<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N1/30,G06K9/00,G06K9/38,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VENTANA MEDICAL SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARSHA, KARL
OTTER, MICHAEL
STEVENS, BENJAMIN
TAFT, JEFFERSON
VENTURA, FRANK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60002757
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Descriptive measurements and quantification of staining artifacts for in situ hybridization
</title>

<abstract>
Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH) have the aim of detecting, localizing and quantifying certain analytes for various diagnostic purposes. The quality of the stains which are analyzed may deviate for various reasons. Therefore, the present invention provides a method and system for assessing the stain quality and for establishing objective criteria for assessing the stain quality for application in the fields of in-situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. In one possible embodiment, the invention comprises the steps of unmixing multi-spectral image data of a tissue specimen to obtain analyte intensity images, each analyte intensity image comprising signals from a single stain, computing metrics based on the analyte intensity images, wherein the metrics are uniformity, distribution and/or dispersion of pixel intensity values in the analyte intensity images and assessing a stain quality of a slide by comparing the computed metrics to pre-determined cutoff values regarding uniformity, distribution and/or dispersion of pixel intensity, wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as acceptable if the computed metrics meet or exceed the pre-determined cutoff values, and wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as unacceptable if the computed metrics do not meet the pre-determined cutoff values. In order to establish objective criteria for assessing stain quality, in one possible embodiment, the method and system includes the step of deriving cut-off values for uniformity, distribution and/or dispersion of pixel intensity by combining the computed metrics based on the analyte intensity images with pre-established data quantifying the stain quality.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer device for objective stain assessment comprising one or more processors and at least one memory, the at least one memory storing non-transitory computer-readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to: unmix multi-spectral image data of a tissue specimen stained in an immunohistochemical assay or an in situ hybridization assay for the presence of a particular biomarker to obtain analyte intensity images, each analyte intensity image comprising signals from a single stain; compute metrics based on the analyte intensity images, wherein the metrics are entropy values and mean-variance ratio values; and assess a stain quality of a slide by comparing the computed metrics to pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as acceptable if the computed metrics meet or exceed the pre-determined cutoff values, and wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as unacceptable if the computed metrics do not meet the pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the mean-variance ratio values are computed by (i) deriving image histograms of intensity values from each of the analyte intensity images, and (ii) calculating a ratio of a measured intensity mode value and a measured intensity variance value from the derived histograms.
2. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the entropy values are computed by (i) deriving image histograms of intensity values from each of the analyte intensity images, and (ii) calculating a probability that a pixel sampled from an analyte intensity image has a particular value in the respective histogram.
3. The computer device of claim 2, wherein the image histograms of intensity values are derived by sorting pixels from each analyte intensity images into bins.
4. The computer device of claim 2, wherein the probability that a pixel sampled from an analyte intensity image has a particular value in the respective histogram is calculated by (i) summing a total number of pixels in all bins of the derived histogram to provide a total number of pixels in that derived histogram; (ii) dividing a number of pixels in each bin of the histogram by the total number of pixels in the histogram to provide a probability of a pixel belonging within a particular bin; (iii) multiplying each probability of a pixel belonging within a particular bin by the logarithm to the base of 2 of the probability to provide a value in bits; and (iv) summing the values in bits.
5. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the stains are selected from the group consisting of quantum dots, fluorophores, enzyme-deposited fluorophores and chromogens.
6. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the analyte intensity images are thresholded prior to computing the entropy values and mean-variance ration values.
7. The computer device of claim 1, further comprising the step of determining whether a scanning instrument or a staining instrument is a root cause of the unacceptable stain quality, wherein the unacceptable stain quality of a slide comprises at least one of an inconsistency in stain size, stain contrast, or stain coverage.
8. A system comprising the computer device of claim 1, and a multispectral imaging system.
9. A computer device for objective stain assessment comprising one or more processors and at least one memory, the at least one memory storing non-transitory computer-readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to: unmix multi-spectral image data of a tissue specimen stained in an immunohistochemical assay or an in situ hybridization assay for the presence of a particular biomarker to obtain analyte intensity images, each analyte intensity image comprising signals from a single stain; compute metrics based on the analyte intensity images, wherein the metrics are a measurement of a variance of pixel values in image histograms derived from the analyte intensity images and mean-variance ratio values; and assess a stain quality of a slide by comparing the computed metrics to pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as acceptable if the computed metrics meet or exceed the pre-determined cutoff values, and wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as unacceptable if the computed metrics do not meet the pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the mean-variance ratio values are computed by (i) deriving image histograms of intensity values from each of the analyte intensity images, and (ii) calculating a ratio of a measured intensity mode value and a measured intensity variance value from the derived histograms.
10. The computer device of claim 9, wherein the stains are selected from the group consisting of quantum dots, fluorophores, enzyme-deposited fluorophores and chromogens.
11. The computer device of claim 9, wherein the analyte intensity images are thresholded prior to computing the measurements of the variance of the pixel values and mean-variance ratio values.
12. The computer device of claim 9, further comprising the step of determining whether a scanning instrument or a staining instrument is a root cause of the unacceptable stain quality, wherein the unacceptable stain quality of a slide comprises at least one of an inconsistency in stain size, stain contrast, or stain coverage.
13. A computer device for objective stain assessment comprising one or more processors and at least one memory, the at least one memory storing non-transitory computer-readable instructions for execution by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to: unmix multi-spectral image data of a tissue specimen stained in an immunohistochemical assay or an in situ hybridization assay for the presence of a particular biomarker to obtain analyte intensity images, each analyte intensity image comprising signals from a single stain; compute metrics based on the analyte intensity images, wherein the metrics are a measurement of a standard deviation of pixel values in image histograms derived from the analyte intensity images and mean-variance ratio values; and assess a stain quality of a slide by comparing the computed metrics to pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as acceptable if the computed metrics meet or exceed the pre-determined cutoff values, and wherein the stain quality of the slide is assessed as unacceptable if the computed metrics do not meet the pre-determined cutoff values, wherein the mean-variance ratio values are computed by (i) deriving image histograms of intensity values from each of the analyte intensity images, and (ii) calculating a ratio of a measured intensity mode value and a measured intensity variance value from the derived histograms.
14. The computer device of claim 13, wherein the stains are selected from the group consisting of quantum dots, fluorophores, enzyme-deposited fluorophores and chromogens.
15. The computer device of claim 13, wherein the analyte intensity images are thresholded prior to computing the measurements of the standard deviation of the pixel values and mean-variance ratio values.
16. The computer device of claim 13, further comprising the step of determining whether a scanning instrument or a staining instrument is a root cause of the unacceptable stain quality, wherein the unacceptable stain quality of a slide comprises at least one of an inconsistency in stain size, stain contrast, or stain coverage.
</claims>
</document>
