<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/10,H02G7/05,H04M3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
RAPPAPORT, HAROLD LEE
WOLNIANSKY, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74045307
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Guided wave coupling system for telephony cable messenger wire and methods for use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one or more embodiments, a coupling system includes a transmitter configured to generate a first signal conveying first data. A coupler is configured to transmit the first signal as a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by at least a portion of a surface of a messenger wire that supports an overhead telephony cable, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire without requiring an electrical return path.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A coupling system comprising: a transmitter configured to generate a first signal conveying first data; a coupler configured to transmit the first signal as a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by at least a portion of a surface of a messenger wire that supports an overhead telephony cable, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the coupler is further configured to generate second signals in response to receiving a second guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire; and a receiver configured to generate second data from the second signals.
2. The coupling system of claim 1 wherein the coupler includes a clip that surrounds a portion of the messenger wire.
3. The coupling system of claim 2 wherein the coupler further includes an outer waveguide that forms a space between a conductive surface of the outer waveguide and the surface of the messenger wire.
4. The coupling system of claim 3 wherein the coupler further includes a feed point that receives the first signal via a cable, the feed point having a first conductor electrically coupled to the clip and a second conductor electrically coupled to the outer waveguide.
5. The coupling system of claim 4 wherein the messenger wire is uninsulated, and wherein the clip is electrically conductive and provides an electrical coupling between the first conductor and the surface of the messenger wire.
6. The coupling system of claim 3 wherein the coupler further includes at least one dielectric spacer that supports the outer waveguide in a fixed position relative to the surface of the messenger wire.
7. The coupling system of claim 3 wherein the coupler further includes a reflector at a first end of the outer waveguide and wherein the outer waveguide forms an aperture at a second end of the outer waveguide that is opposite to the first end, wherein the aperture supports transmission of the first guided electromagnetic wave in a single longitudinal direction along the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire.
8. The coupling system of claim 7 wherein the space between the conductive surface of the outer waveguide and the surface of the messenger wire at the second end is greater than the space between the conductive surface of the outer waveguide and the surface of the messenger wire at the first end.
9. The coupling system of claim 2 wherein the coupler further includes a conductive rod spaced apart from the surface of the messenger wire.
10. The coupling system of claim 9 wherein the coupler further includes a feed point that receives the first signal via a cable, the feed point having a first conductor electrically coupled to the clip and a second conductor electrically coupled to the conductive rod.
11. The coupling system of claim 9 wherein the conductive rod has a rectangular cross section.
12. The coupling system of claim 1 wherein the coupler includes a clip that surrounds a portion of the messenger wire and a portion of the overhead telephony cable.
13. A method comprising: generating, via a transmitter, a first signal conveying first data; transmitting, via a coupler, the first signal as a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by at least a portion of a surface of a messenger wire that supports an overhead telephony cable, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire without requiring an electrical return path; generating, via the coupler, second signals in response to receiving a second guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire; and generating, via a receiver, second data from the second signals.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the coupler includes a clip that surrounds a portion of the messenger wire, an outer waveguide that forms a space between a conductive surface of the outer waveguide and the surface of the messenger wire, and a feed point that receives the first signal via a cable, the feed point having a first conductor electrically coupled to the clip and a second conductor electrically coupled to the outer waveguide.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the messenger wire is uninsulated, and wherein the clip is electrically conductive and provides an electrical coupling between the first conductor and the surface of the messenger wire.
16. The method of claim 13 wherein the coupler includes a clip that surrounds a portion of the messenger wire, a conductive rod spaced apart from the surface of the messenger wire, and a feed point that receives the first signal via a cable, the feed point having a first conductor electrically coupled to the clip and a second conductor electrically coupled to the conductive rod.
17. A coupling system comprising: means for generating a first signal conveying first data; means for transmitting the first signal as a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by at least a portion of a surface of a messenger wire that supports an overhead telephony cable, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire without requiring an electrical return path; means for generating a second signal in response to receiving a second guided electromagnetic wave conveying that is guided by the at least the portion of the surface of the messenger wire; and means for generating second data from the second signal.
18. The coupling system of claim 17, wherein the messenger wire is uninsulated.
19. The coupling system of claim 17, further comprising a clip that surrounds a portion of the messenger wire.
20. The coupling system of claim 17, further comprising an outer waveguide that forms a space between a conductive surface of the outer waveguide and the surface of the messenger wire.
</claims>
</document>
