<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,H04M1/2745,H04M1/27453,H04M3/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, WONJONG
KIM, SOOFEEL
HAM, JINA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67659428
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic apparatus and control method thereof
</title>

<abstract>
A method of controlling an electronic apparatus is provided. The method includes obtaining a name referring to a user of another electronic apparatus in a chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using an artificial intelligence (AI) model trained by an AI algorithm while conducting the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using the electronic apparatus; and storing the obtained name in association with contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus. At least some of the control method of the disclosure may use an AI model trained according to at least one of machine learning, neural network, or deep learning algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: performing a function for communicating with a user of other electronic apparatus; obtaining at least one sentence while communicating with the user of the other electronic apparatus; obtaining information referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in the at least one sentence using an artificial intelligence (AI) model; and storing the obtained information referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in association with contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus; wherein the storing comprises storing the name in association with the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus being obtained more than a predetermined number of times in a chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: performing a call connection based on the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on a user voice for making a call including the obtained name being input.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the obtaining includes: obtaining a second name different from a first name in the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using the AI model based on the first name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus being previously registered in the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus.
4. The method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: providing a message user interface (UI) inquiring whether to perform a call connection to a counterpart of the first name based on a user voice for making a call including the second name being input.
5. The method as claimed in claim 3, further comprising: providing a contact information UI including a phone number of the user of the other electronic apparatus, the first name, and the second name based on a user input for viewing the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus being received.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: providing a chat UI for conducting the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in a chat input through the chat UI using the AI model.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in a voice chat using the AI model while conducting the voice chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus.
8. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: performing a function for communicating with a user of other electronic apparatus; obtaining at least one sentence while communicating with the user of the other electronic apparatus; obtaining information referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in the at least one sentence using an artificial intelligence (AI) model; storing the obtained information referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in association with contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus; storing a frequency of use of the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in a chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus; and where a same name as the name is stored in association with contact information of another user in addition to the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus, and performing a call connection based on contact information of a user having a higher frequency of use of the name based on a user voice for making a call including the name being input.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: transmitting a message including a name at a beginning of the message based on the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on a user voice including the name for transmitting a message being input.
10. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: obtaining schedule information associated with the user of the other electronic apparatus in the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using the AI model; and storing the schedule information in association with the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus.
11. The method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising: providing a reply message UI including the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus based on a user voice requesting information about a chat counterpart associated with the schedule information being input.
12. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: adding a contact record with the user of the other electronic apparatus to a recent contact record; and tagging the name in the contact record with the user of the other electronic apparatus added to the recent contact record.
13. An electronic apparatus comprising: a communicator comprising communication circuitry; a memory configured to store computer executable instructions; and a processor configured, by computer executable instructions, to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain a name referring to a user of another electronic apparatus in a chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using an artificial intelligence (AI) model trained by an AI algorithm while conducting the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus through the communicator, and to store the obtained name in association with contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus in the memory; wherein the processor is further configured to store the obtained name in association with the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on the obtained being obtained more than a predetermined number of times in at least one chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus.
14. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising: a microphone, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to perform a call connection based on the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on a user voice for making a call including the obtained name being input through the microphone.
15. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain a second name different from a first name in the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus using the AI model based on the first name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus being previously registered in the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus.
16. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: a display and a microphone, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to provide a message user interface (UI) inquiring whether to perform a call connection to a counterpart of the first name through the display based on a user voice for making a call including the second name being input through the microphone.
17. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to provide a contact information UI including a phone number of the user of the other electronic apparatus, the first name, and the second name based on a user input for viewing the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus being received.
18. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising: a display, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to provide a chat UI for conducting the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus through the display and to obtain the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in a chat input through the chat UI using the AI model.
19. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 13, further comprising: a microphone, wherein the processor is further configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus in a voice chat using the AI model while conducting the voice chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus through the microphone.
20. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the storing comprises storing the name in association with the contact information of the user of the other electronic apparatus based on the name referring to the user of the other electronic apparatus being obtained more than a predetermined number of times in the chat with the user of the other electronic apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
