<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PROGRESSIVE CASUALITY INSURANCE COMPANY
PROGRESSIVE CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLISS, RICK A.
HARDING, JARROD D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69902460
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Chatbot artificial intelligence
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method simulate a chat-based conversation with a human user. The system and method receive a text message through the chat system that enables a receiver to transmit an automatically generated response in real time during a chat session. The system and method recognize characters in a text message and generates an automatic prediction or classification using a conversational assistant pod that resides in a container. The system and method generate an automatic response and modify computing resources by replacing the conversational assistant pod and the container with a second conversational assistant pod and a second container without interrupting the chat session.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a conversational assistant pod within a container device, a real time transmission of a text message from a sender to a receiver over a distributed network through a chat system that enables the receiver to transmit an automatically generated response in real time during a chat session; executing, by a modeling device, a machine learning model that recognizes characters within the real time transmission of the text message from the sender to the receiver over the distributed network; generating, by the conversational assistant pod within the container device, a prediction or classification automatically of the real time transmission of the text message received from the sender; generating, by the conversational assistant pod within the container device, a text response automatically to the text message received from the sender to the receiver over the distributed network; and modifying an allocation of computing resources based on a predicted failure of the conversational assistant pod by replacing the conversational assistant pod and the container device with a second conversational assistant pod and a second container device running in the same operating state as the conversational assistant pod and the container device during the chat session and before the conversational assistant pod fails without interrupting the real time chat session.
2. The method of claim 1 where the conversational assistant pod within the container device resides on an independent server that is associated with a group of servers that appear to clients as if they were a single server.
3. The method of claim 1 where the container device comprises the conversational assistant pod and one or more libraries.
4. The method of claim 1 where the machine learning model comprises a plurality of decision tree algorithms.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating a chat vector, by a neural network, that represents measurable properties of the text message received from the sender.
6. The method of claim 5 further comprising processing, by the machine learning model, the chat vector.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising processing the prediction or the classification by a supervised learning model.
8. The method of claim 1 where the text message comprises a text and an image and the modeling device recognizes texts and images.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising mapping the prediction or classification text message from a sender to a receiver over the distributed network in metadata associated with the text message.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising transmitting, by an input and output engine, a text message reply automatically in response to the prediction or classification.
11. The method of claim 10 where the act of transmitting, by the input and output engine, a text message reply occurs in real time during the chat session.
12. The method of claim 1 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and container comprises preventing the conversational assistant pod and the container device from receiving a second chat session.
13. The method of claim 1 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and the container device comprises draining traffic from the conversational assistant pod and the container device during the chat session.
14. The method of claim 1 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and container device occurs in response to a predicted failure of the conversational assistant pod and container and the replacement occurs before the conversational assistant pod and the container device fail.
15. The method of claim 1 where the machine learning model comprises a super learner that comprises a plurality of machine learning models.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium encoded with machine-executable instructions, where execution of the machine-executable instructions is for: receiving, by a conversational assistant pod within a container device, a real time transmission of a text message from a sender to a receiver over a distributed network through a chat system that enables the sender to transmit an automatically generated response in real time during a chat session; executing, by a modeling device, a machine learning model that recognizes characters within the real time transmission of the text message from the sender to the receiver over the distributed network; generating, by the conversational assistant pod within the container device, a prediction or classification automatically of the real time transmission of the text message received from the sender; generating, by the conversational assistant pod within the container device, a text response to the text message received from the sender automatically; and modifying an allocation of computing resources based on a predicted failure of the conversational assistant pod by replacing the conversational assistant pod and the container device with a second conversational assistant pod and a second container device running in the same operating state as the conversational assistant pod and the container device during the chat session and before the conversational assistant pod fails without interrupting the real time chat session.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the conversational assistant pod within the container device resides on an independent server that is associated with a group of servers that appear to clients as if they were a single server.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the container device comprises the conversational assistant pod and one or more libraries.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the machine learning model comprise a plurality of decision tree algorithms.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising generating a chat vector, by a neural network, that represents measurable properties of the text message received from the sender.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 20 further comprising processing, by the machine learning model, the chat vector.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 21 further comprising processing the prediction or the classification by a supervised learning model.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the text message comprises a text and an image and the modeling device recognizes texts and images.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising mapping the prediction or classification text message from a sender to a receiver over the distributed network in metadata associated with the text message.
25. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising transmitting, by an input and an output engine, a text message reply automatically in response to the prediction or classification.
26. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 further comprising transmitting, by an output engine, a text message reply in real time during the chat session.
27. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and container comprises preventing the conversational assistant pod and the container device from receiving a second chat session.
28. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and container device comprises draining traffic from the conversational assistant pod and the container device during the chat session.
29. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the act of replacing the conversational assistant pod and the container device occurs in response to a predicted failure of the conversational assistant pod and the container device and the replacement occurs before the conversational assistant pod and the container device fail.
30. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16 where the machine learning model comprises a super learner that comprises a plurality of machine learning models.
</claims>
</document>
