<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/02,G10L15/14,G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JUNG HOE
WOO, KYOUNG GU
JEON, JEHUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61240663
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Voice recognition apparatus and method
</title>

<abstract>
A voice recognition apparatus and corresponding method include a processor configured to calculate a probability distribution corresponding to an intent associated with an utterance of a user by applying pre-stored training data to an input voice signal input based on the utterance. The processor is also configured to select a target feature extractor including either one or both of a training-based feature extractor and a rule-based feature extractor using the calculated probability distribution, and extract a feature associated with the utterance based on the selected target feature extractor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A voice recognition apparatus, comprising: a processor configured to: calculate a probability distribution corresponding to an intent associated with an utterance from a user by applying stored training data to an input voice signal input based on the utterance; obtain a device information corresponding to a point in time at which the utterance is input; adjust a probability value of the intent using the device information; select a target feature extractor including either one or both of a training-based feature extractor and a rule-based feature extractor using the probability distribution corresponding to each intent to which the device information corresponding to the point in time at which the utterance is made; and extract a feature associated with the utterance based on the selected target feature extractor, wherein the processor selects the training-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be complex being included in the intent, wherein the processor selects the rule-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be simple being included in the intent, and wherein the processor is further configured to adjust a probability value of an intent uncorrelated with a first mode to be less than or equal to a threshold value, in response to obtaining the device information operating in a first mode.
2. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to verify an intent having a probability value in a range, and select, as the target feature extractor, one of the training-based feature extractor and the rule-based feature extractor based on the verified intent.
3. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform a task corresponding to the extracted feature; and verify an intent having a probability value in a range; select, as the target feature extractor, a number of feature extractors based on the verified intent; and calculate a likelihood value corresponding to the number of feature extractors.
4. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to select, as the number of feature extractors, either one or both of the training-based feature extractor and the rule-based feature extractor.
5. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to perform a target task corresponding to a feature outputting a highest likelihood value among likelihood values corresponding, respectively, to the number of feature extractors.
6. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 1, wherein the either one or both of a user information and the device information corresponds to a point in time at which the utterance is input, and the processor is further configured to repeat the obtaining of the either one or both of the user information and the device information based on a number of times utterances are input.
7. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain user information; and adjust the probability distribution using a statistical intent distribution, in response to an acquirer obtaining, as the user information, the statistical intent distribution of the user corresponding to a point in time at which the utterance is input.
8. The voice recognition apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to adjust a probability value of an intent uncorrelated with the device information to be less than or equal to a threshold value, in response to obtaining the device information based on a device characteristic.
9. A voice recognition method, comprising: calculating a probability distribution corresponding to an intent associated with an utterance of a user by applying stored training data to an input voice signal input based on the utterance; obtaining a device information corresponding to a point in time at which the utterance is input; adjusting a probability value of the intent using the device information; selecting a target feature extractor including either one or both of a training-based feature extractor and a rule-based feature extractor using the probability distribution corresponding to each intent to which the device information corresponding to the point in time at which the utterance is made; and extracting a feature associated with the utterance based on the selected target feature extractor, wherein the selecting of the target feature extractor comprises selecting the training-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be complex being included in the intent, and selecting the rule-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be simple being included in the intent, wherein, in response to an acquirer obtaining the device information operating in a first mode, adjusting a probability value of an intent uncorrelated with the first mode to be less than or equal to a threshold value.
10. The voice recognition method of claim 9, wherein the selecting of the target feature extractor comprises verifying an intent having a probability value in a range.
11. The voice recognition method of claim 10, further comprising: selecting, as the target feature extractor, a number of feature extractors based on the verified intent; and calculating a likelihood value corresponding to each of the number of feature extractors.
12. The voice recognition method of claim 11, further comprising: performing a task corresponding to a feature outputting a highest likelihood value among likelihood values corresponding, respectively, to the number of feature extractors.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method of claim 11.
14. The voice recognition method of claim 9, wherein the selecting of the target feature extractor comprises selecting one of the training-based feature extractor and the rule-based feature extractor using the calculated probability distribution based on a probability value in a range.
15. An electronic device configured to provide a conversation agent to converse with a user, the electronic device comprising: a sensor configured to obtain an input voice signal input based on an utterance of the user; a processor configured to calculate a probability distribution corresponding to an intent associated with the utterance by applying training data to the input voice signal, obtain a device information corresponding to a point in time at which the utterance is input, adjust a probability value of the intent using the device information, select a target feature extractor based on the probability distribution corresponding to each intent to which the device information corresponding to the point in time at which the utterance is made, extract a feature associated with the utterance based on the selected target feature extractor, and output a result indicative of the extracted feature; and a display configured to output the result, wherein the target feature extractor includes either one or both of a training-based feature extractor and a rule-based feature extractor, wherein the processor selects the training-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be complex being included in the intent, wherein the processor selects the rule-based feature extractor, in response to a feature determined to be simple being included in the intent, and wherein, in response to an acquirer obtaining the device information operating in a first mode, the processor is configured to adjust a probability value of an intent uncorrelated with the first mode to be less than or equal to a threshold value.
16. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to verify an intent having a probability value in a preset range and select, as the target feature extractor, one of the training-based feature extractor and the rule-based feature extractor based on the verified intent.
17. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to select, as the target feature extractor, a number of feature extractors based on a probability value in a preset range, and perform a task corresponding to a feature outputting a highest likelihood value among likelihood values corresponding, respectively, to a preset number of feature extractors.
</claims>
</document>
