<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6869,G01N35/00,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ILLUMINA
</assignee>

<inventors>
APKER, GREGORY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67139444
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting reagent chiller instability and flow cell heater failure in sequencing systems
</title>

<abstract>
The technology disclosed detects chiller system instability that reduces false alerts. A smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data is tested in a predefined time window for periods of stable operation below a predetermined threshold. The technology disclosed predicts that the reagent chiller is unstable if periods of stable temperature operation are less than a predetermined stability measure or if the stable reagent chiller temperature has exceeded a threshold. The technology disclosed detects flow cell heater failure over multiple cycles in a system. A time series of flow cell heater temperature sensor data is tested to determine if a count of points in a recent process cycle were recorded above a threshold. The technology disclosed determines that a flow cell heater is failing if count of points above a threshold in two consecutive cycles is less than a predetermined count.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim as follows:
1. A method of detecting chiller system instability comprising: applying a smoothing function to a time series of chiller temperature sensor data and reducing transient oscillations to produce a smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data; determining that the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data in a predefined time window fails a stable temperature operation criteria in time intervals during which temperature readings in the smoothed time series change by more than a predetermined temperature change rate from interval to interval; and generating a notification of unstableness when the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data fails the stable temperature operation criteria in more than a predetermined percentage of the time intervals over the predefined time window.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the predetermined temperature change rate based on equipment located at multiple locations and operated by multiple independent operators, including: causing configuration of the equipment to log and report temperature sensor readings; collecting logs of the temperature sensor readings; analyzing time series of the temperature sensor readings in instances of the equipment with chiller systems that failed and determining the predetermined temperature change rate; and storing the predetermined temperature change rate for use in the determining of the chiller system to be unstable.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the predetermined temperature change rate based on equipment located at multiple locations and operated by multiple independent operators, including: causing configuration of the equipment to log and report temperature sensor readings; collecting logs of the temperature sensor readings and logs of service following the notifications of the unstableness; analyzing time series of the temperature sensor readings in instances of the equipment with chiller systems that generated the notifications and service following the notifications; determining an update to the predetermined temperature change rate based on the analyzing; and storing the updated predetermined temperature change rate for use in the determining of the chiller system to be unstable.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing logs of the temperature sensor readings from a particular chiller system in a cloud based proactive maintenance analyzer; and performing the applying, the determining and the generating the notification from the cloud based proactive maintenance analyzer.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising filtering notifications for repeat notification and submitting the filtered notifications to a customer relations management system for tracking.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising filtering notifications for repeat notification and submitting the filtered notifications to an operator of sequencer that includes the chiller system.
7. The method of claim 2, further including determining the predetermined temperature change rate based on equipment located at the multiple locations and operated by the multiple independent operators, wherein the multiple locations include at least 50 locations and the multiple independent operators include at least 20 independent operators.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the smoothing function is applied by a derivative filter.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the smoothing function removes transient oscillations that produce a rate of temperature change of 0.125 degrees Celsius per minute or greater.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the time series data represents between four hours and 48 hours of chiller temperature sensor data.
11. The method of claim 1, further including automatically presenting the smoothed chiller system temperature sensor data for review by a user when presenting the system unstableness determination.
12. The method of claim 1, further including comparing average and median temperatures for periods of stable operation and reporting a severity level 1 error when the average and median temperatures vary by more than a first threshold.
13. The method of claim 1, further including comparing average and median temperatures for periods of stable operation and reporting a severity level 2 error when the average and median temperatures vary by more than a second threshold.
14. A system including one or more processors coupled to memory, the memory loaded with computer instructions to detect chiller system instability, the computer instructions, when executed on the one or more processors, implement actions comprising: applying a smoothing function to a time series of chiller temperature sensor data and reducing transient oscillations to produce a smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data; determining that the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data in a predefined time window fails a stable temperature operation criteria in time intervals during which temperature readings in the smoothed time series change by more than a predetermined temperature change rate from interval to interval; and generating a notification of unstableness when the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data fails the stable temperature operation criteria in more than a predetermined percentage of the time intervals over the predefined time window.
15. The system of claim 14, further implementing actions comprising: determining the predetermined temperature change rate based on equipment located at multiple locations and operated by multiple independent operators, including: causing configuration of the equipment to log and report temperature sensor readings; collecting logs of the temperature sensor readings; analyzing time series of the temperature sensor readings in instances of the equipment with chiller systems that failed and determining the predetermined temperature change rate; and storing the predetermined temperature change rate for use in the determining of the chiller system to be unstable.
16. The system of claim 14, further implementing actions comprising: updating the predetermined temperature change rate based on equipment located at multiple locations and operated by multiple independent operators, including: causing configuration of the equipment to log and report temperature sensor readings; collecting logs of the temperature sensor readings and logs of service following the notifications of the unstableness; analyzing time series of the temperature sensor readings in instances of the equipment with chiller systems that generated the notifications and service following the notifications; determining an update to the predetermined temperature change rate based on the analyzing; and storing the updated predetermined temperature change rate for use in the determining of the chiller system to be unstable.
17. The system of claim 14, further implementing actions comprising: accessing logs of the temperature sensor readings from a particular chiller system in a cloud based proactive maintenance analyzer; and performing the applying, the determining and the generating the notification from the cloud based proactive maintenance analyzer.
18. The system of claim 17, further implementing actions comprising: filtering notifications for repeat notification and submitting the filtered notifications to a customer relations management system for tracking.
19. The system of claim 17, further implementing actions comprising: filtering notifications for repeat notification and submitting the filtered notifications to an operator of sequencer that includes the chiller system.
20. A set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media collectively impressed with computer program instructions to detect chiller system instability, the computer program instructions, when executed on one or more processors, implement a method comprising: applying a smoothing function to a time series of chiller temperature sensor data and reducing transient oscillations to produce a smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data; determining that the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data in a predefined time window fails a stable temperature operation criteria in time intervals during which temperature readings in the smoothed time series change by more than a predetermined temperature change rate from interval to interval; and generating a notification of unstableness when the smoothed time series of chiller temperature sensor data fails the stable temperature operation criteria in more than a predetermined percentage of the time intervals over the predefined time window.
21. The set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the smoothing function is applied by a derivative filter.
22. The set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 20, wherein applying the smoothing function removes transitory oscillations that produce a rate of temperature change of 0.125 degrees Celsius per minute or greater.
23. The set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 20, wherein the time series data represents between four hours and 48 hours of chiller temperature sensor data.
24. The set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 20, implementing the method further comprising: comparing average and median temperatures for periods of stable operation and reporting a missed failure when the average and median temperatures vary by more than a first threshold.
25. The set of one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 20, implementing the method further comprising: comparing average and median temperatures for periods of stable operation and reporting a false alert when the average and median temperatures vary by more than a second threshold.
</claims>
</document>
