<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08,G08G1/01,G08G1/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
INSTITUTO SUPERIOR TECNICO
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOURA; JOSE M. F.
TOROPOV, EVGENY
COSTEIRA, JOÃO PAULO
ZHANG, SHANGHANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63712733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Deep learning methods for estimating density and/or flow of objects, and related methods and software
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and software utilizing artificial neural networks (ANNs) to estimate density and/or flow (speed) of objects in one or more scenes each captured in one or more images. In some embodiments, the ANNs and their training configured to provide reliable estimates despite one or more challenges that include but are not limited to, low-resolution images, low framerate image acquisition, high rates of object occlusions, large camera perspective, widely varying lighting conditions, and widely varying weather conditions. In some embodiments, fully convolutional networks (FCNs) are used in the ANNs. In some embodiments, a long short-term memory network (LSTM) is used with an FCN. In such embodiments, the LSTM can be connected to the FCN in a residual learning manner or in a direct connected manner. Also disclosed are methods of generating training images for training an ANN-based estimating algorithm that make training of the estimating algorithm less costly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing traffic density and/or traffic flow data to an intelligent traffic system, wherein the traffic density and/or traffic flow data is for a plurality of regions of a roadway network, each region having associated therewith a traffic camera that captures at least one corresponding traffic image of the corresponding region, the method comprising: automatically estimating, locally to each traffic camera, traffic density and/or traffic flow in the corresponding region of the roadway network using the at least one corresponding traffic image, the estimating for each corresponding region comprising: training an artificial neural network (ANN)-based density estimation algorithm using training annotated images, wherein the ANN-based density estimation algorithm is configured, when trained, to process one or more input images to automatically determine a traffic density and/or traffic flow for traffic present in the input image(s); receiving the at least one corresponding traffic image; and following the training of the ANN-based density estimation algorithm, causing the ANN-based density estimation algorithm to process the at least one corresponding traffic image to determine the traffic density and/or traffic flow for the corresponding region; and transmitting from local to each traffic camera to the intelligent traffic system traffic density and/or traffic flow data corresponding to the traffic density and/or the traffic flow in the corresponding region of the roadway network.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising, along with the transmitting of the traffic density and/or traffic flow, transmitting locational information for the corresponding region of the roadway network.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, and each of the training images being a traffic image containing a plurality of vehicle pixel-wise masks, wherein the vehicle pixel-wise masks have been placed in the traffic images from the traffic cameras using a segmentator operating on the traffic images from the traffic camera that have been annotated with the bounding boxes.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the annotated real images have be automatically annotated by a detector.
5. The method according to claim 3, further comprising training the segmentator using images rendered from 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing types.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising: receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, each of the training images being a hybrid image having a realistic background of the region of the roadway and containing a plurality of rendered vehicles of differing types overlaid onto the background, wherein the rendered vehicles: are based on 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing vehicle types; have been placed in the hybrid image using realistic perspectives and realistic occlusions based on the camera perspective; and are automatically labeled for categorization based on the 3D CAD models.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm is configured to determine traffic flow from a time-sequenced set of traffic images, and the method further comprises providing traffic flow data to the intelligent traffic system, wherein the providing of the traffic flow data includes: receiving the time-sequenced set of traffic images; causing the ANN-based density estimation algorithm to process the set of traffic images to determine the traffic flow for the set of traffic images; and transmitting to the intelligent traffic system traffic flow data corresponding to the traffic flow.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm includes a fully convolutional network (FCN).
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm includes a long short-term memory network (LSTM).
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the LSTM is directly connected to the FCN.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the LSTM is connected to the FCN in a residual learning manner.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, and each of the training images being a traffic image containing a plurality of vehicle pixel-wise masks, wherein the vehicle pixel-wise masks have been placed in the traffic images from the traffic cameras using a segmentator operating on the traffic images from the traffic camera that have been annotated with the bounding boxes.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the annotated real images have been automatically annotated by a detector.
14. The method according to claim 12, further comprising training the segmentator using images rendered from 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing types.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising: receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, each of the training images being a hybrid image having a realistic background of the region of the roadway and containing a plurality of rendered vehicles of differing types overlaid onto the background, wherein the rendered vehicles: are based on 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing vehicle types; have been placed in the hybrid image using realistic perspectives and realistic occlusions based on the camera perspective.
16. The method according to claim 7, wherein the ANN-based algorithm further includes a multi-task network connected to the FCN.
17. A machine-readable storage medium containing machine-executable instructions for performing a method of providing traffic density and/or traffic flow data to an intelligent traffic system, wherein the traffic density and/or traffic flow data is for a plurality of regions of a roadway network, each region having associated therewith a traffic camera that captures at least one corresponding traffic image of the corresponding region, the method comprising: automatically estimating, locally to each traffic camera, traffic density and/or traffic flow in the corresponding region of the roadway network using the at least one corresponding traffic image, the estimating for each corresponding region comprising: training an artificial neural network (ANN)-based density estimation algorithm using training annotated images, wherein the ANN-based density estimation algorithm is configured, when trained, to process one or more input images to automatically determine a traffic density and/or traffic flow for traffic present in the input image(s); receiving the at least one corresponding traffic image; and following the training of the ANN-based density estimation algorithm, causing the ANN-based density estimation algorithm to process the at least one corresponding traffic image to determine the traffic density and/or traffic flow for the corresponding region; and transmitting from local to each traffic camera to the intelligent traffic system traffic density and/or traffic flow data corresponding to the traffic density and/or the traffic flow in the corresponding region of the roadway network.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises, along with the transmitting of the traffic density and/or traffic flow, transmitting locational information for the corresponding region of the roadway network.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective and the method further comprises receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, and each of the training images being a traffic image containing a plurality of vehicle pixel-wise masks, wherein the vehicle pixel-wise masks have been placed in the traffic images from the traffic cameras using a segmentator operating on the traffic images from the traffic camera that have been annotated with the bounding boxes.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the annotated real images have be automatically annotated by a detector.
21. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, where the method further comprises training the segmentator using images rendered from 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing types.
22. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective and the method further comprises: receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, each of the training images being a hybrid image having a realistic background of the region of the roadway and containing a plurality of rendered vehicles of differing types overlaid onto the background, wherein the rendered vehicles: are based on 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing vehicle types; have been placed in the hybrid image using realistic perspectives and realistic occlusions based on the camera perspective; and are automatically labeled for categorization based on the 3D CAD models.
23. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm is configured to determine traffic flow from a time-sequenced set of traffic images, and the method further comprises providing traffic flow data to the intelligent traffic system, wherein the providing of the traffic flow data includes: receiving the time-sequenced set of traffic images; causing the ANN-based density estimation algorithm to process the set of traffic images to determine the traffic flow for the set of traffic images; and transmitting to the intelligent traffic system traffic flow data corresponding to the traffic flow.
24. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm includes a fully convolutional network (FCN).
25. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the ANN-based estimating algorithm includes a long short-term memory network (LSTM).
26. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the LSTM is directly connected to the FCN.
27. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 25, wherein the LSTM is connected to the FCN in a residual learning manner.
28. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 27, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, and each of the training images being a traffic image containing a plurality of vehicle pixel-wise masks, wherein the vehicle pixel-wise masks have been placed in the traffic images from the traffic cameras using a segmentator operating on the traffic images from the traffic camera that have been annotated with the bounding boxes.
29. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the annotated real images have been automatically annotated by a detector.
30. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the method further comprises training the segmentator using images rendered from 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing types.
31. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 27, wherein each traffic camera has a camera perspective, the method further comprising: receiving the training images, wherein the training images having a training perspective substantially the same as the camera perspective of the traffic camera, each of the training images being a hybrid image having a realistic background of the region of the roadway and containing a plurality of rendered vehicles of differing types overlaid onto the background, wherein the rendered vehicles: are based on 3D CAD models of differing vehicles of differing vehicle types; have been placed in the hybrid image using realistic perspectives and realistic occlusions based on the camera perspective.
32. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the ANN-based algorithm further includes a multi-task network connected to the FCN.
</claims>
</document>
