<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F119/12,G06F30/392,G06F30/394,G06F30/398,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAEK SEUNG-WEON
SHIN, BYUNG CHUL
KANG, JAE HYUN
PARK, KI HEUNG
KIM, JAE HWAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726388
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods of fabricating semiconductor devices, and related layout design systems
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of fabricating semiconductor devices are provided. A method of fabricating a semiconductor device includes selecting a target pattern from a target design layout. The target pattern includes: a target net; a target via that is electrically connected to the target net; and a crossing net that is electrically connected to the target via on a different level from the target net. The method includes analyzing a peripheral pattern that is adjacent the target net. Moreover, the method includes generating a redundant net, and a redundant via that electrically connects the redundant net and the crossing net. Related layout design systems are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of fabricating a semiconductor device, the method comprising: providing a database comprising design information and process information of the semiconductor device; generating a prediction model by performing machine learning using a feature set that is based on the database, wherein the prediction model predicts a bad pattern of the semiconductor device; selecting a target pattern from a target design layout using the prediction model, wherein the target pattern comprises: a target net; a target via that is electrically connected to the target net; and a crossing net that is electrically connected to the target via on a different level from the target net; analyzing a peripheral pattern that is adjacent the target net; generating a redundant net that intersects the crossing net on the same level as the target net, and a redundant via that electrically connects the redundant net and the crossing net, based on the analyzing the peripheral pattern; and checking the redundant net and the redundant via for whether the redundant net and the redundant via satisfy a predetermined design rule, wherein the feature set comprises a first feature set comprising features of a normal pattern, and a second feature set comprising features of the bad pattern.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the peripheral pattern comprises a first peripheral net and a second peripheral net, wherein the target net is between the first peripheral net and the second peripheral net, before the generating the redundant net and the redundant via, and wherein the analyzing the peripheral pattern comprises measuring: a first distance between the target net and the first peripheral net; and a second distance between the target net and the second peripheral net.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the peripheral pattern comprises a first peripheral net and a second peripheral net, wherein the first peripheral net is between the target net and the second peripheral net, and wherein the analyzing the peripheral pattern comprises measuring a distance between the first peripheral net and the second peripheral net.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the redundant net is wider, in a direction, than the target net, wherein the redundant via is wider, in the direction, than the target via, and wherein the generating the redundant net and the redundant via comprises replacing the target net and the target via with the redundant net and the redundant via, respectively.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the peripheral pattern comprises a peripheral net that is spaced apart from the target net on the same level as the target net, and wherein the peripheral net is between the redundant net and the target net.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: performing a timing hurt test on a wiring path that passes through the redundant net, after the generating the redundant net and the redundant via.
7. A method of fabricating a semiconductor device, the method comprising: providing a target design layout of the semiconductor device; selecting a target pattern from the target design layout, wherein the target pattern comprises: a target net that extends in a first direction; a first target via that is electrically connected to the target net; and a first crossing net that is electrically connected to the first target via and extends in a second direction that intersects the first direction on a different level from the target net; analyzing a peripheral pattern that is adjacent the target net, wherein the peripheral pattern comprises a first peripheral net and a second peripheral net that extend in the first direction on the same level as the target net and are spaced apart from each other in the second direction; generating a redundant net that extends in the first direction on the same level as the target net, between the first peripheral net and the second peripheral net; generating a first redundant via that electrically connects the redundant net and the first crossing net; and building the semiconductor device after determining that the redundant net and the first redundant via satisfy a predetermined design rule.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the target net is between the first peripheral net and the second peripheral net, before the generating the redundant net, and wherein the analyzing the peripheral pattern comprises measuring: a first distance between the target net and the first peripheral net; and a second distance between the target net and the second peripheral net.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the redundant net is wider, in the second direction, than the target net, wherein the generating the redundant net comprises replacing the target net with the redundant net, wherein the first redundant via is wider, in the second direction, than the first target via, and wherein the generating the first redundant via comprises replacing the first target via with the first redundant via.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the first peripheral net is between the target net and the second peripheral net, and wherein the analyzing the peripheral pattern comprises measuring a distance between the first peripheral net and the second peripheral net.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the target pattern further comprises: a second target via that is electrically connected to the target net; and a second crossing net that extends in the second direction on the different level, or on another different level, from the target net and is electrically connected to the second target via.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating a second redundant via that electrically connects the redundant net and the second crossing net.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein a first distance between the first redundant via and the second redundant via is substantially equal to a second distance between the first target via and the second target via.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the first crossing net and the second crossing net are on different respective levels.
15. A method of fabricating a semiconductor device, the method comprising: providing a target design layout of the semiconductor device; selecting a target pattern from the target design layout, wherein the target pattern comprises: a target net that extends in a first direction; a first target via that is electrically connected to the target net; a second target via that is spaced apart from the first target via and is electrically connected to the target net; a first crossing net that is electrically connected to the first target via and extends in a second direction that intersects the first direction on a different level from the target net; and a second crossing net that is electrically connected to the second target via and extends in the second direction on the different level, or on another different level, from the target net; analyzing a peripheral pattern that is adjacent the target net, wherein the peripheral pattern comprises a first peripheral net that extends in the first direction on the same level as the target net and is spaced apart from the target net in the second direction; generating a first redundant net that extends in the first direction on the same level as the target net, wherein the first peripheral net is between the target net and the first redundant net; generating a first redundant via that electrically connects the first redundant net and the first crossing net, and a second redundant via that electrically connects the first redundant net and the second crossing net; and building the semiconductor device after determining that the first redundant net and the first redundant via satisfy a predetermined design rule.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein a first length of a first wiring path that passes through the target net and extends from the first crossing net to the second crossing net is substantially equal to a second length of a second wiring path that passes through the first redundant net and extends from the first crossing net to the second crossing net.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating an extension net that extends from the second crossing net along the second direction, wherein the extension net is directly connected to the second redundant via.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating a second redundant net that is wider, in the second direction, than the target net; and replacing the target net with the second redundant net.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the first redundant net is wider, in the second direction, than the target net, wherein the first redundant via is wider, in the second direction, than the first target via, and wherein the first redundant via is aligned, in the second direction, with the first target via.
</claims>
</document>
