<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03M13/11,H03M13/29,H03M13/35,H04B7/0408,H04B7/06,H04L1/00,H04L1/16,H04W88/02,H04W88/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60002078
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Forward error correction code selection in wireless systems
</title>

<abstract>
Selection of a forward error correction (FEC) code based on a wireless network characteristic is disclosed. The selection can facilitate changing from a first FEC code to a second FEC code in response to the wireless network characteristic changing. The selection can facilitate selection of FEC codes for user equipments (UEs) of a plurality of UEs, wherein the FEC codes can be the same or different FEC codes and can be employed among the plurality of UEs contemporaneously. Selected FEC codes can be applied to uplink and/or downlink channels. An embodiment can select an FEC code based on UE location. An embodiment can select an FEC code based on UE proximity to another device. An embodiment can select an FEC code based on channel signal to noise ratio. An embodiment can select an FEC code based on UE capability. An embodiment can determine a FEC code selection model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to obtaining a first characteristic of a wireless network comprising network devices, determining a first low density parity check forward error correcting code based on the first characteristic; and employing the first low density parity check forward error correcting code in a first communication between a first user equipment and a radio access network device of the network devices, wherein the employing the first low density parity check forward error correcting code comprises altering the first communication to stop carrying error correcting bits according to a second low density parity check forward error correcting code and to start carrying the error correcting bits according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the second low density parity check forward error correcting code is communicated via a first communication channel between the first user equipment and the radio access network device.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is communicated via the first communication channel between the first user equipment and the radio access network device.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is communicated via a second communication channel between the first user equipment and the radio access network device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic is a coding rate.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the coding rate is indicated in a modulation and coding scheme table.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic is a payload size of data to be carried between the first user equipment and the radio access network device according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining a second characteristic of the wireless network comprising the network devices; determining a third forward error correcting code based on the second characteristic; and employing the third forward error correcting code in a second communication between a second user equipment and the radio access network device, wherein the first forward error correcting code and the third forward error correcting code are different forward error correcting codes, and wherein the employing the first forward error correcting code and the employing the third forward error correcting code occur concurrently.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first communication is a downlink communication.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first communication is an uplink communication.
11. A method, comprising: determining, by a device of network devices of a wireless network, a first low density parity check forward error correcting code based on a first characteristic of the network devices; and applying, by the eNodeB device, the first low density parity check forward error correcting code to a first communication channel between a first user equipment and the eNodeB device, wherein the applying comprises altering the first communication channel to carrying error correcting bits using the first low density parity check forward error correcting code in lieu of carrying the error correcting bits using a second low density parity check forward error correcting code.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the device, a third low density parity check forward error correcting code based on a second characteristic of the network devices; and applying, by the device, the third low density parity check forward error correcting code to a second communication channel between a second user equipment and the device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first low density parity check forward error correcting code and the third low density parity check forward error correcting code are different forward low density parity check error correcting codes.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is based on a coding rate indicated in a modulation and coding scheme table.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the device is an eNodeB device, wherein the determining the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is based on a payload size of data to be carried between the first user equipment and the eNodeB device according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to determining a first characteristic of a wireless network, selecting a first low density parity check forward error correcting code based on the first characteristic; and including first error correcting bits according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code on a first communication channel between a first user equipment and a radio access network device of the wireless network, wherein the including the first error correcting bits comprises altering the first communication channel to stop carrying second error correcting bits according to a second low density parity check forward error correcting code and to start carrying the first error correcting bits according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to determining a second characteristic of the wireless network, selecting a third low density parity check forward error correcting code based on the second characteristic; and including third error correcting bits according to the third low density parity check forward error correcting code on a second communication channel between a second user equipment and the radio access network device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is different from the third low density parity check forward error correcting code.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the selecting the first low density parity check forward error correcting code is based on a coding rate indicated in a modulation and coding scheme table and a payload size of data to be carried between the first user equipment and the radio access network device according to the first low density parity check forward error correcting code.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first communication channel is selected from a group of channels comprising an uplink communication channel and a downlink communication channel.
</claims>
</document>
