<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F3/16,G06F40/211,G06F40/253,G10L13/08,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
EIDEM, LAURA
JACOBSON, ALEX
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61009107
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modification of audio-based computer program output
</title>

<abstract>
Modifying computer program output in a voice or non-text input activated environment is provided. A system can receive audio signals detected by a microphone of a device. The system can parse the audio signal to identify a computer program to invoke. The computer program can identify a dialog data structure. The system can modify the identified dialog data structure to include a content item. The system can provide the modified dialog data structure to a computing device for presentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to modify computer program output, comprising: a data processing system having one or more processors and memory to: receive, from a computing device, a digital file corresponding to a first acoustic signal carrying voice content detected by a microphone of the computing device; select, responsive to the voice content of the digital file, a computer program comprising a chatbot from a plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; execute the chatbot selected based on the voice content of the digital file; identify, via the chatbot based on the voice content of the digital file, a dialog data structure comprising a placeholder field; generate, responsive to identification of the placeholder field in the dialog data structure, a request for content; select, via a content selection process responsive to the request, a content item for insertion into the placeholder field of the dialog data structure; and provide, to the chatbot, the content item selected via the content selection process to cause the computing device to perform to generate a second acoustic signal corresponding to the dialog data structure modified with the content item, wherein the computing device plays the content item with an acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device plays the content item with the acoustic fingerprint matching the acoustic fingerprint the chatbot.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the content item comprises audio.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the content item comprises a parameterized format configured for a parametrically driven text to speech technique, and the computing device executes the parametrically driven text to speech technique to play the content item in the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
5. The system of claim 1, comprising the data processing system to: select, responsive to a second acoustic signal, a second chatbot from the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; select a second content item for insertion into a second placeholder field in a second dialog data structure to be provided via the second chatbot; and provide the second content item to the computing device to cause the computing device to play the second content item with a second acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the second chatbot, wherein the second acoustic fingerprint is different from the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
6. The system of claim 1, comprising the data processing system to: select, responsive to a second acoustic signal, a second chatbot from the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; select the content item for insertion into a second placeholder field in a second dialog data structure to be provided via the second chatbot; and provide the content item to the computing device to cause the computing device to play the content item with a second acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the second chatbot, wherein the second acoustic fingerprint is different from the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot, and the content item presented via the second chatbot matches the content item presented via the chatbot.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots is associated with a different acoustic fingerprint.
8. The system of claim 1, comprising the data processing system to: use a natural language processing technique to process the dialog data structure and identify a portion of the dialog data structure at which to insert the placeholder field; and insert the placeholder field at the portion of the dialog data structure, wherein the placeholder field is configured for content in a parametrically driven text to speech technique format.
9. The system of claim 1, comprising the data processing system to: generate a second dialog data structure for the chatbot comprising a second placeholder field; compare the second placeholder field with the placeholder field; determine, based on the comparison, to generate a second request for second content; and select a second content item for insertion into the second placeholder field of the second dialog data structure, wherein the computing device plays the second content with the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
10. The system of claim 1, comprising: the data processing system to select, via the content selection process, the content item for insertion based on profile information linked to the computing device.
11. The system of claim 1, comprising: the data processing system to select, via the content selection process, the content item for insertion based on a plurality of digital files corresponding to the computing device.
12. A method of modifying computer program output, comprising: receiving, by a data processing system having one or more processors and memory, from a computing device, a digital file corresponding to a first acoustic signal carrying voice content detected by a microphone of the computing device; selecting, by the data processing system responsive to the voice content of the digital file, a computer program comprising a chatbot from a plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; executing, by the data processing system, the chatbot selected based on the voice content of the digital file; identifying, by the data processing system via the chatbot based on the voice content of the digital file, a dialog data structure comprising a placeholder field; generating, by the data processing system responsive to identification of the placeholder field in the dialog data structure, a request for content; selecting, by the data processing system via a content selection process responsive to the request, a content item for insertion into the placeholder field of the dialog data structure; and providing, by the data processing system to the chatbot, the content item selected via the content selection process to cause the computing device to perform to generate a second acoustic signal corresponding to the dialog data structure modified with the content item, wherein the computing device plays the content item with an acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the computing device plays the content item with the acoustic fingerprint matching the acoustic fingerprint the chatbot.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the content item comprises audio.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the content item comprises a parameterized format configured for a parametrically driven text to speech technique, and the computing device executes the parametrically driven text to speech technique to play the content item in the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
16. The method of claim 12, comprising: selecting, responsive to a second acoustic signal, a second chatbot from the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; selecting a second content item for insertion into a second placeholder field in a second dialog data structure to be provided via the second chatbot; and providing the second content item to the computing device to cause the computing device to play the second content item with a second acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the second chatbot, wherein the second acoustic fingerprint is different from the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
17. The method of claim 12, comprising the data processing system to: selecting, responsive to a second acoustic signal, a second chatbot from the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots; selecting the content item for insertion into a second placeholder field in a second dialog data structure to be provided via the second chatbot; and providing the content item to the computing device to cause the computing device to play the content item with a second acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the second chatbot, wherein the second acoustic fingerprint is different from the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot, and the content item presented via the second chatbot matches the content item presented via the chatbot.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of computer programs comprising chatbots is associated with a different acoustic fingerprint.
19. The method of claim 12, comprising: using a natural language processing technique to process the dialog data structure and identify a portion of the dialog data structure at which to insert the placeholder field; and inserting the placeholder field at the portion of the dialog data structure, wherein the placeholder field is configured for content in a parametrically driven text to speech technique format.
20. The method of claim 12, comprising: generating a second dialog data structure for the chatbot comprising a second placeholder field; comparing the second placeholder field with the placeholder field; determining, based on the comparison, to generate a second request for second content; and selecting a second content item for insertion into the second placeholder field of the second dialog data structure, wherein the computing device plays the second content with the acoustic fingerprint corresponding to the chatbot.
</claims>
</document>
