<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/10,G06F21/31,G06F21/60,H04L29/06,H04N21/432,H04N21/4335,H04N21/436,H04N21/4627
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, MICHAEL, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
48226948
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for processing user rights
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for processing entitlement rights are disclosed. Content may be stored. A request for playback of the content may be received. A right of a user to view the content may be determined.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: storing content, wherein a user of a user device has a user right to consume the content at a first time when the content is stored; receiving, by a computing device from the user device, a request for playback of the content at a second time; determining, by the computing device, at the second time, that the user does not have the user right to consume the content at the second time; determining, by the computing device, at the second time, that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, independent of the user right to consume the content at the second time; and providing, based on the determination that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, the content to the user device at the second time, wherein the content is configured for output by the user device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the content is stored on a network device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the content is stored on the user device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing the content from storage after a predetermined time period from the first time when the content is stored.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, from the user device, a request to store the content.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the user right to consume the content comprises subscription information.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising retrieving, by the computing device, user rights data comprising the user right to consume the content.
8. A system comprising: a first computing device, configured to store content, wherein a user of a user device has a user right to consume the content at a first time when the content is stored; and a second computing device, configured to: receive, from the user device, a request for playback of the content at a second time, determine, at the second time, that the user does not have the user right to consume the content at the second time, and determine, at the second time, that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, independent of the user right to consume the content at the second time, wherein the first computing device is further configured to provide the content to the user device at the second time based on the determination that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, wherein the content is configured for output by the user device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first computing device comprises a network device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the first computing device comprises the user device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the first computing device is further configured to remove the content from storage after a predetermined time period from the first time when the content is stored.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first computing device or the second computing device is further configured to receive, from the user device, a request to store the content.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the user right to consume the content comprises subscription information.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the second computing device is further configured to retrieve user rights data comprising the user right to consume the content.
15. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: cause content to be stored, wherein a user of a user device has a user right to consume the content at a first time when the content is stored, receive, from the user device, a request for playback of the content at a second time, determine at the second time, that the user does not have the user right to consume the content at the second time, determine at the second time, that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, independent of the user right to consume the content at the second time, and cause, based on the determination that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, the content to be provided to the user device at the second time, wherein the content is configured for output by the user device.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the content is stored on a network device.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the content is stored on the user device.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to cause removal of the content from storage after a predetermined time period from the first time when the content is stored.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to receive, from the user device, a request to store the content.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the user right to consume the content comprises subscription information.
21. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to retrieve user rights data comprising the user right to consume the content.
22. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: store content, wherein a user of a user device has a user right to consume the content at a first time when the content is stored; receive, from the user device, a request for playback of the content at a second time; determine, at the second time, that the user does not have the user right to consume the content at the second time; determine, at the second time, that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, independent of the user right to consume the content at the second time; and provide, based on the determination that the user had the user right to consume the content at the first time, the content to the user device at the second time, wherein the content is configured for output by the user device.
23. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the content is stored on a network device.
24. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the content is stored on the user device.
25. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to remove the content from storage after a predetermined time period from the first time when the content is stored.
26. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive, from the user device, a request to store the content.
27. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the user right to consume the content comprises subscription information.
28. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 22, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to retrieve user rights data comprising the user right to consume the content.
</claims>
</document>
