<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/10,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Motional AD LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
CENSI, ANDREA
CHANG, HSUN-HSIEN
FRAZZOLI, EMILIO
PENDLETON, SCOTT D.
SLUTSKYY, KOSTYANTYN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65631060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Planning autonomous motion
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, planning a motion of a machine having moving capabilities is based on strategic guidelines derived from various basic principles, such as laws, ethics, preferences, driving experiences, and road environments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server comprising: a storage for instructions; a network interface in communication with a machine having one or more autonomous motion capabilities; and a processor to operate according to the instructions stored in the storage to (1) analyze data associated with basic principles applicable to one or more motion actions of the machine, and (2) generate logical expressions to plan motion actions for the machine, wherein the logical expressions are classified into priority groups.
2. The server of claim 1, in which a basic principle comprises a law, a regulation, a principle of ethics, a motion environment, an operation experience, a previously inferred logical expression, or a preference, or a combination of two or more of them.
3. The server of claim 1, in which analyzing the data comprises parsing one or more texts describing a basic principle.
4. The server of claim 1, in which analyzing the data comprises inferring one or more conditions and one or more proper actions associated with the one or more conditions.
5. The server of claim 1, in which analyzing the data comprises tracking one or more objects in sensor data and inferring a logical relation between two objects, or between two events, or between two times, or combinations of them.
6. The server of claim 1, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the priority groups into a hierarchy, the hierarchy comprising information about prioritization between two priority groups.
7. The server of claim 6, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the priority groups in a partial order or in a strict order.
8. The server of claim 6, in which logical expressions belonging to a priority group are not ordered.
9. The server of claim 1, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the logical expressions into a hierarchy, the hierarchy comprising information about prioritization between two logical expressions.
10. The server of claim 9, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the logical expressions in a partial order or in a strict order.
11. The server of claim 1, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises identifying one or more factors associated with a logical expression.
12. The server of claim 11, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises determining values of factors.
13. The server of claim 11, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises identifying missing factors using a linking process.
14. The server of claim 11, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises linking two logical expressions based on a common factor.
15. The server of claim 11, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises linking two logical expressions based on a common condition.
16. The server of claim 11, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises linking two logical expressions based on a common proper action.
17. The server of claim 1, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises statistically evaluating occurrences of conditions, proper actions, and deviations from proper actions.
18. The server of claim 17, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises adjusting one or more logical expressions based on the occurrences.
19. The server of claim 1, in which planning motion actions comprises identifying candidate trajectories.
20. The server of claim 1, in which planning motion actions comprises specifying sequences of the motion actions along a trajectory.
21. The server of claim 1, in which planning motion actions comprises evaluating a priority level of a motion action of the machine.
22. The server of claim 1, in which planning motion actions comprises evaluating a motion action of the machine complying with a proper action of a logical expression.
23. The server of claim 1, in which planning motion actions comprises evaluating a deviation metric of a motion action of the machine deviating from a proper action of a logical expression.
24. The server of claim 23, in which a deviation metric is evaluated along an entire trajectory or a trajectory component.
25. The server of claim 23, in which a deviation metric comprises energy consumption by the machine.
26. The server of claim 23, in which a deviation metric comprises a financial loss by the machine.
27. The server of claim 1, in which the processor generates a report of motion actions of the machine.
28. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises identifying a basic principle guiding a motion action.
29. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises identifying an overwriting principle associated with a motion action.
30. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises recording trajectories and motion actions.
31. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises recording decisions on planning the motion actions for the machine.
32. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises recording logical expressions used to plan the motion actions for the machine.
33. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises recording deviation metrics of a motion action of the machine.
34. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises detecting a risky event.
35. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises generating an alert regarding a risky event.
36. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises transmitting the report to a remote computing device.
37. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises detecting a deviation away from a logical expression or away from a basic principle.
38. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises determining a liability.
39. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises integrating the report to the data associated with basic principles.
40. The server of claim 27, in which generating a report comprises using the report to adjust processes of generating logical expressions.
41. A method performed by a machine having one or more autonomous motion capabilities, the method comprising: analyzing, using one or more processors, data associated with basic principles applicable to one or more motion actions of the machine; and generating, using the one or more processors, logical expressions to plan motion actions for the machine, wherein the logical expressions are classified into priority groups.
42. The method of claim 41, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the priority groups into a hierarchy, the hierarchy comprising information about prioritization between two priority groups.
43. The method of claim 42, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the priority groups in a partial order or in a strict order.
44. The method of claim 42, in which logical expressions belonging to a priority group are not ordered.
45. The method of claim 41, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the logical expressions into a hierarchy, the hierarchy comprising information about prioritization between two logical expressions.
46. The method of claim 45, in which generating logical expressions associated with the basic principles comprises organizing the logical expressions in a partial order or in a strict order.
</claims>
</document>
