<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JACKSON JAMES E.
PRATT, JAMES H.
ZAVESKY, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58523343
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Telemedicine application of video analysis and motion augmentation
</title>

<abstract>
A system for providing video analysis and motion augmentation, particularly in the context of telemedicine applications is disclosed. In particular, the system may utilize cameras and other devices to detect macro and micro changes and movements of a being so as to assist in the detection of an anomaly associated with the being. After detecting the anomaly based on the detected macro and micro changes and movements, the system may transmit an alert identifying the anomaly and formulate a proposed request for interaction with the being. The request for interaction may be transmitted to the being, and information obtained in response to the request for interaction may be utilized by the system to assist in the determination of a diagnosis of a condition of the being. The process may be repeated as necessary until the diagnosis is confirmed and enough information associated with the being is obtained.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores instructions; and a processor that executes the instructions to perform operations, the operations comprising: capturing first media content of a being within a range of a first camera monitoring the being; analyzing the first media content to detect a first change associated with the being, wherein the first change associated with the being comprises a first movement of the being, a first change in a condition of the being, or a combination thereof; detecting an anomaly associated with the being based on comparing the first change associated with the being to aggregated data for a plurality of beings including the being; determining, based on the anomaly associated with the being, a proposed interaction with the being; transmitting the proposed interaction to a device of the being; determining, based on the anomaly, the aggregated data, and on information obtained in response to transmitting the proposed interaction, a diagnosis associated with the being; and confirming the diagnosis based on other media content captured by a second camera that has a first sampling rate that is different from a second sampling rate of the first camera, wherein the second camera having the first sampling rate is configured to capture different motion than the first camera having the second sampling rate, wherein the different motion captured by the second camera includes a second movement of the being that the first camera is unable to detect.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting a signal to adjust a position of the first camera to capture second media content of the being, wherein the signal is transmitted with the proposed interaction.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise analyzing the second media content to detect a second change associated with the being, and wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the diagnosis based on analysis of the first change, the second change, the aggregated data, and the anomaly.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise detecting the first change associated with the being based on analyzing the first media content in combination with infrared imaging content of the being, thermal imaging content of the being, or a combination thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise anonymizing data associated with the being, wherein the data associated with the being comprises the anomaly, the first media content, and the diagnosis.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further generating an alert after detecting the anomaly.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting a signal instructing the being to adjust a body part after detecting an anomaly associated with the being, wherein the signal is transmitted to the device of the being.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise capturing second media content of the being after the being adjusts the body part in response to the signal.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise confirming whether the anomaly exists based on analyzing the second media content of the being.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the diagnosis associated with the being if the anomaly is not confirmed to exist.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting a sampling rate associated with capturing the first media content to correspond with a type of the first change to be detected.
12. A method, comprising: obtaining, during a first time interval, first media content of a being within a range of a first camera monitoring the being; detecting, based on the first media content, a first change associated with the being, wherein the first change associated with the being comprises a first movement of the being, a first change in a condition of the being, or a combination thereof; detecting, by utilizing instructions from a memory that are executed by a processor, an anomaly associated with the being based on comparing the first change associated with the being to aggregated data for a plurality of beings; determining, based on the anomaly associated with the being, a proposed interaction with the being; transmitting the proposed interaction to a device associated with the being; determining, based on the anomaly, the aggregated data, and on information obtained in response to transmitting the proposed interaction, a diagnosis associated with the being; and confirming the diagnosis based on other media content captured by a second camera that has a first sampling rate that is different from a second sampling rate of the first camera, wherein the second camera having the first sampling rate is configured to capture different motion than the first camera having the second sampling rate, wherein the different motion captured by the second camera includes a second movement of the being that the first camera is unable to detect.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising obtaining, during a second time interval, second media content of the being within the range of the first camera monitoring the being.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising comparing the first media content with the second media content to confirm whether the anomaly exists.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising transmitting a signal to adjust a position of the first camera to capture second media content of the being, wherein the signal is transmitted with the proposed interaction.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising analyzing the second media content to detect a second change associated with the being, and wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the diagnosis based on analysis of the second change.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying the being based on the first media content.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising anonymizing data associated with the being if a severity of the diagnosis exceeds a threshold.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising entering into an always-on mode, and further comprising capturing additional media content for the plurality of beings during the always-on mode.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable device comprising instructions, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: capturing first media content of a being within a range of a first camera; analyzing the first media content to detect a first change associated with the being, wherein the first change associated with the being comprises a first movement of the being, a first change in a condition of the being, or a combination thereof; detecting an anomaly associated with the being based on comparing the first change associated with the being to aggregated data for a plurality of beings; determining, based on the anomaly associated with the being, a proposed interaction with the being to determine a diagnosis associated with the being; transmitting the proposed interaction to a device associated with the being; determining, based on the anomaly, the aggregated data, and on information obtained in response to transmitting the proposed interaction, the diagnosis associated with the being; and confirming the diagnosis based on other media content captured by a second camera that has a first sampling rate that is different from a second sampling rate of the first camera, wherein the second camera having the first sampling rate is configured to capture different motion than the first camera having the second sampling rate, wherein the different motion captured by the second camera includes a second movement of the being that the first camera is unable to detect.
</claims>
</document>
