<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/18,B60W10/20,B60W30/09,G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, YAJIA
XU, KECHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68161766
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for generating trajectories for autonomous driving vehicles (ADVS)
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, in response to detecting an obstacle based on a driving environment surrounding an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), a system projects the obstacle onto a station-time (ST) graph, where the ST graph indicates a location of the obstacle relative to a current location of the ADV at different points in time. The system determines a first set of end points that are not overlapped with the obstacle within the ST graph, wherein each of the end points in the first set represents a possible end condition. The system generates a first set of trajectory candidates between a starting point representing the current location of the ADV and the end points of the first set based on the ST graph. The system selects one of the trajectory candidates in the first set using a predetermined trajectory selection algorithm to control the ADV in view of the obstacle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle, the method comprising: in response to detecting an obstacle based on a driving environment surrounding an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), projecting the obstacle onto a station-time (ST) graph, wherein the ST graph indicates a location of the obstacle relative to a location of the ADV at different points in time; determining a first set of end points based on a boundary of the obstacle within the ST graph, wherein each of the end points in the first set represents a possible end condition of a trajectory; generating a first set of trajectory candidates between a starting point representing a current location of the ADV and the end points of the first set based on the ST graph indicating the location of the obstacle relative to the location of the ADV at different points in time; selecting one of the trajectory candidates in the first set using a predetermined trajectory selection algorithm to control the ADV in view of the obstacle at different points in time; and generating a second set of trajectory candidates between a current speed of the ADV and a target speed of the ADV based on a velocity-time (VT) graph, wherein the trajectory is selected based on the first set and the second set of trajectory candidates.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario associated with the ADV at a point in time; projecting the target speed onto the VT graph, wherein the VT graph indicates velocities of the ADV at different points in time to generate the second set of trajectory candidates.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a static object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV to be approximately zero.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a moving object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; determining that the driving scenario is to follow the moving object; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to approximately a speed of the moving object.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining that there is no obstacle in view based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to the current speed of the ADV.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the obstacle is a moving object or a static object.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the static object is a stop sign or a traffic light.
8. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: in response to detecting an obstacle based on a driving environment surrounding an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), projecting the obstacle onto a station-time (ST) graph, wherein the ST graph indicates a location of the obstacle relative to a location of the ADV at different points in time; determining a first set of end points based on a boundary of the obstacle within the ST graph, wherein each of the end points in the first set represents a possible end condition of a trajectory; generating a first set of trajectory candidates between a starting point representing a current location of the ADV and the end points of the first set based on the ST graph indicating the location of the obstacle relative to the location of the ADV at different points in time; selecting one of the trajectory candidates in the first set using a predetermined trajectory selection algorithm to control the ADV in view of the obstacle at different points in time; and generating a second set of trajectory candidates between a current speed of the ADV and a target speed of the ADV based on a velocity-time (VT) graph, wherein the trajectory is selected based on the first set and the second set of trajectory candidates.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, further comprising: determining the target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario associated with the ADV at a point in time; projecting the target speed onto the VT graph, wherein the VT graph indicates velocities of the ADV at different points in time to generate the second set of trajectory candidates.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a static object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV to be approximately zero.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a moving object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; determining that the driving scenario is to follow the moving object; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to approximately a speed of the moving object.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining that there is no obstacle in view based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to the current speed of the ADV.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the obstacle is a moving object or a static object.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the static object is a stop sign or a traffic light.
15. A data processing system, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the one or more processors to store instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations including in response to detecting an obstacle based on a driving environment surrounding an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), projecting the obstacle onto a station-time (ST) graph, wherein the ST graph indicates a location of the obstacle relative to a location of the ADV at different points in time; determining a first set of end points based on a boundary of the obstacle within the ST graph, wherein each of the end points in the first set represents a possible end condition of a trajectory; generating a first set of trajectory candidates between a starting point representing a current location of the ADV and the end points of the first set based on the ST graph indicating the location of the obstacle relative to the location of the ADV at different points in time; selecting one of the trajectory candidates in the first set using a predetermined trajectory selection algorithm to control the ADV in view of the obstacle at different points in time; and generating a second set of trajectory candidates between a current speed of the ADV and a target speed of the ADV based on a velocity-time (VT) graph, wherein the trajectory is selected based on the first set and the second set of trajectory candidates.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: determining the target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario associated with the ADV at a point in time; projecting the target speed onto the VT graph, wherein the VT graph indicates velocities of the ADV at different points in time to generate the second set of trajectory candidates.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a static object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV to be approximately zero.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining the obstacle is a moving object based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; determining that the driving scenario is to follow the moving object; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to approximately a speed of the moving object.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein determining a target speed of the ADV based on a driving scenario comprises: determining that there is no obstacle in view based on perception information perceiving the driving environment; and setting the target speed of the ADV equal to the current speed of the ADV.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the obstacle is a moving object or a static object.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the static object is a stop sign or a traffic light.
</claims>
</document>
