<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61K38/00,C12Q1/00,G01N33/50,G01N33/68,G06F15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WILLIAM BEAUMONT HOSPITAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANCELLOR, MICHAEL B.
LAMB, LAURA
Janicki, Joseph J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59966532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods for detecting, diagnosing and treating ulcerative interstitial cystitis
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to methods for detecting, diagnosing and/or treating ulcerative interstitial cystitis (UIC) by detecting in a urine sample from a patient the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8 and GRO [also known as CXCL 1 (chemokine C-X-C motif ligand 1]. In some embodiments, the method also includes diagnosing the patient with UIC when each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8 and GRO in the urine sample is at a different level than a statistically validated threshold for the respective proteins. In some embodiments a companion diagnostic, e.g., a cystoscopy, is used in conjunction with the protein biomarker diagnostic. In some embodiments, once UIC is diagnosed, the patient is treated for the UIC.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of diagnosing and treating ulcerative interstitial cystitis (UIC) in a human patient, the method comprising: obtaining a urine sample from the patient, wherein the urine sample includes the proteins Interleukin 6 (IL-6), Interleukin 8 (IL-8) and Growth-regulated alpha protein (GRO); detecting a level of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample; diagnosing the patient with UIC when the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a higher level than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins; and administering a therapeutically effective amount of a treatment for UIC to the diagnosed patient.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the treatment is selected from a local analgesic, heparin, a liposome, pentosan polysulfate sodium, an antihistamine, an anti-inflammatory agent, and any combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the treatment is applied in the bladder via intravesical instillation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a cystoscopy or biopsy on the patient or evaluating the symptoms or history of the patient, or any combination thereof; and diagnosing the patient with UIC when (a) the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a higher level than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins; and (b) the cystoscopy, biopsy, symptoms or history indicates UIC.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when one or more of the levels of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample is at a level at least 1.5 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for the respective protein(s).
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when one or more of the levels of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample is at a level at least 2 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for the respective protein(s).
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when two or more of the levels of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a level at least 1.5 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when two or more of the levels of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a level at least 2 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a level at least 1.5 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample are at a level at least 2 times greater than a statistically validated threshold for each of the respective proteins.
11. The method claim 1, wherein the urine sample is not frozen before the detection step.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the urine sample is stored at an ambient temperature.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the urine sample is stored at a temperature between about 4째 C. and about 37째 C.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the urine sample is stored at a temperature between about 10째 C. and about 30째 C.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the levels of the proteins are detected by performing an ELISA.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the ELISA is a multiplex ELISA.
17. A method of diagnosing and treating ulcerative interstitial cystitis (UIC) in a human patient, the method comprising: obtaining a urine sample from the human patient, wherein the urine sample includes the proteins Interleukin 6 (IL-6), Interleukin 8 (IL-8) and Growth-regulated alpha protein (GRO); preserving the urine sample; detecting a level of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient; determining a risk score based on the levels of the proteins IL-6, IL-8 and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient, wherein the risk score is determined by a risk score model that is generated by one or more processors comprising a machine learning algorithm based on a data set comprising IL-6, IL-8, and GRO levels in patient urine samples and control urine samples, and wherein the risk score indicates a probability that the patient is in need of treatment for UIC; diagnosing the patient with UIC when the risk score is greater than or equal to 0.5; and administering a therapeutically effective amount of a treatment for UIC when the patient is diagnosed with UIC.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the treatment is selected from a local analgesic, heparin, a liposome, pentosan polysulfate sodium, an antihistamine, an anti-inflammatory agent, and any combination thereof.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the machine learning algorithm is a classification machine learning algorithm or a random forest classifier algorithm.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the risk score model comprises a plurality of decision trees that each predict a positive or negative diagnosis for UIC based on levels of proteins IL-6, IL-8 and GRO in a subset of the data set.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the risk score for a urine sample is calculated by determining an average of the output values of the plurality of decision trees, wherein the output equals a first value when the decision tree predicts a negative diagnosis for UIC and the output equals a second value when the decision tree predicts a positive diagnosis for UIC.
22. The method of claim 17, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the level of one of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient is higher than the level of the respective protein in the control urine samples.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the level of one of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient is at least 1.5 times greater than the level of the respective protein in the control urine samples.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of two of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient are higher than the levels of the respective proteins in the control urine samples.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of two of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient are at least 1.5 times greater than the levels of the respective proteins in the control urine samples.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient are higher than the levels for each of the respective proteins in the control urine samples.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the patient is diagnosed with UIC when the levels of each of the proteins IL-6, IL-8, and GRO in the urine sample from the human patient are at least 1.5 times greater than the levels for each of the respective proteins in the control urine samples.
</claims>
</document>
