<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04N19/105,H04N19/172,H04N7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIRIL, ABDULKADIR UTKU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051829
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for encoding videos using reference objects
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for encoding videos using reference objects may include identifying, by a computing device, a video to be encoded. The method may also include identifying, by the computing device, a set of objects that appear in the video as reference images for video encoding. In addition, the method may include training a machine learning algorithm to detect an object from the set of objects. Furthermore, the method may include encoding each frame of the video using the trained machine learning algorithm. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying, by a computing device, a video to be encoded; identifying, by the computing device, a set of objects that appear in the video as reference images for video encoding; training a machine learning algorithm to detect an object from the set of objects; and encoding each frame of the video using the trained machine learning algorithm, wherein encoding each frame of the video comprises: detecting at least one object in each frame using the machine learning algorithm; compressing each frame to reduce data on non-object images; and performing reference-frame compression for frames in which no object is detected by the machine learning algorithm, wherein the reference-frame compression comprises: selecting at least one reference frame; comparing at least one later frame of the video with the reference frame; and compressing the later frame to reduce redundant image data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the set of objects includes performing an initial pass of a set of frames of the video to detect objects and storing the detected objects in an object buffer, and the training the machine learning algorithm includes performing a second pass of the set of frames to detect objects using the object buffer.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing the second pass of the set of frames to detect objects using the object buffer includes updating the object buffer with a new reference image of an object detected during the second pass.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein training the machine learning algorithm includes training the machine learning algorithm using reference images for the object in the updated object buffer.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the video to be encoded comprises at least one of: a video file; or a live streaming video.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the set of objects comprises at least one of: identifying a list of expected objects for the video; or storing the detected objects in an object buffer.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the reference images comprise at least one of: a set of images for each object in the list of expected objects; or a portion of each frame in the set of frames of the video that contains a detected object.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein training the machine learning algorithm to detect the object comprises at least one of: training the machine learning algorithm using a pre-trained object-detection model; training the machine learning algorithm using the reference images for the object; or updating the object buffer with a new reference image.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising improving the machine learning algorithm with new reference images.
10. A system comprising: an identification module, stored in memory, that identifies, by a computing device, a video to be encoded; an object module, stored in memory, that identifies, by the computing device, a set of objects that appear in the video as reference images for video encoding; a training module, stored in memory, that trains a machine learning algorithm to detect an object from the set of objects; an encoding module, stored in memory, that encodes each frame of the video using the trained machine learning algorithm, wherein the encoding module encodes each frame of the video by: detecting at least one object in each frame using the machine learning algorithm; compressing each frame to reduce data on non-object images; and performing reference-frame compression for frames in which no object is detected by the machine learning algorithm, wherein the reference-frame compression comprises: selecting at least one reference frame; comparing at least one later frame of the video with the reference frame; and compressing the later frame to reduce redundant image data; and at least one processor that executes the identification module, the object module, the training module, and the encoding module.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the object module identifies the set of objects at least in part by performing an initial pass of a set of frames of the video to detect objects and storing the detected objects in an object buffer, and the training module trains the machine learning algorithm at least in part by performing a second pass of the set of frames to detect objects using the object buffer.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the training module performs the second pass of the set of frames to detect objects using the object buffer at least in part by updating the object buffer with a new reference image of an object detected during the second pass.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the training module trains the machine learning algorithm at least in part using reference images for the object in the updated object buffer.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the video to be encoded comprises at least one of: a video file; or a live streaming video.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the object module identifies the set of objects by at least one of: identifying a list of expected objects for the video; or storing the detected objects in an object buffer.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the reference images comprise at least one of: a set of images for each object in the list of expected objects; or a portion of each frame in the set of frames of the video that contains a detected object.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the training module trains the machine learning algorithm to detect the object by at least one of: training the machine learning algorithm using a pre-trained object-detection model; training the machine learning algorithm using the reference images for the object; or updating the object buffer with a new reference image.
18. The system of claim 10, further comprising improving the machine learning algorithm with new reference images.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising one or more computer-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, cause the computing device to: identify a video to be encoded; identify a set of objects that appear in the video as reference images for video encoding; train a machine learning algorithm to detect an object from the set of objects; and encode each frame of the video using the trained machine learning algorithm, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to encode each frame of the video at least in part by: detecting at least one object in each frame using the machine learning algorithm; compressing each frame to reduce data on non-object images; and performing reference-frame compression for frames in which no object is detected by the machine learning algorithm, wherein the reference-frame compression comprises: selecting at least one reference frame; comparing at least one later frame of the video with the reference frame; and compressing the later frame to reduce redundant image data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to identify the set of objects at least in part by performing an initial pass of a set of frames of the video to detect objects and storing the detected objects in an object buffer, and the instructions cause the at least one processor to train the machine learning algorithm at least in part by performing a second pass of the set of frames to detect objects using the object buffer.
</claims>
</document>
