<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B41F33/00,G06K15/02,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED VISION TECHNOLOGY (AVT)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEKEL-KLEIN, MAYA
GAZALA, CHANAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62454916
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating images for inspection
</title>

<abstract>
Method for generating a test-set for inspection of a design being printed by a printing-press, each color-unit in the printing-press prints a respective color. The design is composed of original-layers. Inspection includes determining the origin of at least one defect in the printed-design. The method includes the procedures of generating defective-layer or layers of the design, by introducing at least one selected defect to at least one selected original-layer, in a selected location or locations and combining layers using a trained-synthesis-neural-network. The layers include the defective-layer or layers and remaining ones of the original-layers. The trained-synthesis-neural-network provides a plurality of features respective of each pixel. The method also includes the procedure of generating the test-set from the output of the synthesis-neural-network. The test-set includes at least one synthesized-test-image. The synthesized-test-image includes at least one synthesized-defect at the selected location. The test-set is employed to determine the origin of the defect.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a test set for inspection of a printed embodiment of a design as printed by a printing press, said printing press including a plurality of color units, each one of said color units configured to print a respective color, said design defined by a computer file comprising information relating to a plurality of original layers, each of said original layers including a topography associated with a color respective thereof, said inspection at least including determining the origin of at least one printed defect in said printed embodiment of the design, the method comprising the steps of: generating, for each member of the test set, at least one defective layer of said design by introducing at least one synthesized defect to at least one selected original layer in at least one selected location; combining layers using a trained synthesis neural network, said layers including said at least one defective layer and remaining ones of said original layers, said trained synthesis neural network providing as an output thereof a plurality of features respective of each pixel; and generating said test set from said output of said synthesis neural network, said test set including at least one synthesized test image corresponding to each member of the test set, said at least one synthesized test image including said at least one synthesized defect at said at least one selected location.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising training the synthesis neural network for a first job having a first job specification and retraining the synthesis neural network for a second job having a second job specification, wherein the second job specification differs from the first job specification by at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of: type of ink, density of ink, type of illumination, type and color of substrate, and number of printing stations.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of combining layers using the trained synthesis neural network comprises creating training regions of interest (ROI) corresponding to fewer than all possible combinations of the least one defective layer and the remaining original layers, regions comprising less than an entirety of each layer, or a combination thereof.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the training ROIs include only selected layer combinations included in the design, selected regions not affected by registration errors, or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 3, including automatically selecting the layer combinations included in the design for use in creation of the training ROIs.
6. A method for inspection of a printed embodiment of a design as printed by a printing press, said printing press including a plurality of color units, each one of said color units configured to print a respective color, said design defined by a computer file comprising information relating to a plurality of original layers, each of said original layers including a topography associated with a color respective thereof, said inspection at least including determining the origin of at least one printed defect in said printed embodiment of the design, the method comprising the steps of: a) acquiring an image of the printed embodiment of the design; b) analyzing said acquired image to identify said at least one printed defect in the printed embodiment of the design according to the acquired image; c) generating a test set to be employed for inspection of the printed embodiment of the design by: i) generating, for each member of the test set, at least one defective layer of said design by introducing at least one synthesized defect to at least one selected original layer in at least one selected location; ii) combining layers using a trained synthesis neural network, said layers including said at least one defective layer and remaining ones of said original layers, said trained synthesis neural network providing as an output thereof a plurality of features respective of each pixel; and iii) generating said test set from said output of said synthesis neural network, said test set including a synthesized test image corresponding to each member of the test set, each including the at least one synthesized defect at said at least one selected location; d) comparing the acquired image with one or more synthesized test images in said test set; e) determining the origin of said at least one printed defect by determining which of the one or more synthesized test images best matches the acquired image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of analyzing said acquired image includes decomposing the acquired image into a plurality of separation images, each separation image having an associated color.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of decomposing the acquired image into a plurality of separation images comprises employing a trained separation neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising employing the trained separation neural network to identify registration errors by determining relative displacement between separation images created during set up of a printing press.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the trained separation neural network is configured to incorporate an effect of a substrate type having one or more colors and one or more textures.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising employing the trained separation neural network during set up of the printing press by analyzing said acquired image printed on a first substrate by the printing press, and employing the separation neural network during printing of a print job by analyzing said acquired image printed on a first substrate by the printing press.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of identifying said at least one defect includes identifying a separation image corresponding to the at least one defect, and the step of generating said at least one defective layer is performed only for a color corresponding to the color associated with the separation image in which said at least one defect was identified.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the printing press is a cylinder-based printing press in which the color unit comprises a printing station.
14. The method of claim 6, wherein the printing press is a digital printing press in which the color unit comprises one or more nozzles.
15. A system for synthesizing a test set for inspection of a printed embodiment of a design as printed by a printing press, the system comprising: a processor configured to employ a synthesis neural network, the synthesis neural network configured to input a computer file defining said design, said file comprising a plurality of original layers, each one of said original layers including a topography associated with a color respective thereof, the synthesis neural network configured to: generate, for each member of the test set, at least one defective layer of said design by introducing at least one synthesized defect to at least one selected original layer in at least one selected location; combine layers including said at least one defective layer and remaining ones of said original layers; provide as an output a plurality of features respective of each pixel; and generate said test set from said output, said test set including at least one synthesized test image corresponding to each member of the test set, said at least one synthesized test image including at least one synthesized defect at said at least one selected location.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the system is further configured to apply the test set to inspect the embodiment of the design as printed by a printing press and the processor is further configured to: synthesize a golden master image from the computer file defining said design; input an acquired image of the printed design; analyze said acquired image against said golden master filed to identify said at least one printed defect in the printed embodiment of the design; compare the acquired image with one or more synthesized test images in said test set; determine the origin of said at least one printed defect by determining which of the one or more synthesized test images best matches the acquired image.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to employ a separation neural network to decompose the acquired image into a plurality of separation images, each separation image having an associated color.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to identify a location and a type of said at least one defect.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the printing press is a cylinder-based printing press in which the color unit comprises a printing station.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the printing press is a digital printing press in which the color unit comprises one or more nozzles.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the separation neural network is configured to incorporate an effect of a substrate type having one or more colors and one or more textures.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the synthesis neural network is configured to incorporate an effect of a substrate type having one or more colors and one or more textures.
</claims>
</document>
