<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04M1/66,H04M1/725,H04M3/22,H04M3/42,H04M3/436,H04W8/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FIRST ORION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEORGE, NYSIA INET
PISCOPO, JR., ROBERT FRANCIS
SHADDOX, ANDREW COLLIN
MORGAN, CHARLES DONALD
WELCH, SAMUEL KENTON
KLIEBHAN, DANIEL FRANCIS
CHOY, CHEE-FUNG
BROWN, JAMELLE ADNAN
TURNEY, COLLIN MICHAEL
BOTNER, MARK HAMILTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69902463
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Call screening service for communication devices
</title>

<abstract>
One example method of operation may include identifying call data associated with a received call, identifying call parameters from the call data, and the call parameters include one or more call routing parameters associated with call routing of the call and one or more call session parameters associated with a call session of the call, assigning weights to one or more of the call routing parameters and the call session parameters, determining a scam score for the call based on a sum of the weights applied to the call routing parameters and the call session parameters, and blocking the call when the scam score is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold scam score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: identifying a plurality of call parameters from call data, wherein the plurality of call parameters comprise one or more call routing parameters associated with a call and one or more call session parameters associated with the call; assigning weights to one or more of the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; determining a scam score for the call based on a sum of the weights applied to the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; and blocking the call when the scam score is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold scam score.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the one or more call routing parameters to one or more call routing parameter thresholds; and applying weights to the call routing parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call routing parameter thresholds.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the one or more call session parameters to one or call session parameter thresholds among the call parameters; and applying weights to the call session parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call session parameter thresholds.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the weights applied to the call session parameters are lower valued weights than the weights applied to the call routing parameters.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein call session parameters include one or more session initiation protocol (SIP) specific parameters comprising one or more of maximum forwards, timer values, session expires, and content length.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the call routing parameters comprise one or more of a caller phone number, a specific NPANXX called number, an IP address of the caller, an IP address of a routing device on the caller's carrier network, and an IP address of a callee.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the call routing parameters and the call session parameters which do not meet or exceed corresponding call routing parameter thresholds and call session parameter thresholds are not assigned weights.
8. An apparatus comprising: a processor configured to identify a plurality of call parameters from call data, wherein the plurality of call parameters comprise one or more call routing parameters associated with a call and one or more call session parameters associated with the call; assign weights to one or more of the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; determine a scam score for the call based on a sum of the weights applied to the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; and block the call when the scam score is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold scam score.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the one or more call routing parameters to one or more call routing parameter thresholds; and apply weights to the call routing parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call routing parameter thresholds.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to compare the one or more call session parameters to one or call session parameter thresholds among the call parameters; and apply weights to the call session parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call session parameter thresholds.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the weights applied to the call session parameters are lower valued weights than the weights applied to the call routing parameters.
12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein call session parameters include one or more session initiation protocol (SIP) specific parameters comprising one or more of maximum forwards, timer values, session expires, and content length.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the call routing parameters comprise one or more of a caller phone number, a specific NPANXX called number, an IP address of the caller, an IP address of a routing device on the caller's carrier network, and an IP address of a callee.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the call routing parameters and the call session parameters which do not meet or exceed corresponding call routing parameter thresholds and call session parameter thresholds are not assigned weights.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium configured to store instructions that when executed cause a processor to perform: identifying a plurality of call parameters from call data, wherein the plurality of call parameters comprise one or more call routing parameters associated with a call and one or more call session parameters associated with the call; assigning weights to one or more of the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; determining a scam score for the call based on a sum of the weights applied to the call routing parameters and the call session parameters; and blocking the call when the scam score is greater than or equal to a predetermined threshold scam score.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: comparing the one or more call routing parameters to one or more call routing parameter thresholds; and applying weights to the call routing parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call routing parameter thresholds.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: comparing the one or more call session parameters to one or call session parameter thresholds among the call parameters; and applying weights to the call session parameters which meet or exceed the one or more call session parameter thresholds.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the weights applied to the call session parameters are lower valued weights than the weights applied to the call routing parameters.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein call session parameters include one or more session initiation protocol (SIP) specific parameters comprising one or more of maximum forwards, timer values, session expires, and content length.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the call routing parameters comprise one or more of a caller phone number, a specific NPANXX called number, an IP address of the caller, an IP address of a routing device on the caller's carrier network, and an IP address of a callee, and wherein the call routing parameters and the call session parameters which do not meet or exceed corresponding call routing parameter thresholds and call session parameter thresholds are not assigned weights.
</claims>
</document>
