<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B66F3/46,B66F5/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BALDOMAR SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERLSTEIN, ZACHARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64400727
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automating the operation of vehicle lifts
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for methods and systems for automating the operation of vehicle lifts in the servicing of automotive vehicles. The lifts may be motorized mobile column lifts and/or fixed lifts, including two-post lifts with swing-arms and a variety of drive-on lifts. Motorized mobile lifts have a motorized transport mechanism. A guidance system first assigns available motorized mobile lifts to the axled wheels of a vehicle and then directs their transport mechanism for transporting them to their engagement locations. It also guides the engagement of both the motorized mobile lifts and the fixed lifts in the service center. A number of technologies may be used for this purpose, including sensors onboard the vehicles and/or the lifts and/or the service center. A computer vision pipeline may also be utilized to assist in the process. Machine learning may also be employed. Techniques are also extended to autonomous vehicles as well as interfacing with fleet management software.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A motorized mobile lift system comprising: (a) a plurality of mobile lifts each comprising a motorized transport mechanism; (b) each of said plurality of mobile lifts further comprising an engagement mechanism for engaging with one of a plurality of axled wheels of an autonomous vehicle; (c) a guidance system for assigning available mobile lifts from said plurality of mobile lifts to at least four of said plurality of said axled wheels of said vehicle and thus obtaining assigned mobile lifts; (d) said guidance system also responsible for guiding said transport mechanism of each of said assigned mobile lifts for transporting it to an engagement location for said engaging; and (e) a control system for lifting and lowering said vehicle by controlling each of said mobile lifts after said engaging; wherein said guidance system comprises a microprocessor executing program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium, and wherein at least one of said plurality of mobile lifts communicates with said autonomous vehicle to drive, position and stop said autonomous vehicle where said lifting can occur safely.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said mobile lifts communicate with each other in conjunction with at least one of said guidance system and said control system via at least one of a wired mode and a wireless mode of communication.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein an Application Programming Interface (API) is used to integrate with one or both of a backend system and an onboard diagnostics system.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein said transporting is performed along a designated path in a service center.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein said engaging occurs after one of a manual adjustment and a motorized adjustment of said engagement mechanism according to the diameter of said one of said plurality of said axled wheels.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein said mobile lifts are locked before said lifting and said lowering of said vehicle.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein said guidance system utilizes one or more sensors selected from the group consisting of cellular transceivers, Global Positioning System (GPS) sensors, Wi-Fi transceivers, WiMax transceivers, Ultra-wideband (UWB) sensors, Lidars, radars, sonars, Bluetooth transceivers, beacons, ZigBee sensors, IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPAN) sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, vibration sensors, optical flow sensors, compasses, magnetometers, Hall effect sensors, acoustic sensors, microwave sensors, ultrasonic sensors, infrared sensors, radio frequency identification (RFID) sensors, angle sensors, laser based obstruction sensors, image sensors and cameras.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein said guidance system minimizes collisions and bottlenecks in said guiding of said transporting.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein a service is performed on said vehicle after said lifting, said service selected from the group consisting of an inspection service, a maintenance service and a repair service.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said vehicle has one or more sensors in at least one of an integrated and a retrofitted manner, for assisting in at least one of said engaging and said guiding.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein said one or more sensors communicate said engagement location to said guidance system for said assisting in said guiding.
12. The system of claim 10 wherein said one or more sensors are selected from the group consisting of cellular transceivers, Global Positioning System (GPS) sensors, Wi-Fi transceivers, WiMax transceivers, Ultra-wideband (UWB) sensors, Lidars, radars, sonars, Bluetooth transceivers, beacons, ZigBee sensors, IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPAN) sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, vibration sensors, optical flow sensors, compasses, magnetometers, Hall effect sensors, acoustic sensors, microwave sensors, ultrasonic sensors, infrared sensors, radio frequency identification (RFID) sensors, angle sensors, laser based obstruction sensors, image sensors and cameras.
13. The system of claim 10 wherein said engaging occurs after one of a manual and motorized adjustment of said engagement mechanism according to a size of said one of said plurality of said axled wheels.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein said guidance system also utilizes during said guiding, one or more sensors in at least one element selected from the group consisting of said mobile lifts and a service center.
15. The system of claim 13 wherein said guidance system utilizes at least one of a computer vision pipeline and machine learning, for said guiding.
16. A lift system comprising: (a) a plurality of fixed lifts, each comprising an engagement mechanism containing swing-arms with lift pads for engaging at engagement locations underneath an autonomous vehicle; (b) a guidance system for guiding said engagement mechanism in said engaging at said engagement locations within a prescribed tolerance; and (c) said vehicle having one or more sensors in at least one of an integrated and a retrofitted manner, for assisting said guidance system in said guiding; (d) a control system for lifting and lowering said vehicle by synchronizing each of said plurality of fixed lifts; wherein said guidance system comprises a microprocessor executing program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium, and wherein at least one of said plurality of lifts communicates with said autonomous vehicle to drive, position and stop said autonomous vehicle where said lifting can occur safely.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein a service bay where said vehicle is parked also has one or more sensors for said assisting in said guiding.
18. The system of claim 16 further comprising an interface with at least one of a backend system and an onboard diagnostics system.
19. The system of claim 16 wherein the coordinates of said engagement locations are determined based on at least one parameter of said vehicle, said at least one parameter selected from the group consisting of a vehicle make, a vehicle model, a vehicle length, a vehicle width, a tire diameter and an axle location.
20. The system of claim 16 wherein said one or more sensors are used for communicating said engagement locations to said guidance system for said assisting in said guiding.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein one or more of said plurality of fixed lifts also has one or more sensors in at least one of an integrated and a retrofitted manner, for participating in said communicating.
22. The system of claim 20 wherein said engagement locations are prescribed lifting points on said vehicle.
23. The system of claim 22 wherein said guidance system utilizes at least one of a computer vision pipeline and machine learning, for said guiding.
24. A lift system comprising: (a) a plurality of lifts, each comprising an engagement mechanism for engaging at one or more engagement locations of an autonomous vehicle, wherein at least one of said plurality of lifts is a fixed lift selected from the group consisting of a frame-engaging lift, a drive-on lift, an in-ground lift and a surface-mounted lift; (b) a guidance system for guiding said engaging at said one or more engagement locations; (c) said vehicle having one or more sensors in at least one of an integrated and a retrofitted manner, for assisting said guidance system in said guiding; (d) a control system for lifting said vehicle by controlling said plurality of lifts after said engaging; wherein said guidance system comprises a microprocessor executing program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium, and wherein at least one of said plurality of lifts communicates with said autonomous vehicle to drive, position and stop said autonomous vehicle where said lifting can occur safely.
25. The system of claim 24 wherein said one are more sensors are selected from the group consisting of cellular transceivers, Global Positioning System (GPS) sensors, Wi-Fi transceivers, WiMax transceivers, Ultra-wideband (UWB) sensors, Lidars, radars, sonars, Bluetooth transceivers, beacons, ZigBee sensors, IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPAN) sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, vibration sensors, optical flow sensors, compasses, magnetometers, Hall effect sensors, acoustic sensors, microwave sensors, ultrasonic sensors, infrared sensors, radio frequency identification (RFID) sensors, angle sensors, laser based obstruction sensors, image sensors and cameras.
26. The system of claim 24 further comprising an Application Programming Interface (API) to integrate with one or both of a backend system and a system onboard said vehicle.
27. The system of claim 24 wherein at least one of said plurality of lifts is a motorized mobile column lift.
28. The system of claim 24 wherein at least one of said plurality of lifts is a fixed lift with two swing-arms having lift pads, and said one or more engagement locations are lifting points underneath said vehicle where said lift pads make contact within a prescribed tolerance.
29. A method of operating a plurality of motorized mobile lifts, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing each of said plurality of mobile lifts with a motorized transport mechanism; (b) providing each of said plurality of mobile lifts with an engagement mechanism for engaging with one of a plurality of axled wheels of an autonomous vehicle, said engaging performed at an engagement location; (c) providing a guidance system for obtaining assigned mobile lifts by assigning available mobile lifts from said plurality of mobile lifts to at least four of said plurality of said axled wheels of said vehicle; (d) configuring said guidance system for also guiding said transport mechanism of each of said assigned mobile lifts for transporting it to and from said engagement location; and (e) providing a control system for controlling each of said mobile lifts for lifting after said engaging; whereby said guidance system comprises a microprocessor executing program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium; and communicating, via at least one of said plurality of mobile lifts, with said autonomous vehicle to drive, position and stop said autonomous vehicle where said lifting can occur safely.
30. The method of claim 29 further interfacing with a fleet management system.
31. The method of claim 29 allowing one of a manual and a motorized adjusting of said engagement mechanism according to a size of said one of said plurality of said axled wheels.
32. The method of claim 31 utilizing at least one of a make and a model of said vehicle in said motorized adjusting of said engagement mechanism.
33. The method of claim 31 utilizing at least one of sensors and a computer vision pipeline for at least one of said guiding by said guidance system in said step (d) and said motorized adjusting of said engagement mechanism.
34. The method of claim 33 selecting one or more of said sensors from the group consisting of cellular transceivers, Global Positioning System (GPS) sensors, Wi-Fi transceivers, WiMax transceivers, Ultra-wideband (UWB) sensors, Lidars, radars, sonars, Bluetooth transceivers, beacons, ZigBee sensors, IPv6 over Low power Wireless Personal Area Networks (6LoWPAN) sensors, accelerometers, gyroscopes, vibration sensors, optical flow sensors, compasses, magnetometers, Hall effect sensors, acoustic sensors, microwave sensors, ultrasonic sensors, infrared sensors, radio frequency identification (RFID) sensors, angle sensors, laser based obstruction sensors, image sensors and cameras.
35. The method of claim 34 only requiring installing of said one or more sensors on one or more of said plurality of mobile lifts themselves.
36. The method of claim 35 commencing said transporting from a location selected from the group consisting of a home location and a location of a serviced vehicle.
37. The method of claim 35 ending said transporting at a location selected from the group consisting of a home location and a location of an un-serviced vehicle.
38. A method of operating a plurality of lifts, said method comprising the steps of: (a) providing each of said plurality of lifts with an engagement mechanism for engaging with an autonomous vehicle; (b) providing a guidance system for guiding said engagement mechanism for facilitating said engaging; (c) providing said vehicle with one or more sensors in at least one of an integrated and a retrofitted manner, for assisting said guidance system in said guiding; whereby said guidance system comprises a microprocessor executing program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium; and communicating, via at least one of said plurality of mobile lifts, with said autonomous vehicle to drive, position and stop said autonomous vehicle where said lifting can occur safely.
39. The method of claim 38 further interfacing with a fleet management system.
40. The method of claim 38 providing said plurality of lifts to be motorized mobile column lifts and configuring said guidance system to further guide a transport mechanism of at least one of said motorized mobile column lifts to an engagement location for said engaging.
41. The method of claim 38 providing said plurality of lifts to be fixed lifts with swing-arms, each swing-arm having a lift pad, and configuring said guidance system to guide said lift pad on said each swing-arm to a lifting point underneath said vehicle, for said engaging within a prescribed tolerance.
42. The method of claim 38 whereby said vehicle is autonomous.
43. The method of claim 38 whereby said guidance system utilizes a computer vision pipeline for said facilitating.
</claims>
</document>
