<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F11/34,G06F16/2455,G06F16/2458,G06F17/30,G06F21/55,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAWLICK, DIETER
CHAN, ERIC S.
GROSS, KENNY C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63444841
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hybrid univariate/multivariate prognostic-surveillance technique
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments relate to a system for analyzing telemetry data. During operation, the system obtains telemetry data gathered from sensors during operation of a monitored system. Next, the system applies a univariate model to the telemetry data to identify an operational phase for the monitored system, wherein the univariate model analyzes an individual signal in the telemetry data without reference to other signals in the telemetry data. The system then selects a phase-specific multivariate model based on the identified operational phase, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model was previously trained based on telemetry data gathered while the system was operating in the identified operational phase. Finally, the system uses the phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data to detect incipient anomalies associated with the operation of the monitored system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing telemetry data, comprising: identifying a plurality of operational phases of a monitored system during training of the monitored system; training a plurality of phase-specific multivariate models, wherein each operational phase has a corresponding phase-specific multivariate model; saving the plurality of phase-specific multivariate models to a trained-model library; obtaining telemetry data gathered from sensors during operation of the monitored system; applying a univariate model to the telemetry data to identify an operational phase of the monitored system, wherein the univariate model analyzes an individual signal in the telemetry data without reference to other signals in the telemetry data; selecting a phase-specific multivariate model from the trained-model library based on the identified operational phase from the univariate model, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model was previously trained based on telemetry data gathered while the system was operating in the identified operational phase; using the phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data to detect incipient anomalies associated with the operation of the monitored system including anomalies that were unknown when the telemetry data was originally ingested, thereby integrating a univariate time-series prognostic technique with an advanced multivariate prognostic technique; and wherein while the phase-specific multivariate model is applied to the telemetry data; continuing to apply the univariate model to the telemetry data; when the univariate model indicates that the monitored system has transitioned to a subsequent operational phase, selecting a subsequent phase-specific multivariate model for the subsequent operational phase, and using the subsequent phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the telemetry data involves obtaining the telemetry data from a database while processing a database query, wherein the telemetry data was originally ingested into the database from a monitored system with no real-time anomaly detection.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the univariate model to the telemetry data involves applying multiple univariate models to the telemetry data to identify the operational phase for the monitored system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the univariate model comprises a Symbolic Aggregate approXimation (SAX) univariate time-series classifier.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model comprises a model that uses a nonlinear, nonparametric (NLNP) regression technique.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model comprises a model that uses the multivariate state estimation technique (MSET).
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the telemetry data includes one or more of the following: data gathered from physical sensors in the monitored system; software-related telemetry parameters gathered from software in the monitored system; and control inputs for the monitored system.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the phase-specific multivariate model to distinguish sensor degradation from real process anomalies.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for analyzing telemetry data, the method comprising: identifying a plurality of operational phases of a monitored system during training of the monitored system; training a plurality of phase-specific multivariate models, wherein each operational phase has a corresponding phase-specific multivariate model; saving the plurality of phase-specific multivariate models to a trained-model library; obtaining telemetry data gathered from sensors during operation of the monitored system; applying a univariate model to the telemetry data to identify an operational phase for the monitored system, wherein the univariate model analyzes an individual signal in the telemetry data without reference to other signals in the telemetry data; selecting a phase-specific multivariate model from the trained-model library based on the identified operational phase from the univariate model, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model was previously trained based on telemetry data gathered while the system was operating in the identified operational phase; using the phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data to detect incipient anomalies associated with the operation of the monitored system including anomalies that were unknown when the telemetry data was originally ingested, thereby integrating a univariate time-series prognostic technique with an advanced multivariate prognostic technique; and wherein while the phase-specific multivariate model is applied to the telemetry data; continuing to apply the univariate model to the telemetry data, when the univariate model indicates that the monitored system has transitioned to a subsequent operational phase, selecting a subsequent phase-specific multivariate model for the subsequent operational phase, and using the subsequent phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein obtaining the telemetry data involves obtaining the telemetry data from a database while processing a database query, wherein the telemetry data was originally ingested into the database from a monitored system with no real-time anomaly detection.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein applying the univariate model to the telemetry data involves applying multiple univariate models to the telemetry data to identify the operational phase for the monitored system.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the univariate model comprises a Symbolic Aggregate approXimation (SAX) univariate time-series classifier.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model comprises a model that uses a nonlinear, nonparametric (NLNP) regression technique.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model comprises a model that uses the multivariate state estimation technique (MSET).
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the telemetry data includes one or more of the following: data gathered from physical sensors in the monitored system; software-related telemetry parameters gathered from software in the monitored system; and control inputs for the monitored system.
16. A system that analyzes telemetry data, comprising: a memory; a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed on the processor cause the system to instantiate; a detection mechanism that uses a prognostic-surveillance technique to detect incipient anomalies that arise during execution of a monitored system, wherein during operation, the detection mechanism: identifying a plurality of operational phases of a monitored system during training of the monitored system; training a plurality of phase-specific multivariate models, wherein each operational phase has a corresponding phase-specific multivariate model; saving the plurality of phase-specific multivariate models to a trained-model library; obtains telemetry data gathered from sensors during operation of the monitored system; applies a univariate model to the telemetry data to identify an operational phase for the monitored system, wherein the univariate model analyzes an individual signal in the telemetry data without reference to other signals in the telemetry data; selects a phase-specific multivariate model from the trained-model library based on the identified operational phase from the univariate model, wherein the phase-specific multivariate model was previously trained based on telemetry data gathered while the system was operating in the identified operational phase; uses the phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data to detect incipient anomalies associated with the operation of the monitored system including anomalies that were unknown when the telemetry data was originally ingested, thereby integrating a univariate time-series prognostic technique with an advanced multivariate prognostic technique; and wherein while the phase-specific multivariate model is applied to the telemetry data, the detection mechanism: continuing to apply the univariate model to the telemetry data, when the univariate model indicates that the monitored system has transitioned to a subsequent operational phase, selects a subsequent phase-specific multivariate model for the subsequent operational phase, and uses the subsequent phase-specific multivariate model to monitor the telemetry data.
</claims>
</document>
