<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEHTA, SAMEEP
NARAYANAM, KRISHNASURI
VIJAYKEERTHY, DEEPAK
MUJUMDAR, SHASHANK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731926
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Storage layer selection based upon information assignment
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method, including: receiving, from an application, information for storage in a storage management system, wherein the storage management system comprises a plurality of storage layers, each storage layer having a different performance and a different cost than the other storage layers; labeling the information with one of a plurality of labels relevant to the application; assigning the information a performance tolerance value based upon the label of the information, wherein the performance tolerance value comprises an estimate of the performance requirement required by the application storing the information; determining a storage layer for storage of the information, wherein the determining comprises identifying one of the plurality of storage layers corresponding to the label of the information and updating metadata of a logical volume corresponding to the information with the performance tolerance value; and sending the information to the determined storage layer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from an application, information for storage in a storage management system, wherein the storage management system comprises a plurality of storage layers, each storage layer having a different performance and a different cost than the other storage layers; labeling, using a classification algorithm, the information with one of a plurality of labels relevant to the application; assigning the information a performance tolerance value based upon the label of the information, wherein the performance tolerance value comprises an estimate of the performance requirement required by the application storing the information; determining, based upon the performance tolerance value of the information, a storage layer for storage of the information, wherein the determining comprises identifying one of the plurality of storage layers corresponding to the label of the information and updating metadata of a logical volume corresponding to the information with the performance tolerance value; and sending the information to the determined storage layer based upon the metadata of the logical volume.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling comprises using user feedback received with the information to label the information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification algorithm comprises a supervised machine learning algorithm trained during a training phase.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the labeling comprises chunking the information into application specific data groups; and the method comprising assigning a performance tolerance value to each of the chunks of information by determining a data access requirement needed while accessing the corresponding data chunk.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising changing the assigned performance tolerance value of the information based upon user feedback.
6. The method of claim 5, comprising moving the information to a storage layer different than the determined storage layer based upon the changed performance tolerance value.
7. The method of claim 1, comprising sending the information to a storage layer having different performance if the determined storage layer is full.
8. The method of claim 7, comprising overwriting information contained in the determined storage layer if all storage layers are full.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising moving the information to a different storage layer upon accessing the information by the application after it is stored.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the updating the metadata comprises passing the performance tolerance value in kernel-space.
11. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor; and a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the at least one processor, the computer readable program code comprising: computer readable program code configured to receive, from an application, information for storage in a storage management system, wherein the storage management system comprises a plurality of storage layers, each storage layer having a different performance and a different cost than the other storage layers; computer readable program code configured to label, using a classification algorithm, the information with one of a plurality of labels relevant to the application; computer readable program code configured to assign the information a performance tolerance value based upon the label of the information, wherein the performance tolerance value comprises an estimate of the performance requirement required by the application storing the information; computer readable program code configured to determine, based upon the performance tolerance value of the information, a storage layer for storage of the information, wherein the determining comprises identifying one of the plurality of storage layers corresponding to the label of the information and updating metadata of a logical volume corresponding to the information with the performance tolerance value; and computer readable program code configured to send the information to the determined storage layer based upon the metadata of the logical volume.
12. A computer program product, comprising: a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, the computer readable program code executable by a processor and comprising: computer readable program code configured to receive, from an application, information for storage in a storage management system, wherein the storage management system comprises a plurality of storage layers, each storage layer having a different performance and a different cost than the other storage layers; computer readable program code configured to label, using a classification algorithm, the information with one of a plurality of labels relevant to the application; computer readable program code configured to assign the information a performance tolerance value based upon the label of the information, wherein the performance tolerance value comprises an estimate of the performance requirement required by the application storing the information; computer readable program code configured to determine, based upon the performance tolerance value of the information, a storage layer for storage of the information, wherein the determining comprises identifying one of the plurality of storage layers corresponding to the label of the information and updating metadata of a logical volume corresponding to the information with the performance tolerance value; and computer readable program code configured to send the information to the determined storage layer based upon the metadata of the logical volume.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the labeling comprises using user feedback received with the information to label the information.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the labeling comprises chunking the information into application specific data groups; and the computer program code comprising assigning a performance tolerance value to each of the chunks of information by determining a data access requirement needed while accessing the corresponding data chunk.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, comprising changing the assigned performance tolerance value of the information based upon user feedback.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, comprising moving the information to a storage layer different than the determined storage layer based upon the changed performance tolerance value.
17. The computer program product of claim 12, comprising sending the information to a storage layer having different performance if the determined storage layer is full.
18. The computer program product of claim 12, comprising moving the information to a different storage layer upon accessing the information after it is stored, wherein the moving comprises skipping at least one storage layer.
19. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the sending comprises updating, in kernel-space, metadata within the storage management system with the performance tolerance value.
20. A method, comprising: receiving application information for storage in a storage system comprising a plurality of storage tiers, each storage tier having a different performance and a different cost to the application than the other storage tiers; determining a storage tier within the storage system for storage of the application information by: classifying the application information to a storage tier by using a machine learning storage tier classifier that maps the application information to a storage tier based upon a function learned during the training phase of the machine learning storage tier classifier; assigning a performance tolerance value to the information based upon the performance requirements of an application storing the application information, wherein the performance tolerance value is based upon the classified storage tier; updating metadata of a logical volume corresponding to the application information with the assigned performance value; and identifying a storage tier corresponding to the classification; and storing the application information in the determined storage tier.
</claims>
</document>
