<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06Q20/30,H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONGAONKAR, GAURAV
BHASKAR, RAMESH
JAISWAL, PRANAY
SALUJA, NEERAJ
PATEL, SITANSH R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70774996
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamically generating system-compatible transaction requests derived from external information
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, and processor-readable storage media for dynamically generating system-compatible transaction requests derived from external information are provided herein. An example computer-implemented method includes converting portions of a transaction request to items of text, wherein the transaction request is derived from a source external to a transaction request processing system; extracting items of information associated with the transaction request processing system from the items of text via one or more machine learning algorithms; dynamically generating a modified version of the transaction request based at least in part on the extracted items of information and one or more items of historical information related to the extracted items of information, wherein the modified version of the transaction request is compatible with the transaction request processing system; and outputting the modified version of the transaction request to the transaction request processing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising steps of: converting one or more portions of a transaction request to one or more items of text, wherein the transaction request is derived from a source external to a transaction request processing system; extracting one or more items of information associated with the transaction request processing system from the one or more items of text via one or more machine learning algorithms; dynamically generating a modified version of the transaction request based at least in part on the one or more extracted items of information and one or more items of historical information related to the one or more extracted items of information, wherein the modified version of the transaction request is compatible with the transaction request processing system and wherein dynamically generating the modified version of the transaction request comprises automatically performing one or move validation operations on the modified version of the transaction request by analyzing the modified version of the transaction request with respect to multiple validation points and updating, based at least in part on related historical transaction data, at least a portion of the modified version of the transaction request responsive to the analysis with respect to the multiple validation points; and outputting the modified version of the transaction request to the transaction request processing system; wherein the steps are performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising enabling manual validation of the one or more items of text by one or more users via a user interface.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising enabling manual updating of the modified version of the transaction request by one or more users via a user interface.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein converting the one or more portions of the transaction request to one or more items of text comprises applying one or more optical character recognition techniques to at least the one or more portions of the transaction request.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more portions of the transaction request comprise one or more images of textual input.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the source external to a transaction request processing system comprises at least one of a facsimile source and an email source.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein converting the one or more portions of the transaction request to one or more items of text comprises automatically converting the one or more portions of the transaction request to one or more items of text in a commerce extensible markup language format.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of text comprises one or more items of text indicating at least one of one or more customer numbers, stock keeping unit information, one or more shipping methods, and one or more product identification numbers.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of information comprises one or more items of information required by the transaction request processing system for processing a transaction request.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of information comprises one or more items of code information specific to at least one of an entity submitting the transaction request and the transaction request processing system.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising retrieving the one or more items of historical information from a database related to the transaction request processing system based on the one or more items of extracted code information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of historical information comprise one or more items of historical information specific to at least one entity identified in the transaction request.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the modified version of the transaction request comprises mapping the one or more items of historical information to the one or more extracted items of information.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the modified version of the transaction request comprises populating a template specific to the transaction request processing system with the one or more extracted items of information and the one or more items of historical information.
15. A non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having stored therein program code of one or more software programs, wherein the program code when executed by at least one processing device causes said at least one processing device: to convert one or more portions of a transaction request to one or more items of text, wherein the transaction request is derived from a source external to a transaction request processing system; to extract one or more items of information associated with the transaction request processing system from the one or more items of text via one or more machine learning algorithms; to dynamically generate a modified version of the transaction request based at least in part on the one or more extracted items of information and one or more items of historical information related to the one or more extracted items of information, wherein the modified version of the transaction request is compatible with the transaction request processing system, and wherein dynamically generating the modified version of the transaction request comprises automatically performing one or move validation operations on the modified version of the transaction request by analyzing the modified version of the transaction request with respect to multiple validation points and updating, based at least in part on related historical transaction data, at least a portion of the modified version of the transaction request responsive to the analysis with respect to the multiple validation points; and to output the modified version of the transaction request to the transaction request processing system.
16. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the program code further causes said at least one processing device: to enable manual validation of the one or more items of text by one or more users via a user interface.
17. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the program code further causes said at least one processing device: to enable manual updating of the modified version of the transaction request by one or more users via a user interface.
18. An apparatus comprising: at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory; said at least one processing device being configured: to convert one or more portions of a transaction request to one or more items of text, wherein the transaction request is derived from a source external to a transaction request processing system; to extract one or more items of information associated with the transaction request processing system from the one or more items of text via one or more machine learning algorithms; to dynamically generate a modified version of the transaction request based at least in part on the one or more extracted items of information and one or more items of historical information related to the one or more extracted items of information, wherein the modified version of the transaction request is compatible with the transaction request processing system, and wherein dynamically generating the modified version of the transaction request comprises automatically performing one or move validation operations on the modified version of the transaction request by analyzing the modified version of the transaction request with respect to multiple validation points and updating, based at least in part on related historical transaction data, at least a portion of the modified version of the transaction request responsive to the analysis with respect to the multiple validation points; and to output the modified version of the transaction request to the transaction request processing system.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one processing device is further configured: to enable manual validation of the one or more items of text by one or more users via a user interface.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one processing device is further configured: to enable manual updating of the modified version of the transaction request by one or more users via a user interface.
</claims>
</document>
