<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREWS, PETER
SHARMA, SAMEERKUMAR
ERMAN, BILGEHAN
CILLI, BRUCE
ASGHAR, AHMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849425
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Regenerative telemetry method for resource reduction
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method for interpreting normal and errored segments of network measurement data differently, and processing network measurement data, including: receiving a first query for network measurement data; extracting compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the first query; decompressing the extracted compressed network measurement data; retrieving an error segment of raw network measurement data based upon the error metadata; and merging the error segment of raw network measurement data with the decompressed extracted compressed network measurement data to produce extracted network measurement data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing network measurement data, comprising: receiving a first query for network measurement data; extracting compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the first query; decompressing the extracted compressed network measurement data; retrieving an error segment of raw network measurement data based upon the error metadata; and merging the error segment of raw network measurement data with the decompressed extracted compressed network measurement data to produce extracted network measurement data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the repository, the compressed network measurement data and the error metadata for a network object.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising compressing network measurement data and transmitting the compressed network measurement data to the repository.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by a monitoring system, the error segment of raw network measurement data from a network object.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising detecting an error in the network measurement data and sending only the error segment of network measurement data to the monitoring system.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein detecting the error includes filtering the network measurement data using thresholds.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second query for network measurement data; extracting compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the second query; decompressing the extracted compressed network measurement data from the second query; determining that the decompressed network measurement data from the second query has a specified accuracy; and outputting the decompressed network measurement data from the second query as the extracted network measurement data.
8. A telemetry system, comprising: a repository module configured to receive compressed network measurement data and error metadata; a query module configured to receive a query for network measurement data and to extract compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the query; a decompression module configured to decompress the extracted compressed network measurement data; an error retrieval module configured to retrieve an error segment of raw network measurement data based upon the error metadata; and a fusion module configured to merge the error segment of raw network measurement data with the decompressed extracted compressed network measurement data.
9. The telemetry system of claim 8, further comprising a monitoring system configured to receive the error segment of raw network measurement data from a network object.
10. The telemetry system of claim 9, further comprising a compression module configured to compress the network measurement data and transmit the compressed network measurement data to the repository.
11. The telemetry system of claim 8, further comprising an error detection module configured to detect an error in the network measurement data and send only the error segment of network measurement data to the monitoring system.
12. The telemetry system of claim 11, wherein detecting the error includes filtering the network measurement data using thresholds.
13. The telemetry system of claim 11, further comprising a compression module configured to compress the network measurement data and transmit the compressed network measurement data to the repository.
14. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for processing network measurement data, comprising: instructions for receiving a first query for network measurement data; instructions for extracting compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the first query; instructions for decompressing the extracted compressed network measurement data; instructions for retrieving an error segment of raw network measurement data based upon the error metadata; and instructions for merging the error segment of raw network measurement data with the decompressed extracted compressed network measurement data to produce extracted network measurement data.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions for receiving, by the repository, the compressed network measurement data and the error metadata for a network object.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions for compressing network measurement data and transmitting the compressed network measurement data to the repository.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions for receiving, by a monitoring system, the error segment of raw network measurement data from a network object.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions for detecting an error in the network measurement data and sending only the error segment of network measurement data to the monitoring system.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein detecting the error includes filtering the network measurement data using thresholds.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim of claim 14, further comprising: instructions for receiving a second query for network measurement data; instructions for extracting compressed network measurement data and error metadata from a repository database based upon the second query; instructions for decompressing the extracted compressed network measurement data from the second query; instructions for determining that the decompressed network measurement data from the second query has a specified accuracy; and instructions for outputting the decompressed network measurement data from the second query as the extracted network measurement data.
</claims>
</document>
