<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,H04M1/00,H04M1/2745,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMANTEA, ANTHONY ARRIGO
ANDREWS, LUKE EDWARD
BARAN, CHRISTOPHER HAYDEN
CAPUANA, NICOLE LISA
GERACE, SAMUEL PHILIP
MCMASTER, JAMESON STEPHEN
NIRO, RYAN MICHAEL
ROTHHAAR, RICHARD EDWARD
YESKO, ERICA PATRICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMANTEA, ANTHONY ARRIGO
ANDREWS, LUKE EDWARD
BARAN, CHRISTOPHER HAYDEN
CAPUANA, NICOLE LISA
GERACE, SAMUEL PHILIP
MCMASTER, JAMESON STEPHEN
NIRO, RYAN MICHAEL
ROTHHAAR, RICHARD EDWARD
YESKO, ERICA PATRICE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60158673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cloud-based contacts management
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments disclosed herein provide for a system for managing and adding contacts. A first mobile device can display an image that can be recorded by a second mobile device. Similarly, the first mobile device can record an image displayed by the second mobile device. The image data from each mobile device can be transmitted to a cloud based contact management system, which can match the images to contact information associated with each mobile device. The contact management system can then push the contact details of each mobile device to the other mobile device, and/or link social media accounts associated with each mobile device. The contact management system can also store connection records that represent an ongoing authorization to push contact information changes from each user to the other, respectively.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device, comprising: a memory having stored thereon computer executable components; a processor that executes at least the following computer executable components: an initiation component that receives initiation data via a wireless transmission, representative of a first initiation request, from another mobile device; and a network component that: transmits the initiation data and confirmation data to a contact management server, and receives first contact data associated with the other mobile device and an indication that second contact data associated with the mobile device has been shared with the other mobile device, and wherein the first contact data is associated with a first profile of a first entity associated with the other mobile device selected from a plurality of profiles of the first entity based on a first relationship type between the first entity and a second entity associated with the mobile device.
2. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the initiation data comprises image data.
3. The mobile device of claim 2, further comprising: an imaging component that receives the image data from a camera on the mobile device, and analyzes the image data to generate the initiation data associated with the image data.
4. The mobile device of claim 1, further comprising: a contact component that updates a contact list based on the first contact data.
5. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the confirmation data comprises user feedback data indicating acceptance of a connection request.
6. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the confirmation data comprises location data indicating that a distance between the mobile device and the other mobile device is less than a predefined distance.
7. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the network component receives modified first contact data associated with the other mobile device based on a change from the first relationship type to a second relationship type between the first entity and the second entity, and wherein the modified first contact data is associated with a second profile of the plurality of profiles of the first entity, and the first relationship type is different from the second relationship type.
8. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the first relationship type and the second relationship type as at least two of a work relationship, a family relationship, a friend relationship, or a client relationship.
9. The mobile device of claim 1, further comprising: a prompting component that sends a prompt in response to determining that the other mobile device is within a predefined range and is associated with a first contact within a predefined degree of separation from a second contact associated with the second contact data.
10. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the predefined criterion associated with contact sharing is related to a likelihood of contact sharing acceptance.
11. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the predefined criterion associated with matching the initiation data to saved initiation data corresponds to the second contact data associated with the other mobile device.
12. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first mobile device comprising a processor, initiation data via a wireless transmission, representative of a first initiation request, from a second mobile device; transmitting, by the first mobile device, the initiation data and confirmation data to a contact management server; and receiving, by the first mobile device, first contact data associated with the second mobile device and an indication that second contact data associated with the first mobile device has been shared with the second mobile device, and wherein the first contact data is associated with a first profile of a first entity associated with the second mobile device selected from a plurality of profiles of the first entity based on a first relationship type between the first entity and a second entity associated with the first mobile device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the first mobile device, image data from a camera on the first mobile device, and analyzing the image data to generate the initiation data.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: updating, by the first mobile device, a contact list based on the first contact data.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the confirmation data comprises user feedback data indicating acceptance of a connection request.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the confirmation data comprises location data indicating that a distance between the first mobile device and the second mobile device is less than a predefined distance.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the confirmation data comprises connection data indicating that the first contact associated with the first mobile device is within a predefined degree of separation from a second contact associated with the second mobile device.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution, cause a first mobile device comprising a processor to perform operations comprising: receiving initiation data via a wireless transmission, representative of a first initiation request, from a second mobile device; transmitting the initiation data and confirmation data to a contact management server; and receiving first contact data associated with the second mobile device and an indication that second contact data associated with the first mobile device has been shared with the second mobile device, and wherein the first contact data is associated with a first profile of a first entity associated with the second mobile device selected from a plurality of profiles of the first entity based on a first relationship type between the first entity and a second entity associated with the first mobile device.
19. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 18, wherein the confirmation data comprises connection data indicating that the first contact associated with the first mobile device is within a predefined degree of separation from a second contact associated with the second mobile device.
20. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving image data from a camera on the first mobile device, and analyzing the image data to generate the initiation data.
</claims>
</document>
