<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2003-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L12/18,H04L12/58,H04L29/08,H04L29/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PLAXO
</assignee>

<inventors>
RING, CAMERON, T.
MASONIS, JOHN, T.
CAREY, RICHARD, J.
PARKER, SEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
36146603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Viral engine for network deployment
</title>

<abstract>
A private network system operates over a public network to provide an asymmetric service to members with information from other members and non-members. The system includes central servers and databases connected via the public network to client systems of public network users. The users may be members who communicate with a private protocol or non-members who communicate with the public protocol. A process for the private service includes communication of information between users via the private service servers. The private service server implements the private service, which includes a viral engine for network deployment. Features of the viral engine include genetic algorithms, data mining, personalization, frictionless service setup, user maximization, and member-controlled privacy. A sample setup process and contact update wizard that include several viral engine features are described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by a computing device and based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determining, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; determining a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate; and causing sending, to at least a subset of the target users and based on the determining the highest response rate and the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the target users is based on an electronic mailbox of the user.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining, based on the electronic mailbox, one or more additional target users for receipt of the determined advertisement; and causing sending, to the one or more additional target users, the determined advertisement.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, adding the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on a determination that at least one of the target users has a familial relationship with the user, adding the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the determined advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the determined advertisement.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a report comprising a frequency bar graphically representing a frequency of electronic mail communication with the target users.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the target users comprises performing analysis of electronic mail messages within electronic mail folders of the user to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the determined advertisement.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, after the causing the sending of the determined advertisement, contact information associated with a target user of the subset of the target users.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: designating, based on input received from the user, a set of contacts, in a contact list of the user, to be updated; causing sending, to members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, a request to verify contact information; and causing sending, to non-members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, an electronic mail message asking the non-members to provide current contact information in a reply electronic mail message, wherein the electronic mail message comprises a fill-in-the-blank form.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on whether the subset of the target users responded to the determined advertisement, whether the determined advertisement elicited a response from the subset of the target users; and updating, based on a quantity of the target users that responded to the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined advertisement is an automatically-generated advertisement, the method further comprising: causing sending, to the user, an option to edit the automatically-generated advertisement.
13. A method comprising: determining, by a computing device and based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determining, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, causing sending, to the at least one of the target users, an advertisement associated with the electronic contact network.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining the target users is based on an electronic mailbox associated with the user.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining the target users comprises performing analysis of electronic mail messages within electronic mail folders of the user to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the advertisement.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; and determining a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is the determined advertisement.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selecting, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the advertisement.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is an automatically-generated advertisement, the method further comprising: causing sending, to the user, an option to edit the automatically-generated advertisement.
19. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: determine, based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determine, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; determine a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate; and cause sending, to at least a subset of the target users, and based on the highest response rate and the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to determine the target users by determining, further based on an electronic mailbox of the user, the target users.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: determine, based on the electronic mailbox, one or more additional target users for receipt of the determined advertisement; and cause sending, to the one or more additional target users, the determined advertisement.
22. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: determine, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, add the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
23. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: based on a determination that at least one of the target users has a familial relationship with the user, add the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
24. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: select, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the determined advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the determined advertisement.
25. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: generate a report comprising a frequency bar graphically representing a frequency of electronic mail communication with the target users.
26. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to determine the target users by performing analysis of electronic mail messages, within electronic mail folders of the user, to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the determined advertisement.
27. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: receive, after causing the sending of the determined advertisement, contact information associated with a target user of the subset of the target users.
28. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: designate, based on input received from the user, a set of contacts, in a contact list of the user, to be updated; cause sending, to members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, a request to verify contact information; and cause sending, to non-members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, an electronic mail message asking the non-members to provide current contact information in a reply electronic mail message, wherein the electronic mail message comprises a fill-in-the-blank form.
29. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: determine, based on whether the at least the subset of the target users responded to the determined advertisement, whether the determined advertisement elicited a response from the at least the subset of the target users; and update, based on a quantity of the target users that responded to the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
30. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the determined advertisement is an automatically-generated advertisement, and the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: cause sending, to the user, an option to edit the automatically-generated advertisement.
31. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: determine, based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determine, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, cause sending, to the at least one of the target users, an advertisement associated with the electronic contact network.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to determine the target users by determining, based on an electronic mailbox associated with the user, the target users.
33. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to determine the target users by performing analysis of electronic mail messages, within electronic mail folders of the user, to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the advertisement.
34. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: determine, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; and determine a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is the determined advertisement.
35. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: select, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the advertisement.
36. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is an automatically-generated advertisement, and the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: select, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the advertisement.
37. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause: determining, based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determining, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; determining a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate; and sending, to at least a subset of the target users and based on the determining the highest response rate and the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
38. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the determining the target users based on an electronic mailbox of the user.
39. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 38, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: determining, based on the electronic mailbox, one or more additional target users for receipt of the determined advertisement; and sending, to the one or more additional target users, the determined advertisement.
40. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: determining, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, adding the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
41. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: based on a determination that at least one of the target users has a familial relationship with the user, adding the at least one of the target users to the subset of the target users.
42. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: selecting, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the determined advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the determined advertisement.
43. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: generating a report comprising a frequency bar graphically representing a frequency of electronic mail communication with the target users.
44. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the determining the target users by: performing analysis of electronic mail messages within electronic mail folders of the user to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the determined advertisement.
45. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: receiving, after the causing the sending of the determined advertisement, contact information associated with a target user of the subset of the target users.
46. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: designating, based on input received from the user, a set of contacts, in a contact list of the user, to be updated; sending, to members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, a request to verify contact information; and sending, to non-members of the electronic contact network associated with the set of contacts, an electronic mail message asking the non-members to provide current contact information in a reply electronic mail message, wherein the electronic mail message comprises a fill-in-the-blank form.
47. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: determining, based on whether the subset of the target users responded to the determined advertisement, whether the determined advertisement elicited a response from the subset of the target users; and updating, based on a quantity of the target users that responded to the determined advertisement, the determined advertisement.
48. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 37, wherein the determined advertisement is an automatically-generated advertisement, and wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: sending, to the user, an option to edit the automatically-generated advertisement.
49. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause: determining, based on an electronic contact network of a user, target users associated with the user; determining, for at least one of the target users, a frequency of responding to messages sent from the user; and based on a determination that the frequency satisfies a threshold, sending, to the at least one of the target users, an advertisement associated with the electronic contact network.
50. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 49, wherein the determining the target users is based on an electronic mailbox associated with the user.
51. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 49, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the determining the target users by: performing analysis of electronic mail messages within electronic mail folders of the user to determine target users that are not members of the electronic contact network or that are likely to respond to the advertisement.
52. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 49, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: determining, for each of a plurality of advertisements associated with the electronic contact network, a corresponding response rate that is based on a quantity of recipient users that responded to the advertisement after being sent the advertisement; and determining a highest response rate, of the response rates, and a determined advertisement corresponding to the highest response rate, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is the determined advertisement.
53. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 49, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: selecting, based on a determination that an aesthetic appeal related feature prompts a response to the advertisement, the aesthetic appeal related feature to be included in the advertisement.
54. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 49, wherein the advertisement sent to the at least one of the target users is an automatically-generated advertisement, and wherein the instructions, when executed, cause: sending, to the user, an option to edit the automatically-generated advertisement.
</claims>
</document>
