<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/583,G06F3/14,G06N20/00,G06Q20/32,G06T7/246,G06T7/521,G06T7/73,H04B5/00,H04M1/02,H04N5/247
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSBORN, KEVIN
HART, COLIN
HERRINGTON, DANIEL
RULE, JEFFREY
ILINCIC, RAJKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68696088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for guiding card positioning using phone sensors
</title>

<abstract>
A position alignment system facilitates positioning of a contactless card in a 'sweet spot' in a target volume relative to a contactless card reading device. Alignment logic uses information captured from available imaging devices such as infrared proximity detectors, cameras, infrared sensors, dot projectors, and the like to guide the card to a target location. The captured image information is processed to identify a card position, trajectory and predicted location using one or both of a machine learning model and/or a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping logic. Trajectory adjustment and prompt identification may be intelligently controlled and customized using machine-learning techniques to customize guidance based on the preference and/or historical behavior of the user. As a result, the speed and accuracy of contactless card alignment is improved and received NFC signal strength is maximized, thereby reducing the occurrence of dropped transactions.
</abstract>

<claims>
What we claim is:
1. A method for authenticating a transaction for a device includes the steps of: receiving a request to authenticate the device; displaying, on the device, a prompt to communicatively couple a card with the device; detecting, by a proximity sensor of the device, that the card is proximate to the device, the card storing authentication data for the device; capturing, by a camera of the device, a series of images as the card approaches the device; processing the series of images to determine a position and a trajectory of the card as the card approaches the device; detecting, based on the series of images, that the card is at a target location relative to the device; triggering an interface of the device to request an authentication cryptogram from the card when the card is detected at the target location; and receiving the authentication cryptogram from the card in response to the request, the authentication cryptogram formed from authentication data stored by the card.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of processing the series of images to determine the position and a trajectory of the card uses at least one of a machine learning model or a simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) process.
3. The method of claim 1 including enabling the proximity sensor in response to receipt of the request to authenticate the device.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the authentication data stored by the card includes a counter value, a shared secret, a key or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 4 including the step of: forwarding the authentication cryptogram to an authentication server, the authentication server maintaining a copy of the authentication data stored by the card; and receiving a transaction authorization when the authentication cryptogram is validated by the authentication server using the copy of the authentication data stored by the card.
6. The method of claim 1 including the step of initiating a transaction, and where the step of receiving a request to authenticate the device is received in response to the step of initiating a transaction.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of capturing the series of images is performed by one or more of a camera of the device, an infrared sensor of the device or a dot projector of the device, and wherein the series of images comprises one or both of two-dimensional image information and three-dimensional image information related to one or more of an infrared energy and a visible light energy measured at the device.
8. The method of claim 7 including the step of generating a volume map of a three-dimensional volume proximate to the device using the series of images obtained from one or more of the camera, the infrared sensor and the dot projector, the volume map comprising a pixel data for a plurality of pixel locations within the three-dimensional volume proximate to the device.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of processing the series of images to determine the position and the trajectory of the card includes the step of forwarding the series of images to a feature extraction machine learning model trained to process series of images to detect one or more features of the card and to identify the position and the trajectory of the card in response to the detected one or more features.
10. The method of claim 9 including forwarding the series of images to a second machine learning model trained to predict the position and trajectory based on a historic attempt to position the card.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the historic attempt used to train the second machine learning model is customized to a user of the device.
12. A device comprising: a proximity sensor configured to detect whether a card is proximate to the device; an image capture device coupled to the proximity sensor and configured to capture a series of images of a three-dimensional volume proximate to the device; a processor coupled to the proximity sensor and the image capture device; a display interface coupled to the processor; a card reader interface coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory medium storing program code configured to trigger a read of a card that stores authentication data when the card is in a target location relative to the device, the program code operable when executed upon by the processor to: receive a request to authenticate the device; display, on the display interface, a prompt to communicatively couple a card with the device; detect, by the proximity sensor, that the card is proximate to the device; capture, by a camera of the device, a series of images as the card approaches the device; processing the series of images to determine a position and a trajectory of the card as the card approaches the device; detecting, based on the series of images, that the card is at a target location relative to the device; triggering the card reader interface to request an authentication cryptogram from the card; and receiving the authentication cryptogram from the card by the card reader interface when the card is detected at the target location.
13. The device off claim 12 wherein the program code that is operable when executed upon to process the series of images to determine the position and a trajectory of the card within the three-dimensional volume proximate to the device uses at least one of a machine learning model or a simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) process.
14. The device of claim 12 wherein the image capture device comprises one or more of a camera, an infrared sensor or a dot projector, and the series of images capture one or more of an infrared energy and a visible light energy measured at the device.
15. The device of claim 14 wherein the series of images comprise one or both of two-dimensional image information and three-dimensional image information.
16. The device of claim 12 wherein the program code comprises a feature extraction machine learning model trained to process the series of images to detect one or more features of the card and to identify the position and the trajectory of the card in response to the detected one or more features.
17. The device of claim 16 wherein the program code further comprises a predictive machine learning model that is trained to determine the position and trajectory of the card based on past uses of the card with the device.
18. The device of claim 17 wherein past uses of the card are limited to uses of the card by a specific individual.
19. The device of claim 12 wherein the prompt includes a visible prompt, an audible prompt, or a combination thereof.
20. A method for authenticating a transaction using authentication information stored by a contactless card includes the steps of: detecting a request by a device to perform a transaction; generating, by the device, a prompt to engage the contactless card; enabling a proximity sensor of the device to detect a contactless card approach; capturing a series of images by the device in response to detection of the contactless card by approach the proximity sensor; processing the series of images to detect when the contactless card is within a target location using a predictive model trained using historic communications between the contactless card and the device; and retrieving an authentication cryptogram from the contactless card when the series of images indicate that the contactless card is within the target location.
</claims>
</document>
