<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
APPEL, ANA P.
GAMA LEAL, ANDRE
SANTOS SOUZA, RENAN FRANCISCO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60483365
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting user question in question and answer system
</title>

<abstract>
A question database storing questions and a conditional probability of one question to be asked given that a previous question was asked is searched to predict a future question based on the conditional probability stored in the question database given an input question as the previous question. The future question is suggested to a user. Responsive to receiving an acceptance of the future question, the question database is updated to strengthen the conditional probability associated with the future question occurring given the input question. An answer to the future question is provided and searching, predicting, suggesting and updating may be repeated, with the future question as the input question, until the future question is declined.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of predicting and presenting a future question in an automated question answering system, the method performed by one or more hardware processors, comprising: receiving an input question in the automated question answering system; providing an answer to the question; searching a question database storing questions and a conditional probability of one question to be asked given that a previous question was asked, for all questions in the question database, the conditional probability determined based on a supervised learning algorithm, natural language processing that determines distance metric between the questions, and user data obtained from a plurality of data sources; predicting the future question based on the conditional probability stored in the question database given the input question as the previous question; suggesting the future question on a user interface; responsive to receiving an acceptance of the future question, updating the question database to strengthen the conditional probability associated with the future question occurring given the input question; providing an answer to the future question; repeating the searching, the predicting, the suggesting and the updating, with the future question as the input question until the future question is declined.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the question database is structured as a directed weighted graph comprising nodes representing the questions and edges between the nodes representing links based on conditional probabilities between the questions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the question database is customized for a particular user in the particular user's current context, and the searching the question database comprises searching the customized question database.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the question database is initially built using domain knowledge, and the supervised learning algorithm is trained with a training data set comprising the initially built question database, the trained supervised learning algorithm building the question database based on additional available data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the natural language processing that determines distance metric between the questions, and the user data obtained from a plurality of data sources extend the training data set and the supervised learning algorithm is automatically retrained based on the extended training data set.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein responsive to not finding the answer to the input question, searching an external network for the answer to the input question, adding the input question to the question database, and correlating the input question with the conditional probability based on at least one of the supervised learning algorithm, the natural language processing and the user data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user data comprises social network data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user data comprises user interaction history with the automated question answering system.
9. A computer program product for predicting and presenting a future question in an automated question answering system, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions readable by a device to cause the device to perform a method comprising: receiving an input question in the automated question answering system; providing an answer to the question; searching a question database storing questions and a conditional probability of one question to be asked given that a previous question was asked, for all questions in the question database, the conditional probability determined based on a supervised learning algorithm, natural language processing that determines distance metric between the questions, and user data obtained from a plurality of data sources; predicting the future question based on the conditional probability stored in the question database given the input question as the previous question; suggesting the future question on a user interface; responsive to receiving an acceptance of the future question, updating the question database to strengthen the conditional probability associated with the future question occurring given the input question; providing an answer to the future question; repeating the searching, the predicting, the suggesting and the updating, with the future question as the input question until the future question is declined.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the question database is structured as a directed weighted graph comprising nodes representing the questions and edges between the nodes representing links based on conditional probabilities between the questions.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the question database is customized for a particular user in the particular user's current context, and the searching the question database comprises searching the customized question database.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the question database is initially built using domain knowledge, and the supervised learning algorithm is trained with a training data set comprising the initially built question database, the trained supervised learning algorithm building the question database based on additional available data.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the natural language processing that determines distance metric between the questions, and the user data obtained from a plurality of data sources extend the training data set and the supervised learning algorithm is automatically retrained based on the extended training data set.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein responsive to not finding the answer to the input question, searching an external network for the answer to the input question, adding the input question to the question database, and correlating the input question with the conditional probability based on at least one of the supervised learning algorithm, the natural language processing and the user data.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the external network comprises Internet.
16. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the user data comprises social network data, data obtained from a wearable device and global positioning system location data.
17. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the user data comprises user interaction history with the automated question answering system.
18. A system of predicting and presenting a future question in an automated question answering system, comprising: at least one hardware processor coupled to a communication network; a storage device coupled to the at least one hardware processor; the at least one hardware processor operable to receive an input question in the automated question answering system; the at least one hardware processor further operable to provide an answer to the question; the at least one hardware processor further operable to search a question database storing in the storage device, questions and a conditional probability of one question to be asked given that a previous question was asked, for all questions in the question database, the conditional probability determined based on a supervised learning algorithm, natural language processing that determines distance metric between the questions, and user data obtained from a plurality of data sources; the at least one hardware processor further operable to predict the future question based on the conditional probability stored in the question database given the input question as the previous question; the at least one hardware processor further operable to suggest the future question on a user interface; responsive to receiving an acceptance of the future question, the at least one hardware processor further operable to update the question database to strengthen the conditional probability associated with the future question occurring given the input question; the at least one hardware processor further operable to provide an answer to the future question; the at least one hardware processor further operable to repeat the searching, the predicting, the suggesting and the updating, with the future question as the input question until the future question is declined.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the question database is structured as a directed weighted graph comprising nodes representing the questions and edges between the nodes representing links based on conditional probabilities between the questions.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the question database is customized for a particular user in the particular user's current context, and the searching the question database comprises searching the customized question database.
</claims>
</document>
