<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W30/18,B60W40/04,G01C21/32,G01C21/34,G05D1/02,G08G1/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GROSS, DREW
LUJAN, ERIC
WEINSTEIN-RAUN, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62193055
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for unprotected maneuver mitigation in autonomous vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and method are provided for controlling a vehicle. In various embodiments, a method of path planning for a vehicle includes receiving sensor data relating to an environment associated with the vehicle; defining a region of interest for the vehicle, based on the sensor data; defining a graph comprising a plurality of nodes, each of the plurality of nodes comprising a state of the vehicle and an associated cost, based on a cost function as applied to the state of the vehicle, at one of a plurality of points in time; and performing, via a processor, a search of the graph, based on the associated costs of each node of the graph, to determine a selected path for the vehicle through the region of interest that minimizes a total cost via the graph.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of path planning for a vehicle, the method comprising: receiving sensor data relating to an environment associated with the vehicle; defining a region of interest for the vehicle surrounding an intended maneuver for the vehicle, based on the sensor data; constructing, via a processor, a lattice solver graph comprising a lattice of a plurality of connected nodes and transitions therebetween, each of the plurality of connected nodes comprising a time and a corresponding state of the vehicle, each state including a position and a velocity of the vehicle and nearby objects at a time corresponding to a particular node, and each transition representing an acceleration of the vehicle between respective connected nodes; wherein a first node representing a current time and a current state of the vehicle, wherein each subsequent node is dependent upon on one or more prior nodes; generating, via the processor, a directed graph that includes a respective associated cost with each of the connected nodes and with transitions therebetween of the lattice solver graph, based on a cost function as applied to the state of the vehicle, at one of a plurality of points in time corresponding to a respective node; and performing, via the processor, a search of the directed graph, based on the associated costs of each node of the lattice solver graph, to determine a selected path for the vehicle through the region of interest that minimizes a total cost via the directed graph and the lattice solver graph.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a set of predicted object paths of one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest; wherein the step of constructing the lattice solver graph comprises defining the graph using the set of predicted object paths of the one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest; and wherein the cost function is based on each of occupant comfort, energy usage, and a distance between the vehicle and the one or more objects.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of constructing the lattice solver graph comprises defining the lattice solver graph using an acceleration of the vehicle at different future points in time, utilizing a time step, such that different nodes are connected based on the acceleration of the vehicle at the different future points of time following various iterations of the time step.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of constructing the lattice solver graph comprises defining the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, a corresponding state comprising the acceleration of the vehicle and a position and velocity of the vehicle at a particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: ignoring or deleting, from the lattice solver graph, any nodes for which the velocity of the vehicle is less than a predetermined minimum threshold speed or is greater than a predetermined maximum threshold speed.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the step of constructing the lattice solver graph comprises defining the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, the corresponding state comprising a proximity to one or more objects in the region of interest, in addition to the position, velocity, and acceleration of the vehicle at the particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle, and the method further comprises: automatically implementing the selected path, via instructions provided by the processor, for the autonomous vehicle to travel through the region of interest.
8. A system for path planning for a vehicle, the system comprising: a region of interest determination module configured to at least facilitate: receiving sensor data relating to an environment associated with the vehicle; and defining a region of interest for the vehicle surrounding an intended maneuver for the vehicle, based on the sensor data; and a graph construction and analysis module coupled to the region of interest determination module and configured to at least facilitate: constructing, via a processor, a lattice solver graph comprising a lattice of a plurality of connected nodes and transitions therebetween, each of the plurality of connected nodes comprising a time and a corresponding state of the vehicle each state including a position and a velocity of the vehicle and nearby objects at a time corresponding to a particular node, and each transition representing an acceleration of the vehicle between respective connected nodes; wherein a first node representing a current time and a current state of the vehicle, wherein each subsequent node is dependent upon on one or more prior nodes; generating, via the processor, a directed graph that includes a respective associated cost with each of the connected nodes and with transitions therebetween of the lattice solver graph, based on a cost function as applied to the state of the vehicle, at one of a plurality of points in time corresponding to a respective node; and performing, via the processor, a search of the directed graph, based on the associated costs of each node of the lattice solver graph, to determine a selected path for the vehicle through the region of interest that minimizes a total cost via the directed graph and the lattice solver graph.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising: an object path determination module configured to at least facilitate determining a set of predicted object paths of one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest; wherein the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate constructing the lattice solver graph using the set of predicted object paths of the one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate constructing the lattice solver graph using an acceleration of the vehicle at different future points in time, utilizing a time step, such that different nodes are connected based on the acceleration of the vehicle at the different future points of time following various iterations of the time step.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate constructing the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, a corresponding state comprising the acceleration of the vehicle in addition to a position and velocity of the vehicle at a particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate ignoring or deleting, from the lattice solver graph, any nodes for which the velocity of the vehicle is less than a predetermined minimum threshold speed or is greater than a predetermined maximum threshold speed.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate constructing the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, the corresponding state comprising a proximity to one or more objects in the region of interest, in addition to the position, velocity, and acceleration of the vehicle at the particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle, and the graph construction and analysis module is configured to at least facilitate automatically implementing the selected path, via instructions provided by the processor, for the autonomous vehicle to travel through the region of interest.
15. An autonomous vehicle, comprising: at least one sensor that provides sensor data; and a controller that is configured, by a processor, based on the sensor data, to: define a region of interest for the autonomous vehicle surrounding an intended maneuver for the autonomous vehicle; construct a lattice solver graph comprising a lattice of a plurality of connected nodes and transitions therebetween, each of the plurality of connected nodes comprising a time and a corresponding state of the autonomous vehicle, each state including a position and a velocity of the autonomous vehicle and nearby objects at a time corresponding to a particular node, and each transition representing an acceleration of the vehicle between respective connected nodes; wherein a first node representing a current time and a current state of the autonomous vehicle, wherein each subsequent node is dependent upon on one or more prior nodes; generate a directed graph that includes a respective associated cost with each of the connected nodes and with transitions therebetween of the lattice solver graph, based on a cost function as applied to the state of the autonomous vehicle, at one of a plurality of points in time corresponding to a respective node; perform a search of the directed graph, based on the associated costs of each node of the lattice solver graph, to determine a selected path for the autonomous vehicle through the region of interest that minimizes a total cost via the directed graph and the lattice solver graph; and automatically implement the selected path for the autonomous vehicle to travel through the region of interest.
16. The autonomous vehicle of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to: determine a set of predicted object paths of one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest; and construct the lattice solver graph using the set of predicted object paths of the one or more objects likely to intersect the region of interest.
17. The autonomous vehicle of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured to construct the lattice solver graph using an acceleration of the autonomous vehicle at different future points in time, utilizing a time step, such that different nodes are connected based on the acceleration of the autonomous vehicle at the different future points of time following various iterations of the time step.
18. The autonomous vehicle of claim 17, wherein the controller is configured to construct the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, a corresponding state comprising the acceleration of the autonomous vehicle in addition to a position and velocity of the autonomous vehicle at a particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
19. The autonomous vehicle of claim 18, wherein the controller is configured to ignore or delete, from the lattice solver graph, any nodes for which the velocity of the autonomous vehicle is less than a predetermined minimum threshold speed or is greater than a predetermined maximum threshold speed.
20. The autonomous vehicle of claim 18, wherein the controller is configured to construct the lattice solver graph to include, for each node, the corresponding state comprising a proximity to one or more objects in the region of interest, in addition to the position, velocity, and acceleration of the autonomous vehicle at the particular one of the future points in time, along with the associated cost for the corresponding state.
</claims>
</document>
