<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, CHANG KYU
HAN, SEUNG JU
HAN, JAE JOON
CHANG, WONSUK
KO, MIN SU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66697026
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device and method to register user
</title>

<abstract>
A user registration device and method is disclosed. The user registration device compares an initial image stored in a database and a newly input candidate image, and determines whether to generate and manage an additional database based on the similarity between the initial image and the candidate image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; and adding the candidate image to an additional database, in response to the candidate image and the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command indicating a same object, wherein the adding of the candidate image comprises: calculating a matching score by comparing the candidate image and an additional registered image stored in the additional database; and determining whether to add the candidate image to the additional database based on the matching score, and wherein the determining of whether to add the candidate image to the additional database comprises: adding the candidate image to the additional database, in response to the matching score being in a reference range; and determining that the candidate image and the additional registered image are not similar to each other, in response to the matching score being out of the reference range.
2. The user registration method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining at least one of biometric data or a user input from the user; and generating the additional registration command, in response to the at least one of the biometric data being recognized or the user input being valid.
3. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; and adding the candidate image to an additional database, in response to the candidate image and the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command indicating a same object, wherein the method further comprises: obtaining an input image of the user and an input iris image of the user; and generating the additional registration command, in response to the input iris image matching a registered iris image, wherein the obtaining of the candidate image comprises: determining the input image corresponding to the input iris image to be the candidate image, in response to the additional registration command being generated.
4. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; and adding the candidate image to an additional database, in response to the candidate image and the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command indicating a same object, wherein the method further comprises: providing an interface recommending additional registration, in response to user recognition failing for more than a threshold number of times or more; and generating the additional registration command, in response to a user input being received through the interface.
5. The user registration method of claim 4, wherein the providing of the interface recommending the additional registration comprises: identifying an attribute causing the user recognition to fail; and providing an interface recommending generation of an additional database for the identified attribute.
6. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; and adding the candidate image to an additional database, in response to the candidate image and the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command indicating a same object, wherein the method further comprises: generating the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command, in response to the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command being absent and the candidate image and an initial image stored in an initial database being similar to each other.
7. The user registration method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the candidate image comprises: obtaining an input image comprising images of an object corresponding to the user; and selecting the candidate image from the input image.
8. The user registration method of claim 6, wherein the generating of the additional database comprises: calculating a matching score by comparing the candidate image and the initial image stored in the initial database; and determining whether to generate the additional database corresponding to the candidate image based on the matching score.
9. The user registration method of claim 8, wherein the determining of whether to generate the additional database comprises: generating the additional database comprising the candidate image, in response to the matching score exceeding a reference threshold; and determining that the candidate image indicates an object different from an object indicated by the initial database, in response to the matching score being less than or equal to the reference threshold.
10. The user registration method of claim 8, wherein the calculating of the matching score comprises: extracting, from the candidate image, feature data corresponding to the candidate image; extracting, from the initial database, feature data corresponding to the initial image; and calculating a similarity between the feature data corresponding to the candidate image and the feature data corresponding to the initial image.
11. The user registration method of claim 6, further comprising: determining attribute information of the candidate image, wherein the generating of the additional database comprises generating a database in which the attribute information of the candidate image is mapped.
12. The user registration method of claim 11, wherein the adding of the candidate image comprises: comparing the candidate image and an attribute image stored in an attribute database, in response to the attribute database corresponding to the attribute information being present; and adding the candidate image to the attribute database, in response to the candidate image and the attribute image being similar.
13. The user registration method of claim 11, further comprising: selecting an attribute database from the plurality of attribute databases, in response to a presence of the plurality of attribute databases; comparing the candidate image and an attribute image stored in the selected attribute database; adding the candidate image to the selected attribute database, in response to the candidate image and the attribute image being similar; and determining whether to add the candidate image to a remaining attribute database of the plurality of attribute databases.
14. The user registration method of claim 13, wherein the comparing of the candidate image and the attribute image comprises: increasing a minimum threshold to compare the candidate image and the attribute image, in response to the attribute information of the candidate image and attribute information of the attribute image being the same; and decreasing the minimum threshold to compare the candidate image and the attribute image, in response to the attribute information of the candidate image and the attribute information of the attribute image being different from each other.
15. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; and adding the candidate image to an additional database, in response to the candidate image and the additional database corresponding to the additional registration command indicating a same object, wherein the method further comprises: performing user recognition based on an input image of the user; and updating the initial database with the candidate image, in response to the candidate image selected from the input image being similar to an initial image stored in an initial database.
16. The user registration method of claim 1, wherein the adding of the candidate image comprises: adding the candidate image to the additional database, in response to a number of additional registered images stored in the additional database being less than a maximum number.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the user registration method of claim 1.
18. A user registration device comprising: an image acquirer configured to obtain a candidate image corresponding to a user, in response to an additional registration command; a processor configured to add the candidate image to an additional database corresponding to the additional registration command, in response to the candidate image and the additional database indicating a same object; and a memory configured to store the additional database, wherein the processor is further configured to: calculate a matching score by comparing the candidate image and an additional registered image stored in the additional database; add the candidate image to the additional database, in response to the matching score being in a reference range; and determine that the candidate image and the additional registered image are not similar to each other, in response to the matching score being out of the reference range.
19. A user registration method comprising: obtaining a candidate image based on capturing a portion of a user, in response to an additional registration command; extracting feature data from the candidate image; calculating, based on the feature data, a matching score between the candidate image and a registered image, in response to a presence of an additional database comprising the registered image; and adding the candidate image to the additional database, in response to the matching score being greater than a minimum threshold and lesser than a maximum threshold.
20. The user registration method of claim 19, wherein the additional database corresponds to an attribute of the candidate image.
21. The user registration method of claim 19, further comprising generating the additional registration command, in response to a pattern input by a user matching a registered pattern.
22. The user registration method of claim 19, the adding of the candidate image to the additional database comprises adding the candidate image to the additional database, in response to a number of images registered in the additional database being less than a threshold.
</claims>
</document>
