<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/483,G06F7/544
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGHAMMER MARTIN
GRIBOK, SERGEY
DENISENKO, DMITRY N.
PASCA, BOGDAN
BAECKLER, GREGG WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65230284
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods for using a multiplier to support multiple sub-multiplication operations
</title>

<abstract>
Integrated circuits with digital signal processing (DSP) blocks are provided. A DSP block may include one or more large multiplier circuits. A large multiplier circuit (e.g., an 18×18 or 18×19 multiplier circuit) may be used to support two or more smaller multiplication operations sharing one or two sets of multiplier operands, a complex multiplication, and a sum of two multiplications. If the multiplier products overflow and interfere with one another, correction operations can be performed. Partial products from two or more larger multiplier circuits can be used to combine decomposed partial products. A large multiplier circuit can also be used to support two floating-point mantissa multipliers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An integrated circuit, comprising: a multiplier circuit having a first input, a second input, and an output, wherein: the first input is configured to receive a first multiplicand and a second multiplicand; the second input is configured to receive a first multiplier and a second multiplier; the first multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate at least a first set of products, wherein the first and second multiplicands are separated by a sufficient number of zeroes so that the first set of products do not overlap with one another; and the second multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate at least a second set of products.
2. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein there is no overlap between the first and second sets of products.
3. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein: the first input is further configured to receive a third multiplicand and a fourth multiplicand; the first multiplier is also shared with the third and fourth multiplicands; and the second multiplier is also shared with the third and fourth multiplicands.
4. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the multiplier circuit is configured to implement a complex multiplication operation, and wherein the first and second products are used to compute a real part of the complex multiplication operation.
5. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein: the first multiplicand and the second multiplier are used to compute a first partial product; the second multiplicand and the first multiplier are used to compute a second partial product; and a sum of the first and second partial products are generated at the output of the multiplier circuit.
6. An integrated circuit, comprising: a multiplier circuit having a first input, a second input, and an output, wherein: the first input is configured to receive a first multiplicand and a second multiplicand; the second input is configured to receive a first multiplier and a second multiplier; the first multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate at least a first product at the output of the multiplier circuit; the second multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate at least a second product at the output of the multiplier circuit; the first multiplicand and the second multiplier are used to compute a first partial product; the second multiplicand and the first multiplier are used to compute a second partial product; a sum of the first and second partial products is generated at the output of the multiplier circuit; and the sum of the first and second partial products overflows into the second product.
7. The integrated circuit of claim 6, wherein the multiplier circuit is configured to correct the second product by accounting for the overflow from the sum of the first and second partial products.
8. The integrated circuit of claim 7, wherein correcting the second product by accounting for the overflow from the sum comprises performing an exclusive-OR operation and a subtraction operation.
9. The integrated circuit of claim 6, wherein the multiplier circuit is configured to only partially correct the second product using a subtractor that is smaller than the precision of the second product.
10. An integrated circuit, comprising: a multiplier circuit having a first input, a second input, and an output, wherein: the first input is configured to receive a first multiplicand and a second multiplicand; the second input is configured to receive a first multiplier and a second multiplier; the first multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate a first partial product; the second multiplier is shared between the first and second multiplicands to generate a second partial product; and the first and second partial products only partially overlap to produced bits at the output of the multiplier circuit.
11. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the first and second multipliers are separated by an adequate number of zeroes so that the second set of products do not overlap with the first set of products.
12. The integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the second multiplicand comprises a most significant multiplicand, wherein the second multiplier comprises a most significant multiplier, and wherein only the most significant multiplicand and the most significant multiplier are signed while the first multiplicand and the first multiplier are unsigned.
13. An integrated circuit, comprising: a first multiplier circuit having a first input configured to receive first and second multiplicands and a second input configured to receive a first multiplier and a first subset of a second multiplier; and a second multiplier circuit having a first input configured to receive the first and second multiplicands and a second input configured to receive a third multiplier and a second subset of the second multiplier that is different than the first subset.
14. The integrated circuit of claim 13, wherein the first multiplier and the second multiplier have the same number of bits.
15. The integrated circuit of claim 13, wherein outputs of the first and second multiplier circuits are combined to compute a first product of the first multiplicand and the second multiplier and to compute a second product of the second multiplicand and the second multiplier.
16. The integrated circuit of claim 13, wherein the first multiplier circuit directly outputs a first product of the first multiplicand and the first multiplier and also directly outputs a second product of the second multiplicand and the first multiplier.
17. The integrated circuit of claim 16, wherein the second multiplier circuit directly outputs a third product of the first multiplicand and the third multiplier and also directly outputs a fourth product of the second multiplicand and the third multiplier.
18. The integrated circuit of claim 16, wherein there is no overflow and no overlap between the first and second products.
19. An integrated circuit, comprising: a multiplier circuit operable to compute two floating-point mantissa multiplication operations, wherein: the multiplier circuit has a first input configured to receive first mantissa bits and second mantissa bits and has a second input configured to receive third mantissa bits and fourth mantissa bits; and the multiplier circuit is configured to compute a first partial product of the first and third mantissa bits, a second partial product of the first and fourth mantissa bits, a third partial product of the second the third mantissa bits, and a fourth partial product of the second and fourth mantissa bits, wherein the second partial product at least partially overlaps with the third partial product.
20. The integrated circuit of claim 19, wherein the second and third partial products interfere with least significant bits (LSBs) of the fourth partial product to form bits at an output of the multiplier circuit.
21. The integrated circuit of claim 19, wherein the second and third partial products interfere with most significant bits (MSBs) of the first partial product to form bits at the output of the multiplier circuit.
22. The integrated circuit of claim 21, further comprising a lookup table configure to determine the MSBs of the first partial product based on least significant bits (LSBs) of the second and third partial products.
23. The integrated circuit of claim 21, further comprising an adder circuit configure to determine the MSBs of the first partial product based on least significant bits (LSBs) of the second and third partial products.
24. The integrated circuit of claim 23, further comprising an additional adder circuit configured to compute the sum of the LSBs of the second and third partial products.
</claims>
</document>
