<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A23L5/10,A47J36/32,A47J37/06,F24C15/00,F24C3/12,F24C7/06,F24C7/08,H04W4/80,H05B1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUNE LIFE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHOGAL, NIKHIL
VAN HORN, MATTHEW
CLARK, CHRISTOPHER RUSSELL
SIVALINGAM, RAVISHANKAR
PARK, SEUNGHOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57218435
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Connected food preparation system and method of use
</title>

<abstract>
A connected oven, including a set of in-cavity sensors and a processor configured to automatically identify foodstuff within the cooking cavity, based on the sensor measurements; and automatically operate the heating element based on the foodstuff identity.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for operating a connected oven, comprising: at the oven, wherein the oven comprises a set of sensors: receiving a foodstuff at an internal cavity of the oven; at a remote system communicatively coupled to the oven: receiving a set of sensor measurements from the set of sensors, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera defining a field of view, the camera mounted to the oven top with the field of view directed toward the oven base; automatically generating a set of control instructions for the oven based on the set of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; transmitting the set of control instructions to the oven; at the oven: receiving the set of control instructions from the remote system, wherein the set of control instructions is associated with an identifier for the remote system; and dynamically operating the oven based on the set of control instructions; at the remote system: receiving a second set of sensor measurements from the oven during an operation of the oven; and transmitting the second set of sensor measurements to a user device separate and distinct from the oven.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a second set of control instructions based on the second set of sensor measurements; and transmitting the second set of control instructions to the oven, wherein the oven is dynamically operated according to the second set of control instructions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the second set of measurements comprises streaming the second set of sensor measurements from the remote system to the user device in near-real time.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising receiving an input from a user at a client application executing on the user device, and wherein the set of control instructions is dynamically updated based on the input.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the camera is arranged at a top surface of the internal cavity and defines a downward-facing field of view configured to image a superior surface of the foodstuff.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting a set of foodstuff options at a display associated with the oven, the display separate and distinct from a display of the user device, in response to receiving the image at the remote system, wherein the set of control instructions is further determined based on a selection of the set of foodstuff options by the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of sensors further comprises a temperature sensor configured to detect a temperature of the oven cavity and a temperature probe configured to detect a temperature of the foodstuff, and wherein the set of sensor measurements further comprises a set of temperatures.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising dynamically updating the set of control instructions based on the set of temperatures.
9. A method for controlling operation of a cooking appliance based on a set of cooking instructions, the method, comprising, at a remote system communicatively coupled to the cooking appliance: receiving a set of sensor measurements from a set of sensors mounted to the cooking appliance, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera arranged proximal to an internal cavity of the cooking appliance; automatically generating a set of control instructions for the cooking appliance based on the set of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; transmitting the set of control instructions to the cooking appliance, wherein the cooking appliance receives the set of control instructions from the remote system and dynamically operates based on the set of control instructions; and receiving a second set of sensor measurements sampled during an operation of the cooking appliance.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising updating the set of control instructions based on the second set of sensor measurements.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the camera is arranged at a top surface of the internal cavity and defines a downward-facing field of view configured to image a superior surface of a foodstuff.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising, at the remote system, receiving a series of inputs input by a user at a display of the cooking appliance, wherein the set of control instructions is further determined based on the series of inputs.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the series of inputs comprises a foodstuff type.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the set of sensors further comprises a temperature sensor configured to detect a temperature of the oven cavity and a temperature probe configured to detect a temperature of the foodstuff, and wherein the set of sensor measurements further comprises a set of temperatures.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising dynamically updating the set of control instructions based on the set of temperatures.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising presenting a set of foodstuff options at a display associated with the cooking appliance to a user in response to receiving the image at the remote system, wherein the set of control instructions is further determined based on a selection of the set of foodstuff options by the user.
17. The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving an input from a user at a client application executing on a user device separate and distinct from the cooking appliance and the remote system, and wherein the set of control instructions is dynamically updated based on the input.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein the set of sensor measurements comprise a stream of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprise a stream of control instructions, wherein subsequent control instructions are adjusted based on preceding sensor measurements, and wherein the control instructions are associated with an identifier for the remote system.
19. A method for controlling operation of a cooking appliance based on a set of cooking instructions, the method, comprising, at a remote system communicatively coupled to the cooking appliance: receiving a set of sensor measurements from a set of sensors mounted to the cooking appliance, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera arranged proximal to an internal cavity of the cooking appliance, wherein the camera is arranged at a top surface of the internal cavity and defines a downward-facing field of view configured to image a superior surface of a foodstuff; automatically generating a set of control instructions for the cooking appliance based on the set of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; transmitting the set of control instructions to the cooking appliance, wherein the cooking appliance receives the set of control instructions from the remote system and dynamically operates based on the set of control instructions.
20. A method for controlling operation of a cooking appliance based on a set of cooking instructions, the method, comprising, at a remote system communicatively coupled to the cooking appliance: receiving a set of sensor measurements from a set of sensors mounted to the cooking appliance, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera arranged proximal to an internal cavity of the cooking appliance, wherein the set of sensors further comprises a temperature sensor configured to detect a temperature of the oven cavity and a temperature probe configured to detect a temperature of the foodstuff, and wherein the set of sensor measurements further comprises a set of temperatures; automatically generating a set of control instructions for the cooking appliance based on the set of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; transmitting the set of control instructions to the cooking appliance, wherein the cooking appliance receives the set of control instructions from the remote system and dynamically operates based on the set of control instructions.
21. A method for controlling operation of a cooking appliance based on a set of cooking instructions, the method, comprising: at a remote system communicatively coupled to the cooking appliance: receiving a set of sensor measurements from a set of sensors mounted to the cooking appliance, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera arranged proximal to an internal cavity of the cooking appliance; automatically generating a set of control instructions for the cooking appliance based on the set of sensor measurements, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; transmitting the set of control instructions to the cooking appliance, wherein the cooking appliance receives the set of control instructions from the remote system and dynamically operates based on the set of control instructions; and receiving an input from a user at a client application executing on a user device separate and distinct from the cooking appliance and the remote system, and wherein the set of control instructions is dynamically updated based on the input.
22. A method for controlling operation of a cooking appliance based on a set of cooking instructions, the method, comprising: at a remote system communicatively coupled to the cooking appliance, receiving a set of sensor measurements from a set of sensors mounted to the cooking appliance, wherein the set of measurements includes an image recorded at a camera arranged proximal to an internal cavity of the cooking appliance; presenting a set of foodstuff options at a display associated with the cooking appliance to a user in response to receiving the image at the remote system; at the remote system, automatically generating a set of control instructions for the cooking appliance based on the set of sensor measurements and a selection of the set of foodstuff options by the user, wherein the set of control instructions comprises a set of cooking temperatures and a set of cooking times; and at the remote system, transmitting the set of control instructions to the cooking appliance, wherein the cooking appliance receives the set of control instructions from the remote system and dynamically operates based on the set of control instructions.
</claims>
</document>
