<document>

<filing_date>
2015-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/08,G06F21/40,G06F21/44,G06F21/45,H04W12/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAKUMOTO, KOICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55304056
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information processing device, information processing method, and information processing system for canceling device restriction based on similarity between feature-quantity vectors of associated devices
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided an information processing device, an information processing method, and an information processing system, which are capable of ensuring security and canceling a restriction through a simple procedure, the information processing device including: an acquisition unit that acquires a feature-quantity vector directly or indirectly indicating variations in a time series in at least one of a position and orientation of a housing of each of a plurality of different devices that are previously associated; and a controller that cancels a predetermined restriction set in advance, on the basis of the acquired feature-quantity vector corresponding to each of the plurality of devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing device comprising: an acquisition unit that acquires a feature-quantity vector directly or indirectly indicating variations in a time series in at least one of a position or an orientation of a housing of each device of a plurality of different devices that are previously associated with one another through a network; and a controller that cancels a predetermined restriction set in advance, on the basis of comparison of the acquired feature-quantity vector corresponding to each device of the plurality of devices, wherein the predetermined restriction is set by a lock function applied to at least one device of the plurality of devices, wherein the controller determines similarity between the acquired feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices on the basis of teacher data previously accumulated on the basis of machine learning and cancels the predetermined restriction on the basis of a result of the determination of similarity, and wherein the acquisition unit is implemented via at least one processor.
2. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the acquisition unit is installed in the housing of one of the plurality of devices and acquires, from another associated device linked to the device through the network, the feature-quantity vector corresponding to the other associated device.
3. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller determines the similarity on the basis of statistical distances between the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices.
4. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller determines the similarity on the basis of correlation in a time series between the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices.
5. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller determines the similarity on the basis of the relative quantity of information between the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices.
6. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller shifts at least one of the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices in a time series and determines the similarity on the basis of the shifted feature-quantity vector.
7. The information processing device according to claim 6, wherein the controller shifts at least one of the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices in the time series such that statistical distances between the feature-quantity vectors become smaller.
8. The information processing device according to claim 6, wherein the controller shifts at least one of the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices in the time series within a range that does not exceed a predefined time width.
9. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller performs a recognition process for recognizing whether the feature-quantity vector corresponding to each device of the plurality of devices indicates a feature of a predetermined variation in a time series in at least one of the position or the orientation of the housing of the corresponding device, for each of the feature-quantity vectors, and cancels the predetermined restriction set in advance on the basis of a result of the recognition process for each of the feature-quantity vectors.
10. The information processing device according to claim 1, further comprising: a feature extraction unit that extracts, from the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices, feature values indicating features of sample data in the feature-quantity vectors and generates new feature-quantity vectors on the basis of the extracted feature values, wherein the controller cancels the restriction on the basis of comparison between the new feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices, and wherein the feature extraction unit is implemented via at least one processor.
11. The information processing device according to claim 10, wherein the feature extraction unit extracts displacement in a principal component direction in the time series of sample data included in the feature-quantity vectors as the feature values on the basis of principal component analysis for the feature-quantity vectors.
12. The information processing device according to claim 10, wherein the feature extraction unit specifies a direction having a high correlation of displacement in the time series between the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices on the basis of canonical correlation analysis for the feature-quantity vectors, and extracts displacement in the specified direction in the time series of sample data included in the feature values as the feature-quantity values.
13. The information processing device according to claim 1, further comprising: a data interpolation unit that interpolates new sample data for the feature-quantity vectors on the basis of sample data indicating variations in the time series and included in the feature-quantity vectors, wherein the controller cancels the restriction on the basis of comparison between the feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices, for which the new sample data has been interpolated, and wherein the data interpolation unit is implemented via at least one processor.
14. The information processing device according to claim 13, wherein the data interpolation unit interpolates the new sample data for the feature-quantity vectors on the basis of polynomial interpolation.
15. The information processing device according to claim 13, wherein the data interpolation unit configures a model indicating the sample data included in the feature-quantity vectors on the basis of linear regression and interpolates the new sample data on the basis of the model.
16. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein at least one device of the plurality of devices is a wearable device configured to be worn on a body of a person when used.
17. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the acquired feature-quantity vector corresponding to each device comprises a waveform having a frequency spectrum indicating displacement of the device in the time series.
18. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the controller determines the similarity based on an identification function generated by a learning algorithm.
19. The information processing device according to claim 18, wherein the learning algorithm comprises at least one of: a machine learning algorithm; a linear support vector machine; a kernel support vector machine; or logistic regression.
20. An information processing method, executed by at least one processor, the method comprising: acquiring a feature-quantity vector directly or indirectly indicating variations in a time series in at least one of a position or an orientation of a housing of each device of a plurality of different devices that are previously associated with one another through a network; and canceling, by a processor, a predetermined restriction set in advance, on the basis of comparison between the acquired feature-quantity vectors corresponding to each device of the plurality of devices, wherein the predetermined restriction is set by a lock function applied to at least one device of the plurality of devices, and wherein similarity between the acquired feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices is determined on the basis of teacher data previously accumulated on the basis of machine learning and the predetermined restriction is canceled on the basis of a result of the determination of similarity.
21. An information processing system comprising: a plurality of devices that are previously associated with one another through a network, each device of the plurality of devices including a detection unit that detects variations in a time series in at least one of a position or an orientation of a housing of the device, an acquisition unit that acquires a feature-quantity vector directly or indirectly indicating the detected variations in the time series, for each device of the plurality of devices, and a controller that cancels a predetermined restriction set in advance on the basis of comparison between the acquired feature-quantity vectors corresponding to each device of the plurality of devices, wherein the predetermined restriction is set by a lock function applied to at least one device of the plurality of devices, wherein the controller determines similarity between the acquired feature-quantity vectors corresponding to the plurality of devices on the basis of teacher data previously accumulated on the basis of machine learning and cancels the predetermined restriction on the basis of a result of the determination of similarity, and wherein the detection unit and the acquisition unit are each implemented via at least one processor.
</claims>
</document>
