<document>

<filing_date>
2011-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2005-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SOROCA, ADAM
DOUGHTY, DENNIS
RAMER, JOREY
KARASIC, NEAL, J.
VERIZON MEDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOROCA, ADAM
DOUGHTY, DENNIS
RAMER, JOREY
KARASIC, NEAL, J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45329492
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Exclusivity bidding for mobile sponsored content
</title>

<abstract>
A system for exclusivity bidding for mobile sponsored content includes one or more computers having computer readable mediums having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by one or more processors of the one or more computers, causes the system to perform the steps of (a) receiving a bid for an exclusive sponsored content item to be presented on a mobile communication facility, the bid including an amount and at least two exclusivity characteristics, wherein the exclusivity characteristics relate to (i) a usage history as recorded via use of the mobile communication facility by a user thereof; and (ii) a geography associated with the mobile communication facility, respectively; and (b) matching the at least two exclusivity characteristics with the exclusive sponsored content item based at least in part on a relevancy for presentation to the mobile communication facility.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a request for an exclusive sponsored content item to be presented on a plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities; determining a location of a mobile communication facility based on at least one of a global positioning system or a mobile communication system associated with the mobile communication facility; determining a first relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on the location; determining a second relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on usage history data associated with the mobile communication facility; elevating the second relevancy in response to the usage history data including at least one of a product or an ad conversion related to the exclusive sponsored content item, wherein elevating the second relevancy comprises increasing a relevancy score for the second relevancy; determining a third relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on at least one of a brand identifier of the mobile communication facility or a model identifier of the mobile communication facility; combining the first relevancy, the second relevancy, and the third relevancy to a cumulative relevancy score; designating the mobile communication facility as a part of the plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities based on the cumulative relevancy score; and transmitting the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the request comprises a criterion for a mobile communication device characteristic, the method comprising: determining the third relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item based on the criterion for the mobile communication device characteristic.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the usage history data comprises a browse history including the product related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the usage history data comprises an ad conversion history including the ad conversion related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item comprises determining the first relevancy based on at least one of a previous location, a current location, or an expected location of the mobile communication facility.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one of the previous location, the current location, or the expected location is a geographic region defined as at least one of one or more states or one or more cities.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the current location is determined based on a second location entered by a user of the mobile communication facility.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising: elevating the first relevancy based on the mobile communication facility being in proximity of a plurality of businesses related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by one or more processors of one or more computers, cause the one or more processors to: receive a request for an exclusive sponsored content item to be presented on a plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities; determine locations information of a mobile communication facility based on at least one of a global positioning system or a mobile communication system associated with the mobile communication facility; determine a first relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on the locations information; determine a second relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on usage history data associated with the mobile communication facility; increase the second relevancy in response to the usage history data including at least one of a product or an ad conversion related to the exclusive sponsored content item; determine a third relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on a device characteristic of the mobile communication facility; combine the first relevancy, the second relevancy, and the third relevancy to a cumulative relevancy; designate the mobile communication facility as a part of the plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities based on the cumulative relevancy; and transmit the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the request is submitted as part of a competitive auction.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the usage history data comprises a browse history including the product related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the usage history data comprises an ad conversion history including the ad conversion related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the locations information includes at least one of a previous location, a current location, or an expected location of the mobile communication facility.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein at least one of the previous location, the current location, or the expected location is a geographic region defined as at least one of one or more states or one or more cities.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the usage history data comprises wireless carrier data of locations of calls made from the mobile communication facility, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: elevate the first relevancy in response to the exclusive sponsored content item being related to at least one location of the locations of calls.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the request comprises at least one of a display characteristic, a computational characteristic, a keypad characteristic, or a bandwidth characteristic, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: elevate the third relevancy for the mobile communication facility having at least one of the display characteristic, the computational characteristic, the keypad characteristic, or the bandwidth characteristic.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: elevate the first relevancy based on the mobile communication facility being in proximity of a plurality of businesses related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
18. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, perform a method comprising: receiving a request for an exclusive sponsored content item to be presented on a plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities; determining locations information of a mobile communication facility based on at least one of a global positioning system or a mobile communication system associated with the mobile communication facility; determining a first relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on the locations information; determining a second relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on usage history data associated with the mobile communication facility; increasing the second relevancy in response to the usage history data including at least one of a product or an ad conversion related to the exclusive sponsored content item; determining a third relevancy of the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility based on a device characteristic of the mobile communication facility; combining the first relevancy, the second relevancy, and the third relevancy to a cumulative relevancy; designating the mobile communication facility as a part of the plurality of targeted mobile communication facilities based on the cumulative relevancy; and transmitting the exclusive sponsored content item to the mobile communication facility.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the request comprises at least one of a display characteristic, a computational characteristic, a keypad characteristic, or a bandwidth characteristic, wherein the method comprises: elevating the third relevancy for the mobile communication facility having at least one of the display characteristic, the computational characteristic, the keypad characteristic, or the bandwidth characteristic.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the method comprises: elevating the first relevancy based on the mobile communication facility being in proximity of a plurality of businesses related to the exclusive sponsored content item.
</claims>
</document>
