<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/00,G06F16/951,H04W4/02,H04W4/029,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMIN, HIMANSHU SUBHASH
AMIN, ALEXANDER HIMANSHU
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMIN, HIMANSHU SUBHASH
AMIN, ALEXANDER HIMANSHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50431674
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile communications device with electronic nose
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for a mobile electronic system that gathers and analyzes odors, airborne chemicals and/or compounds. The system includes a sample delivery component that can gather airborne substances and/or gaseous substances. A detection component can detect the presences of chemicals, substances, and/or visual gases in a sample. Analyzed samples can be compared with known substance and/or odor analysis. In addition, the source of the sample can be determined. Accordingly, odor, gas, and/or airborne substance identification can be accomplished.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device comprising: a wireless transceiver; a processor that executes at least the following computer executable components stored in a non-transient computer readable storage medium: an electronic olfactory sensor that generates information regarding an airborne sample; a global positioning component that receives information regarding location of the mobile device; an image capture device that captures an image of a visible object associated with the airborne sample; a detection component that performs analyses on the airborne sample, location of the mobile device and the visible object in the captured image; a search component that performs an Internet search based in part on information resulting from the analysis by the detection component; an inference component that can infer actions or conclusions in connection with identification of a source or compound associated with the airborne sample; and a presentation component that displays search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising a filter component that filters information to facilitate quickly converging on identification of source, smell, attribute, feature, composition, or the like in connection with the airborne sample.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the inference component infers identification of the one or more features associated with the sample.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the inference component performs a utility-based analysis in connection with making an inference, factoring cost of making an incorrect inference weighed against benefit of making a correct inference.
5. The device of claim 1, further comprising a fan that facilitates collecting the airborne sample.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the electronic olfactory sensor comprises a sensory array.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the detection component comprises at least one of an optical detector, an ionization detector, a spectroscopic sensor, or a chemical sensor.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the electronic olfactory sensor comprises an array of polymer films or an array of transistors.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is at least one of a mobile phone, a tablet computer, a laptop computer, or a personal data assistant (PDA).
10. The device of claim 1, comprising a casing that houses circuitry, and at least one set of apertures in the casing, wherein the at least one set of apertures allows the airborne sample to enter the housing.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the apertures also allow for sound to enter or leave the mobile device.
12. The device of claim 1, comprising an artificial intelligence component that facilitates determining or inferring identification of source of a feature of the airborne sample.
13. A mobile device comprising: a wireless transceiver; a processor that executes at least the following computer executable components stored in a non-transient computer readable storage medium: an electronic olfactory sensor that generates information regarding an airborne sample; a global positioning component that receives information regarding location of the mobile device; an image capture device that captures an image of a visible object associated with the airborne sample; a pattern recognition component that can identify images captured by the image capture device; a detection component that performs analyses on the airborne sample, location of the mobile device and the visible object in the captured image; a search component that performs an Internet search based in part on information resulting from the analysis by the detection component; and a presentation component that displays search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample.
14. A mobile device comprising: a wireless transceiver; a processor that executes at least the following computer executable components stored in a non-transient computer readable storage medium: an electronic olfactory sensor that generates information regarding an airborne sample; a global positioning component that receives information regarding location of the mobile device; an image capture device that captures an image of a visible object associated with the airborne sample; a detection component that performs analyses on the airborne sample, location of the mobile device and the visible object in the captured image; a filter component that filters information to facilitate quickly converging on identification of source, smell, attribute, feature, composition, or the like in connection with the airborne sample; a search component that performs an Internet search based in part on information resulting from the analysis by the detection component; and a presentation component that displays search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the filter component nulls or rules out potential candidates in connection with identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample.
16. A method, comprising: employing a processor, located in a wireless mobile device, to execute computer executable components stored in a memory; using a sample delivery component to receive an airborne sample; using a detection component to analyze a headspace of the airborne sample; using an electronic olfactory sensor to generate information regarding scent of the sample; using a global positioning component to determine location of the mobile device; using an image capture device to capture an image of a visible object associated with source of the airborne sample; using a filter component to filters information to facilitate quickly converging on identification of source, smell, attribute, feature, composition, or the like in connection with the airborne sample using a search component to perform a search based on the image and the information regarding scent of the airborne sample, and receive search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample; and using a presentation component to display the search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the airborne sample.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a request to identify source of an airborne sample; and creating an area of low pressure in the wireless mobile device to draw in the airborne sample.
18. The method of claim 16, comprising identifying one or more features associated with the airborne sample based at least in part on scent identification, chemical identification, image identification, and device location.
19. A wireless mobile device, comprising: a wireless transceiver; a casing that houses circuitry, and at least one set of apertures in the casing, wherein the at least one set of apertures allows an airborne sample to enter the housing, wherein the sample is a gaseous substance or airborne substance; a processor that executes computer executable components stored in a non-transient computer readable storage medium; a sample delivery component that gathers the airborne sample; an electronic olfactory sensor that generates information regarding the airborne sample; a camera component that captures an image of a visible object associated with potential source of the airborne sample; a detection component that analyzes a headspace of the sample; a pattern recognition component that identifies the object; a search component that performs an Internet-based search based in part on information resulting from the electronic olfactory sensor, the identified object and a verbal query, and receives search results relating to identification of one or more features associated with the sample; and a presentation component that presents answers to the verbal query regarding attributes of the object.
20. The system of claim 19, comprising an input component that receives verbal instructions from a user to identify source of the sample.
</claims>
</document>
