<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01H11/06,G01H9/00,G01S5/22,G10H1/043
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING ZHIGU RUI TUO TECH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DU LIN
ZHOU, HANNING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52553514
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for obtaining vibration information and user equipment
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present application disclose a method and an apparatus for obtaining vibration information and user equipment. The method comprises: obtaining at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal is formed by reflecting an electromagnetic wave signal by at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module when the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module vibrates in response to a sound in an environment; analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal to obtain at least one piece of vibration information corresponding to the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal. In technical solutions of the embodiments of the present application, by obtaining and analyzing the reflected electromagnetic wave signal, the sound vibration at the electromagnetic wave reflective module in the environment may be restored, and obtaining sound information in an environment by using a wireless electromagnetic wave is especially applicable to some scenarios where an active component is not suitable for use at a sound collecting location and a scenario where sound information at multiple locations needs to be collected in a space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for obtaining vibration information, comprising: obtaining at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal is formed by reflecting an electromagnetic wave signal by at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module when the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module vibrates in response to a sound in an environment; and analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal to obtain at least one piece of vibration information corresponding to the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the electromagnetic wave signal comprises a modulated electromagnetic wave signal modulated by an orbital angular momentum, and each reflected electromagnetic wave signal of the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal includes an electromagnetic wave component conjugated with the modulated electromagnetic wave signal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reflecting comprises directional reflecting.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises multiple reflected electromagnetic wave signals corresponding to multiple electromagnetic wave reflective modules with different electromagnetic wave reflective characteristics, and the multiple electromagnetic wave reflective modules correspond to multiple locations.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises: analyzing the multiple reflected electromagnetic wave signals to obtain multiple pieces of vibration information corresponding to the multiple locations.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module comprises at least one electromagnetic wave reflective array, each electromagnetic wave reflective array including multiple reflective units with different vibration response characteristics respectively; and wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises at least one group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals corresponding to the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective array, each group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals including multiple reflected electromagnetic wave sub-signals respectively corresponding to the multiple reflective units of the corresponding electromagnetic wave reflective array.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises: analyzing each group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals of the at least one group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals to obtain multiple pieces of vibration component information respectively corresponding to the corresponding multiple reflected electromagnetic wave sub-signals.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises: obtaining, according to the multiple pieces of the vibration component information corresponding to each electromagnetic wave reflective array, synthesized vibration information of the sound located at each electromagnetic wave reflective array.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic wave signal comprises an environmental electromagnetic wave signal.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming, when the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module vibrates in response to the sound in the environment, the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal by reflecting the electromagnetic wave signal by the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module.
10. An apparatus for obtaining vibration information, comprising: a reflected signal obtaining module, configured to obtain at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal is formed by reflecting an electromagnetic wave signal by at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module when the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module vibrates in response to a sound in an environment; and an analyzing and processing module, configured to analyze the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal to obtain at least one piece of vibration information corresponding to the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the electromagnetic wave signal comprises a modulated electromagnetic wave signal modulated by an orbital angular momentum, and wherein the apparatus further comprises a signal sending module configured to send the modulated electromagnetic wave signal, and each reflected electromagnetic wave signal of the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprises an electromagnetic wave component conjugated with the modulated electromagnetic wave signal.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the reflected signal obtaining module is further configured to: obtain multiple reflected electromagnetic wave signals corresponding to multiple electromagnetic wave reflective modules with different electromagnetic wave reflective characteristics, and the multiple electromagnetic wave reflective modules correspond to multiple locations.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the analyzing and processing module comprises: a first analyzing and processing unit, configured to analyze the multiple reflected electromagnetic wave signals to obtain multiple pieces of vibration information corresponding to the multiple locations.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module comprises at least one electromagnetic wave reflective array, each electromagnetic wave reflective array including multiple reflective units with different vibration response characteristics respectively; and the reflected signal obtaining module is further configured to obtain the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal comprising at least one group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals corresponding to the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective array, each group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals comprising multiple reflected electromagnetic wave sub-signals respectively corresponding to the multiple reflective units of the corresponding electromagnetic wave reflective array.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the analyzing and processing module comprises: a second analyzing and processing unit, configured to analyze each group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals of the at least one group of array reflected electromagnetic wave signals to obtain multiple pieces of vibration component information respectively corresponding to the corresponding multiple reflected electromagnetic wave sub-signals.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the analyzing and processing module further comprises: a vibration synthesizing unit, configured to obtain, according to the multiple pieces of the vibration component information corresponding to each electromagnetic wave reflective array, synthesized vibration information of the sound located at each electromagnetic wave reflective array.
16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the electromagnetic wave signal comprises an environmental electromagnetic wave signal.
17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module is configured to, when vibrating in response to the sound in the environment, reflect the electromagnetic wave signal to form the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module comprises at least one electromagnetic wave reflective film.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module is further configured to: when vibrating in response to the sound in the environment, reflect the electromagnetic wave signal to form the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein each electromagnetic wave reflective module of the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module comprises a curved reflective surface, configured to perform the directional reflecting.
21. A user apparatus, comprising the apparatus for obtaining vibration information of claim 10.
22. A computer readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, in response to execution, cause a device comprising a processor to perform operations, comprising: obtaining at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal is formed by reflecting an electromagnetic wave signal by at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module when the at least one electromagnetic wave reflective module vibrates in response to a sound in an environment; and analyzing the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal to obtain at least one piece of vibration information corresponding to the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal, wherein the electromagnetic wave signal comprises a modulated electromagnetic wave signal modulated by an orbital angular momentum, and each reflected electromagnetic wave signal of the at least one reflected electromagnetic wave signal includes an electromagnetic wave component conjugated with the modulated electromagnetic wave signal.
</claims>
</document>
