<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/103,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
REQBO
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLEISCHER, JESPER
JENSEN, ANDERS GEERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59678702
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and device for improving prediction and detection of adverse events in elderly or disabled people
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relates to a method and apparatus for risk stratification, monitoring, detection and prediction of adverse events in bedridden people. The method and apparatus can be used to prevent heath related conditions in people.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising a resting device for resting a patient, the resting device comprising: a substrate having a contact surface for contacting the patient, one or more material filled sacs comprising a material and associated with the contact surface of the substrate, each material filled sac containing a matrix of voxels that are able to transmit pressure using the material, one or more sensors that are incorporated in one or more voxels, and a patient recognition algorithm to detect changes in a user profile; wherein the system is configured to at least (a) combine information and construct the user profile, wherein the information comprises a first data from a pressure ulcer risk scale and a second data obtained via the resting device over time, and (b) automatically perform an assessment of a risk of pressure ulcer in the patient; and wherein the one or more sensors are at least configured to measure changes in the one or more voxels.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient recognition algorithm is configured to at least predict the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to predict the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient using at least (a) sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors and (b) one or more prior data of the patient.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising one or more processors that analyze the one or more prior data of the patient based on a pre-determined algorithm and produce processed data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are configured to at least (a) combine the processed data with the sensor data from the one or more sensors and (b) determine a change in the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are configured to preprocess the sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors to generate preprocessed data and extract one or more features from the preprocessed data, wherein the one or more features comprise distinguishing and/or informative features for classification and/or assessment of the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more features comprise a mathematical derivative from the sensor data.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein a plurality of the one or more features are configured to form patterns that are indicative of a pressure ulcer event.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the system is configured to extract and reduce the one or more features, and the system is further configured to choose particular features for predicting one or more pressure ulcers.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the system is configured to extract and reduce the or more features, and the system is further configured to classify and correlate the one or more features with one or more pressure ulcers.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the system is configured to classify the one or more features using one or more classification models that are configured for classifying a future point in time as normal, thereby resulting in none of the one or more pressure ulcers, or abnormal, thereby resulting in the one or more pressure ulcers, based on the one or more features.
12. A system comprising a resting device for resting a patient, the resting device comprising: a substrate having a contact surface for contacting the patient, one or more material filled sacs comprising a material and associated with the contact surface of the substrate, each material flied sac containing a matrix of voxels that are able to transmit pressure using the material, one or more sensors that are incorporated in one or more voxels, and a patient recognition algorithm to detect changes in a user profile; wherein the system is configured to at least (a) combine information and construct the user profile, wherein the information comprises a first data from a pressure ulcer risk scale and a second data obtained via the resting device over time, and (b) automatically perform an assessment of a risk of pressure ulcer in the patient; wherein the one or more sensor are at least configured to measure changes in the one or more voxels; and wherein the patient recognition algorithm is configured to predict the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient using at least (a) sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors and (b) one or more observational information of the patient.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the sensor data is combined with the one or more observational information to generate one or more patterns for estimating the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors comprise pressure sensor, a movement sensor and a temperature sensor, further the system is configured to analyze the sensor data and the one or more observational information to generate the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more observational information comprises one or more data of the patient, the one or more data comprising: a mobility level, a physical activity level, a mental activity level, a state of consciousness, oedema, age, gender, a body-mass index or comorbidities.
16. A system comprising a resting device for resting a patient, the resting device comprising: a substrate having a contact surface for contacting the patient, one or more material filled sacs comprising a material and associated with the contact surface of the substrate, each material filled sac containing a matrix of voxels that are able to transmit pressure using the material, one or more sensors that are incorporated in one or more voxels, and a patient recognition algorithm to detect changes in a user profile; wherein the system is configured to at least (a) combine information and construct the user profile, wherein the information comprises a first data from a pressure ulcer risk scale and a second data obtained via the resting device over time, and (b) automatically perform an assessment of a risk of pressure ulcer in the patient; wherein the one or more sensor are at least configured to measure changes in the one or more voxels; and wherein the patient recognition algorithm is configured to predict the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient using at least (a) sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors and (b) a pattern recognition algorithm.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the system is further configured to at least (a) detect changes in the user profile of the patient, (b) predict a potential adverse health effect on the patient and (c) undertake deployment of a pressure ulcer prevention strategy.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the system is configured to assign the patient to the pressure ulcer prevention strategy that is commensurate with a level of the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the pressure ulcer risk scale is based on one or more observational information of the patient and gender of the patient.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a pressure sensor, a movement sensor and a temperature sensor, further the system is configured to analyze the sensor data and the one or more observational information to generate the risk of pressure ulcer in the patient.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the one or more observational information comprises one or more data of the patient, the one or more data comprising: a mobility level, a physical activity level, a mental activity level, a state of consciousness, oedema, age, gender, body-mass index or comorbidities.
</claims>
</document>
