<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/26,G06F15/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOSE, PRADIP
BUYUKTOSUNOGLU, ALPER
CHANDRAMOORTHY, NANDHINI
CHER, CHEN-YONG
MONFORT, RAMON BERTRAN
SWAMINATHAN, KARTHIK V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727689
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Reliability-aware runtime optimal processor configuration
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for determining reliability-aware runtime optimal processor configuration can integrate soft and hard error data into a single metric, referred to as the balanced reliability metric (BRM), by using statistical dimensionality reduction techniques. The BRM can be used to not only adjust processor voltage to optimize overall reliability but also to adjust the number of on-cores to further optimize overall processor reliability. In some implementations, both coarse-grained actuations, based on optimal core count, and fine-grained actuations, based on optimal processor voltage (Vdd), may be used, where feedback control can recursively re-compute soft and hard error data based on a new configuration, until convergence at an optimal configuration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: integrating soft error data and hard error data into a single metric within a metric module; and adjusting at least one of a voltage of a processor and a number of on-cores of the processor to optimize overall reliability of the processor, wherein the metric module uses a statistical dimensionality reduction technique to convert a combined input of the soft error data and the hard error data into a reduced dimensional array.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the metric module uses a distance metric to determine the single metric.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising re-computing the single metric based on the adjusting of at least one of the processor voltage and the number of on-cores and a re-computation of the soft error data and the hard error data.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising selecting a minimum value of the single metric to determine an optimal processor voltage to optimize reliability of the processor.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a coarse-grained actuation by adjusting the number of on-cores based on operating system level metrics and sensor data; recomputing the single metric to determine a recomputed single metric; and performing a fine-grained actuation by adjusting the processor voltage based on the operating system level metrics and the sensor data.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: recalculating the single metric to determine a recalculated single metric; comparing the recomputed single metric with the recalculated single metric; and, upon determining that the recomputed single metric is different from the recalculated single metric, based on the comparison, repeating the coarse-grained actuation and the fine-grained actuation.
7. A method, comprising: integrating soft error data and hard error data into a single metric within a metric module; performing a coarse-grained actuation by adjusting a number of on-cores of a processor based on operating system level metrics and sensor data; recomputing the single metric to determine a recomputed single metric; and performing a fine-grained actuation by adjusting the processor voltage based on the operating system level metrics and the sensor data, wherein the metric module uses a statistical dimensionality reduction technique to convert a combined input of the soft error data and the hard error data into a reduced dimensional array.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the metric module uses a distance metric to determine the single metric.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising re-computing the single metric based on the adjusting of at least one of the processor voltage and the number of on-cores.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising selecting a minimum value of the single metric to determine an optimal processor voltage and an optimal number of on-cores to optimize reliability of the processor.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising re-integrating soft error data and hard error data to re-calculate the single metric.
12. A non-transitory computer program product, comprising: a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a balanced reliability metric module to cause the balanced reliability metric module to: integrate soft error data and hard error data into a single metric; adjust at least one of a voltage of a processor and a number of on-cores to optimize overall reliability of the processor; and convert a combined input of the soft error data and the hard error data into a reduced dimensional array using a statistical dimensionality reduction technique.
13. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 12, wherein execution of the program instructions further causes the balanced reliability metric module to determine the single metric using a distance metric.
14. The non-transitory computer program of claim 12, wherein execution of the program instructions further causes the balanced reliability metric module to re-compute the single metric based on the adjusting of at least one of the processor voltage and the number of on-cores and a re-computation of the soft error data and the hard error data.
15. The non-transitory computer program of claim 14, wherein execution of the program instructions further causes the balanced reliability metric module to select a minimum value of the single metric to determine an optimal processor voltage to optimize reliability of the processor.
16. The non-transitory computer program of claim 12, wherein execution of the program instructions further causes the balanced reliability metric module to: perform a coarse-grained actuation by adjusting the number of on-cores based on operating system level metrics and sensor data; recompute the single metric to determine a recomputed single metric; and perform a fine-grained actuation by adjusting the processor voltage based on the operating system level metrics and the sensor data.
17. The non-transitory computer program of claim 16, wherein execution of the program instructions further causes the balanced reliability metric module to: recalculate the single metric to determine a recalculated single metric; and upon determining that the recomputed single metric is different from the recalculated single metric, repeating the coarse-grained actuation and the fine-grained actuation.
</claims>
</document>
