<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q40/08,H04N13/204
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRUCKER, AARON
SPADER, TIMOTHY J.
MOUSTY, JEFFREY
DULEE, JR., GEORGE T.
YUHAS, DONALD
STROH, CHRIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69057421
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Structural characteristic extraction using drone-generated 3D image data
</title>

<abstract>
A structural analysis computing device may generate a proposed insurance claim and/or generate a proposed insurance quote for an object pictured in a three-dimensional (3D) image. The structural analysis computing device may be coupled to a drone configured to capture exterior images of the object. The structural analysis computing device may include a memory, a user interface, an object sensor configured to capture the 3D image, and a processor in communication with the memory and the object sensor. The processor may access the 3D image including the object, and analyze the 3D images to identify features of the object—such as by inputting the 3D image into a trained machine learning or pattern recognition program. The processor may generate a proposed claim form for a damaged object and/or a proposed quote for an uninsured object, and display the form to a user for their review and/or approval.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A structural analysis computing device for generating an insurance quote for an object pictured in a three-dimensional (3D) image, the structural analysis computing device communicatively coupled to a drone, the structural analysis computing device comprising: a memory; a user interface; and at least one processor in communication with the memory and an object sensor configured to capture the 3D image of the object, wherein the object sensor is coupled to the drone, and wherein the at least one processor is programmed to: transmit an instruction to the drone to navigate to the object; transmit an instruction to the object sensor to capture the 3D image of the object, wherein the drone autonomously navigates to the object while the object sensor captures the 3D image of the object; receive, from the object sensor, the 3D image of the object captured by the object sensor; access the 3D image of the object; generate one or more machine learning models to identify insurable objects using one or more training images of known insurable objects; train, using the one or more machine learning models, an image analysis program to identify the object pictured in the 3D image as an insurable object and identify what the insurable object is, wherein the object is identified as an insurable object using the image analysis program to match the object to the one or more training images of known insurable objects; analyze the 3D image using the image analysis program based upon the one or more machine learning models; determine a value of the insurable object based upon the analysis; generate a quote associated with the insurable object based upon the determined value of the insurable object; and transmit the quote for display at a user computing device; provide insurance coverage based upon the 3D image and the quote.
2. The structural analysis computing device of claim 1, wherein the object sensor is configured to capture the 3D image including an exterior of the object.
3. The structural analysis computing device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to analyze the received 3D image by automatically determining a first plurality of measurements associated with the insurable object from the 3D image.
4. The structural analysis computing device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to facilitate display of a quote request app on the user interface of the structural analysis computing device.
5. The structural analysis computing device of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to receive user input from a user of the structural analysis computing device, wherein the user input includes at least one of an identification of the insurable object, an estimated value of the insurable object, and existing policy information associated with the user.
6. The structural analysis computing device of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to use the user input to determine the value of the insurable object.
7. The structural analysis computing device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: establish the value of the object as a baseline value of the insurable object; and determine a pre-insured status of the insurable object associated with the baseline value of the insurable object.
8. A computer-implemented method for generating a quote associated with an object pictured in a three-dimensional (3D) image, the method comprising: transmitting, using at least one processor of a structural analysis computing device communicatively coupled to a drone, an instruction to the drone to navigate to the object; transmitting, using the at least one processor, an instruction to an object sensor coupled to the drone to capture the 3D image of the object, wherein the drone autonomously navigates to the object while the object sensor captures the 3D image of the object; receiving, from the object sensor, the 3D image of the object captured by the object sensor; accessing, using the at least one processor, the 3D image of the object; generating, using the at least one processor, one or more machine learning models to identify insurable objects using one or more training images of known insurable objects; training, using the at least one processor and the one or more machine learning models, an image analysis program to identify the object pictured in the 3D image as an insurable object and identify what the insurable object is, wherein the object is identified as an insurable object using the image analysis program to match the object to the one or more training images of known insurable objects; analyzing, using the at least one processor, the accessed 3D using the image analysis program based upon the one or more machine learning models; determining, using the at least one processor, a value of the insurable object based upon the analysis; generating, using the at least one processor, a quote associated with the insurable object based upon the determined value of the insurable object; and transmitting, using the at least one processor, the quote for display at a user computing device; providing insurance coverage based upon the 3D image and the quote.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the structural analysis computing device is integral to the drone.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the user computing device includes the structural analysis computing device.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the object sensor is configured to capture the 3D image including an exterior of the object.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein analyzing the received 3D image comprises automatically determining a first plurality of measurements associated with the insurable object from the 3D image.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12 further comprising facilitating display of a quote request app on the user computing device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13 further comprising receiving user input from a user of the user computing device, wherein the user input includes at least one of an identification of the insurable object, an estimated value of the insurable object, and existing policy information associated with the user.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein determining the value of the insurable object comprises using the user input.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 8 further comprising: establishing the value of the insurable object as a baseline value of the insurable object; and determining a pre-insured status of the insurable object associated with the baseline value of the insurable object.
17. A mobile photogrammetry system for generating a quote associated with an object pictured in a three-dimensional (3D) image, the mobile photogrammetry system comprising: a structural analysis computing device communicatively coupled to a drone, the structural analysis computing device comprising: a first memory; and at least one first processor in communication with the first memory and an object sensor configured to capture the 3D image of the object, wherein the object sensor is coupled to the drone, and wherein the at least one first processor is programmed to: transmit an instruction to the drone to navigate to the object, wherein the drone autonomously navigates to the object while the object sensor captures the 3D image of the object; transmit an instruction to the object sensor to capture the 3D image of the object; and transmit the 3D image to an insurance server; and the insurance server comprising: a second memory; and at least one second processor in communication with the second memory, wherein the at least one second processor is programmed to: receive the 3D image of the object; generate one or more machine learning models to identify insurable objects using one or more training images of known insurable objects; train, using the one or more machine learning models, an image analysis program to identify the object pictured in the 3D image as an insurable object and identify what the insurable object is, wherein the object is identified as an insurable object using the image analysis program to match the object to the one or more training images of known insurable objects; analyze the received 3D image using the image analysis program based upon the one or more machine learning models; determine a value of the insurable object based upon the analysis; generate a quote associated with the insurable object based upon the determined value of the insurable object; and transmit the quote for display at a user computing device; provide insurance coverage based upon the 3D image and the quote.
18. The mobile photogrammetry system of claim 17, wherein the user computing device comprises the structural analysis computing device.
19. The mobile photogrammetry system of claim 17, wherein the structural analysis computing device is integral to the drone.
</claims>
</document>
