<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F21/60,G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIAO, NING
QU, KAIWEN
YUAN, FUSHENG
BANFIELD, MICHAEL
CHAWLA, KARISHMA
SCHIEFER, JOSEF
ZHAO, RUIWEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Masking sensitive information in records of filtered accesses to unstructured data
</title>

<abstract>
Unstructured data items are stored at an object storage service. A filtering requirement to be used to generate a result set for an access request is determined. Using a transformed representation of the filtering requirement, a target set of tokens of the filtering requirement which are to be obfuscated within a log record is identified. A log record that comprises substitute tokens for the target set of tokens is generated and stored.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: one or more computing devices of an object storage service; wherein the one or more computing devices include instructions that upon execution on a processor cause the one or more computing devices to: store, in response to one or more programmatic requests, a plurality of unstructured data items of an item collection; determine a first query expressed using a plurality of tokens, wherein the first query is to be used to filter data for inclusion in a response to a first access request directed to one or more items of the item collection; generate a tree representation of the first query; utilize the tree representation and one or more security rules to identify a target set of one or more tokens of the plurality of tokens which are to be obfuscated within a log record stored at the object storage service; generate, corresponding to respective tokens of the target set, substitute tokens for inclusion in the log record; store the log record comprising the substitute tokens; and perform one or more analysis operations using at least the log record.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein to identify the target set, the instructions upon execution by the processor cause the one or more computing devices to: determine that a first token of the plurality of tokens is a literal; and include the first token in the target set.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein to identify the target set, the instructions upon execution by the processor cause the one or more computing devices to: select, based at least in part on a lookup in a collection of sensitive terms, a first token from the plurality of tokens; and include the first token in the target set.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the instructions upon execution by the processor cause the one or more computing devices to: obtain, via a programmatic interface, an indication of one or more security requirements of a client on whose behalf at least a portion of the item collection is stored, wherein identification of the target set is based at least in part on the one or more security requirements.
5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein to generate the substitute tokens, the instructions upon execution by the processor cause the one or more computing devices to generate, corresponding to an original token of the target set, a first substitute token, such that a value of a first property of the first substitute token matches the value of the first property of the original token.
6. A method, comprising: performing, by one or more computing devices of an object storage service: storing a plurality of unstructured data items of an item collection; determining a first filtering requirement expressed using a plurality of tokens, wherein the first filtering requirement is to be used to obtain a result set of a first access request directed to at least a portion of the item collection; identifying, using at least a transformed representation of the first filtering requirement, a target set of one or more tokens of the plurality of tokens which are to be obfuscated within a log record stored at the object storage service; generating, corresponding to respective tokens of the target set, substitute tokens for inclusion in the log record; and storing the log record comprising the substitute tokens.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein identifying the target set comprises: identifying a first token representing a literal; and including the first token in the target set.
8. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein identifying the target set comprises: identifying, based at least in part on a lookup in a collection of sensitive terms, a first token; and including the first token in the target set.
9. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: obtaining, via a programmatic interface, an indication of one or more security requirements of a client on whose behalf the item collection is stored, wherein identifying the target set is based at least in part on the one or more security requirements.
10. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein generating the substitute tokens comprises generating, corresponding to an original token of the target set, a first substitute token, such that a value of a first property of the first substitute token matches the value of the first property of the original token.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the original token comprises a string of text, and wherein the first property is a length of the string.
12. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein at least a first token of the target set represents a portion of one or more of: (a) an image, (b) a video, or (c) an audio excerpt.
13. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein generating the substitute tokens comprises utilizing a deterministic mapping function.
14. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the access request comprises an indication of a delimiter to be used to identify individual records within a data item.
15. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the log record comprises a performance metric associated with the access request.
16. A non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium storing program instructions that when executed on one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: store a plurality of unstructured data items of an item collection; determine a first filtering requirement expressed using a plurality of tokens, wherein the first filtering requirement is to be used to obtain a result set of a first access request directed to at least a portion of the item collection; identify, using at least a transformed representation of the first filtering requirement, a target set of one or more tokens of the plurality of tokens which are to be obfuscated within a log record stored at the object storage service; generate, corresponding to respective tokens of the target set, substitute tokens for inclusion in the log record; and store the log record comprising the substitute tokens.
17. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein to identify the target set, the instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine whether a first token of the plurality of tokens is a literal; and include the first token in the target set in response to determining that the first token is a literal.
18. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein to identify the target set, the instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: select, based at least in part on a lookup in a collection of sensitive terms, a first token from the plurality of tokens; and include the first token in the target set.
19. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: obtain, via a programmatic interface, an indication of one or more security requirements of a client on whose behalf at least a portion of the item collection is stored, wherein identification of the target set is based at least in part on the one or more security requirements.
20. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the transformed representation comprises an abstract syntax tree.
</claims>
</document>
