<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/0488,A61B5/11,G08B21/04,G08B23/00,G16H40/63,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLMON, DAVID SCOTT
CERRUTO, ANTONIO XAVIER
FUKUHARA, SHIHO
KARAGOZLER, MUSTAFA EMRE
POUPYREV, IVAN
SATO, MUNEHIKO
WILHITE, SUSAN JANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58098689
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Ergonomic assessment garment
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of determining an ergonomic assessment for a user are provided. For instance, sensor data can be received from one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by a user. Corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user can be determined based at least in part on the sensor data. The corporeal data is associated with a bend angle associated with the at least one body segment. An ergonomic assessment associated with the user can be determined based at least in part on the corporeal data. The ergonomic assessment can include an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user, the one or more ergonomic zones being determined based at least in part on the bend angle associated with the at least one body segment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of determining an ergonomic assessment associated with a user, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, sensor data from one or more sensors during a measurement period, the one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by the user; determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with a velocity associated with the at least one body segment; determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the velocity associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the velocity associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, the ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user, the one or more ergonomic zones being determined based at least in part on the velocity associated with the at least one body segment.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment garment.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the electrically conductive yarns are coupled to at least one of the one or more sensors to form one or more circuits.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more accelerometers implemented within the ergonomic assessment garment to facilitate a measurement of a motion or posture associated with the at least one body segment.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the corporeal data additionally comprises data associated with at least one of a range of motion of the at least one body segment or an acceleration of the at least one body segment.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the corporeal data comprises data associated with the velocity of the at least one body segment relative to the one or more thresholds.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the corporeal data comprises data associated with a timing of the velocity of the at least one body segment relative to one or more respective thresholds corresponding to the at least one body segment.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data for at least one body segment of the user comprises measuring an amount of time that the velocity of the at least one body segment is greater than the respective one or more thresholds.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, the ergonomic assessment associated with the user comprises determining one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining the one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user comprises determining the one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the amount of time that the velocity of the at least one body segment is greater than the respective one or more thresholds.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, the ergonomic assessment associated with the user comprises determining an assessment of an expenditure of power by the user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing, by the one or more computing devices, one or more haptic feedback signals to the user via the ergonomic assessment garment based at least in part on the ergonomic assessment.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising calibrating, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more sensors implemented with the ergonomic assessment garment as worn by the user.
14. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices, the one or more memory devices storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors during a measurement period, the one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by a user; determining corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with a velocity associated with the at least one body segment; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the velocity associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the velocity associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; determining an ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user, the one or more ergonomic zones being determined based at least in part on the velocity associated with the at least one body segment.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment structure.
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the electrically conductive yarns are coupled to at least one of the one or more sensors to form one or more circuits.
17. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the corporeal data additionally comprises data associated with at least one of a range of motion of the at least one body segment or an acceleration of the at least one body segment.
18. A computer-implemented method of determining an ergonomic assessment associated with a user, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, sensor data from one or more sensors during a measurement period, the one or more sensors implemented with an ergonomic assessment garment worn by the user; determining, by the one or more computing devices, corporeal data associated with at least one body segment of the user based at least in part on the sensor data, the corporeal data associated with an acceleration associated with the at least one body segment; determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more ergonomic zones based at least in part on the measurement period and the acceleration associated with the at least one body segment during the measurement period, wherein the one or more ergonomic zones are based at least in part on a number of instances in which the acceleration associated with the at least one body segment exceeds one or more thresholds during the measurement period; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, the ergonomic assessment associated with the user based at least in part on the corporeal data, the ergonomic assessment comprising an indication of one or more ergonomic zones associated with the user, the one or more ergonomic zones being determined based at least in part on the acceleration associated with the at least one body segment.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein: the ergonomic assessment garment is a smart garment constructed at least in part using electrically conductive yarns woven into a fabric structure of the ergonomic assessment garment, and wherein at least one of the electrically conductive yarns are coupled to at least one of the one or more sensors to form one or more circuits.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein: the ergonomic assessment is associated with an assessment of the user associated with one or more of a medical rehabilitation, a sports performance, or an evaluation of an injury.
</claims>
</document>
