<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU, XIAOXIAO
WANG, PENG
Wang, Zhongyao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61162753
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for identifying fake traffic
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure provide methods and apparatuses for identifying fake traffic. The method can includes: collecting access traffic data of network traffic; generating feature data of the access traffic data; and sending the feature data to a server for identifying fake traffic in accordance with the feature data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying fake traffic, comprising: collecting access traffic data of network traffic; generating, by a client terminal, feature data of the collected access traffic data, the feature data being associated with user access behavior; obtaining, by the client terminal, a first identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic based on a subset of the feature data, the subset of the feature data determined for identifying fake traffic; in response to the first identification result indicating that the access traffic data contains fake traffic, performing, by the client terminal, an access traffic control on the network traffic; sending, in response to the first identification result indicating fake traffic, the feature data to a server for obtaining, from the server, a second identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic in accordance with the feature data; and in response to the second identification result by the server indicating that the access traffic data does not contain fake traffic, releasing, by the client terminal, the access traffic control of the network traffic.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining, by the client terminal, the first identification result comprises: determining the subset of feature data based on the feature data; determining a rule corresponding to the subset of feature data; and obtaining the first identification result of the access traffic data according to the subset of feature data and the rule.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: adjusting the rule corresponding to the subset of feature data in response to a determination of the access traffic not being fake traffic.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the rule comprises: a threshold range corresponding to the subset of feature data and a feature parameter.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: sending the first identification result to the server in response to the first identification result indicating fake traffic.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: training a machine learning model off-line by using prior traffic data determined as fake traffic and feature data of the prior traffic data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the collected access traffic data comprises at least one of contents of an accessed website, means utilized to access the website, or user access habit data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the contents of the accessed website by a user comprises at least one of a number of accessed pages and a number of page turning during a predetermined time period; the means utilized to access the website comprises an IP (Internet Protocol) address, an MAC (Media Access Control) address, a WIFI (Wireless Fidelity) name, a WIFI MAC address, a Session identity (ID), or a login ID; and the user access habit data comprises at least one of time periods during which the user accesses different types of pages, an average value of page access durations, and a variance of the page access durations.
9. An apparatus comprising: a memory storing a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the set of instructions to perform: collecting access traffic data of network traffic; generating, by a client terminal, feature data of the collected access traffic data, the feature data being associated with user access behavior; obtaining, by the client terminal, a first identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic based on a subset of the feature data, the subset of the feature data determined for identifying fake traffic; in response to the first identification result indicating that the access traffic data contains fake traffic, performing, by the client terminal, an access traffic control on the network traffic; sending, in response to the first identification result indicating fake traffic, the feature data to a server for obtaining, from the server, a second identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic in accordance with the feature data; and in response to the second identification result by the server indicating that the access traffic data does not contain fake traffic, releasing, by the client terminal, the access traffic control of the network traffic.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium that stores a set of instructions that is executable by at least one processor of a client terminal to cause the client terminal to perform a method for identifying fake traffic, the method comprising: collecting access traffic data of network access traffic; generating, by a client terminal, feature data of the collected access traffic data, the feature data being associated with user access behaviors; generating, by a client terminal, feature data of the collected access traffic data, the feature data being associated with user access behavior; obtaining, by the client terminal, a first identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic based on a subset of the feature data, the subset of the feature data determined for identifying fake traffic; in response to a determination by the client terminal that the access traffic data contains fake traffic, performing, by the client terminal, an access traffic control on the network traffic; sending the feature data to a server for obtaining, from the server, a second identification result indicating whether the access traffic data contains fake traffic in accordance with the feature data; and in response to a determination by the server that the access traffic data does not contain fake traffic, releasing, by the client terminal, the access traffic control of the network traffic.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein obtaining, by the client terminal, the first identification result comprises: determining the subset of feature data based on the feature data; determining a rule corresponding to the subset of feature data; and obtaining the first identification result of the access traffic data according to the subset of feature data and the rule.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein in response to the determination of access traffic being not fake traffic, the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the client terminal to cause the client terminal to further perform: adjusting the rule corresponding to the subset of feature data.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the rule comprises: a threshold range corresponding to the subset of feature data and a feature parameter.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein in response to the first identification result indicating fake traffic, the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the client terminal to cause the client terminal to further perform: sending the client identification result to the server.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the set of instructions is executable by the at least one processor of the client terminal to cause the client terminal to further perform: training a machine learning model off-line by using prior traffic data determined as fake traffic and feature data of the prior traffic data.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the collected access traffic data comprises at least one of contents of an accessed website, means utilized to access the website, or user access habit data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the contents of the accessed website by a user comprises at least one of a number of accessed pages and a number of page turning during a predetermined time period; the means utilized to access the website comprises an IP (Internet Protocol) address, an MAC (Media Access Control) address, a WIFI (Wireless Fidelity) name, a WIFI MAC address, a Session identity (ID), or a login ID; and the user access habit data comprises at least one of time periods during which the user accesses different types of pages, an average value of page access durations, and a variance of the page access durations.
</claims>
</document>
