<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VERMA, PRASHANT
MOKASHI, RONIL SUDHIR
GALYUZIN, ANDRII
DE MARTINO, FRANCESCO
MANOLE, SORIN
URSACHI, CRISTI
KISTAMPALLI, VIJAYA RAMA REDDY
KUMAR, SHREEJA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71125342
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Encryption profiles for encrypting user-submitted data
</title>

<abstract>
Various approaches enable real-time data encryption using an encryption profile that enables a customer to specify the type of data to encrypt and the encryption keys to use when encrypting the data. A profile editor that a customer (e.g., a customer of a content provider) can use to create and manage encryption profiles that can be used to encrypt data can be provided. A profile editor or set of request parameters can allow customers to configure content distributions and associate encryption keys with a profile to encrypt user sensitive data. A customer can select, define, and/or modify the encryption options or other configuration settings for a profile. Once set, the profile can be used to securely ingest user-submitted data to customers' web servers. For example, a request can be analyzed to determine data fields of the request. Based on one or more profiles associated with the customer, the data in those fields can be encrypted with the appropriate encryption key per the profiles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a first request to create a profile at a resource provider environment, the profile specifying an encryption key for encrypting data, the resource provider environment including a plurality of resources connected over a network; receiving configuration settings that specify a mapping between an encryption key and a data field; receiving a second request that is associated with data, the data including at least one data field and being received by an ingest resource of the resource provider environment; associating a default encryption key with the profile, the default encryption key for encrypting user data not identified by the profile; encrypting the at least one data field with the encryption key per the profile to generate encrypted data; allowing a destination resource of the resource provider environment access to the encrypted data; and decrypting the encrypted data at the destination resource using a decryption key per the profile.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: using a trained model to analyze the user data; determining sensitive data in the user data not included in the at least one data field; and encrypting the sensitive data using the default encryption key.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining data from a plurality of users; obtaining information that identifies portions of the data as including sensitive data; and training a model on the portions to generate a trained model operable to classify data as sensitive.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a notification that includes one or more user-selectable elements to indicate whether the encrypted data includes sensitive data.
5. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a request that is associated with data, the data including at least one data field and being received by an ingest resource of a resource provider environment, the resource provider environment including a plurality of resources connected through a network; determining whether to encrypt the at least one data field with an encryption key per a profile, the profile specifying at least one encryption key for encrypting user-submitted data; using one of a trained model, an untrained model, or a reinforced model to analyze the data; determining potentially sensitive data in the data not included in the at least one data field; encrypting the potentially sensitive data using a default encryption key associated with the profile to generate encrypted potentially sensitive data; and allowing a destination resource of the resource provider environment access to the at least one data field.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: providing an interface to generate the profile, the interface including options to associate one or more encryption keys with the profile, map encryption keys to data fields, or name the profile.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving configuration settings via an application program interface (API) to generate a profile, the configuration settings including information associating one or more encryption keys with the profile and data fields to encrypt using the one or more encryption keys.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the at least one data field includes a first data field and a second data field, the method further comprising: encrypting the first data field with a first encryption key per the profile and the second data field with a second encryption key per the profile, the first encryption key different from the second encryption key.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: encrypting the at least one data field with a first encryption key and a second encryption key per the profile, the first encryption key different from the second encryption key.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: providing a notification to at least one interface that includes one or more user-selectable elements indicating whether the encrypted potentially sensitive data includes user identified sensitive data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a selection of one of the user-selectable elements indicating the encrypted potentially sensitive data includes user identified sensitive data; and updating the trained model to encrypt data fields associated with the potentially sensitive data.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a selection of one of the user-selectable elements indicating the encrypted potentially sensitive data does not include sensitive data; and updating the trained model to ignore data fields associated with the potentially sensitive data.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: encrypting the at least one data field with the encryption key per the profile to generate encrypted data; and providing the encrypted data for decryption at the destination resource using a decryption key specified by the profile.
14. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive a request that is associated with data, the data including at least one data field and being received by an ingest resource of a resource provider environment, the resource provider environment including a plurality of resources connected through a network; receive the data from a user through one of a web site or application provided by a customer of the resource provider environment to the ingest resource; determine whether to encrypt the at least one data field with an encryption key per a profile, the profile specifying at least one encryption key for encrypting user-submitted data; and allow a destination resource of the resource provider environment access to the at least one data field.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: use a trained model to analyze the data; determine potentially sensitive data in the data not included in the at least one data field; receive an indication that the potentially sensitive data includes user identified sensitive data; and provide an interface to associate an encryption key with a data field associated with the user identified sensitive data.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the trained model includes a supervised learning model.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the encryption key and a decryption key are a key pair, the encryption key being a public key specified by the customer of the resource provider environment and the decryption key a private key to the public key.
</claims>
</document>
