<document>

<filing_date>
2014-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
IWAI YOSHIAKI
YOKONO, JUN
NAWA, RYUICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52996588
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and method for information processing
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is an information processing apparatus including a sorting unit configured to sort a second data set as evaluation data with a classifier generated by learning through supervised learning that uses a first data set as a supervision signal, an input unit configured to receive label correction for the second data set in accordance with a sorting result from the sorting unit, and an update unit configured to update the second data set to reflect the correction received by the input unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus, comprising: one or more processors configured to: sort a first data set as a supervision signal; conduct a supervised learning process based on the first data set to generate a classifier, wherein the first data set is a first set of pairs of data; sort a second data set as an evaluation signal; predict a second plurality of preset labels for the second data set based on the classifier, wherein the second data set is a second set of pairs of data; receive a first input; relabel a specific preset label of the second plurality of preset labels for one pair of data of the second data set based on the received first input, and an inconsistency between the specific preset label and a corresponding predicted specific preset label of the predicted second plurality of preset labels; update the second data set to reflect the relabeled specific preset label, wherein the second data set is updated based on the received first input; and control a first re-labelling process that conducts the supervised learning process based on the updated second data set to generate the classifier.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first input corresponds to correction of one of the second plurality of preset labels.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to output information that indicates at least one pair of data of the second data set, wherein the second data set has one of the second plurality of preset labels different from one of the predicted second plurality of preset labels.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to evaluate a sorting result with a confusion matrix, wherein the confusion matrix compares the second plurality of preset labels with the predicted second plurality of preset labels.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein each of the first set of pairs of data and each of the second set of pairs of data comprise at least one of at least one moving image, at least one static image, or at least one sound.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: control the first re-labelling process that: sorts the first data as the evaluation signal based on the classifier; predicts a first plurality of preset labels for the first data set; receives a second input to relabel the first plurality of preset labels for the first data set; and updates the first data set based on the received second input.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to control a second re-labelling process that: conducts the supervised learning process based on the updated first data set and the updated second data set to generate the classifier, wherein the updated first data set is based on the first re-labelling process, and the updated first data set corresponds to the supervision signal; sorts the second data set as the evaluation signal based on the classifier; receives a third input to relabel the second plurality of preset labels for the updated second data set; and updates the updated second data set based on the received third input.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to alternately repeat the first re-labelling process and the second re-labelling process.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to alternately repeat the first re-labelling process and the second re-labelling process until the reception of one of the first input or the second input.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: generate a new data set based on addition of a third data set to at least one of the updated first data set or the updated second data set to increase prediction accuracy of the supervised learning process.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to conduct the supervised learning process of the classifier based on one of the updated first data set or the updated second data set, and the one of the updated first data set or the updated second data set corresponds to the supervision signal.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: extract a feature value of each pair of data of the first data set and each pair of data of the second data set; set a first plurality of preset labels to the first data set; and set the second plurality of preset labels to the second data set, wherein each of the first plurality of preset labels and each of the second plurality of preset labels are set based on a parameter, and the parameter describes an association between extracted feature value of the each pair of data of the first data set and the each pair of data of the second data set, and a corresponding preset label of one of the first plurality of preset labels or the second plurality of preset labels.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon computer-executable instructions, which when executed by a computer, cause the computer to execute operations, the operations comprising: sorting a first data set as a supervision signal; conducting a supervised learning process based on the first data set to generate a classifier, wherein the first data set is a first set of pairs of data; sorting a second data set as an evaluation signal; predicting a plurality of preset labels for the second data set based on the classifier, wherein the second data set is a second set of pairs of data; receiving an input; relabeling a preset label of the plurality of preset labels for one pair of data of the second data set based on the received input, and an inconsistency between the preset label and a predicted preset label of the predicted plurality of preset labels; updating the second data set to reflect the relabeled preset label, wherein the second data set is updated based on the received first input; and controlling a re-labelling process that conducts the supervised learning process based on the updated second data set to generate the classifier.
</claims>
</document>
