<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9035,G06F16/9038,G06F16/906,G06F9/50,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAS INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALDASARO, RUTH ELLEN
CHAPMAN-MCQUISTON, EMILY LOUISE
HARGROVE, JENNIFER LEE
ROWE, EDWARD LEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68096500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for automated monitoring and control of adherence parameters
</title>

<abstract>
Exemplary embodiments relate to systems for building a model of changes to data items when information the data items is limited or not directly observed. Exemplary embodiments allow properties of the data items to be inferred using a single data structure and creates a highly granular log of changes to the data item. Using this data structure, the time-varying nature of changes to the data item can be determined. The data structure may be used to identify characteristics associated with a regularly-performed action, to examine how adherence to the action affects a system, and to identify outcomes of non-adherence. Fungible data items may be mapped to a remediable condition or remedy class. This may be accomplished by automatically deriving conditions and remedial information from available information, matching the conditions to remedial classes or types via a customizable mapping, and then calculating adherence for the condition on the available information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to compute adherence to an action relating to a data item, the instructions comprising instructions for: receive one or more input signals, the one or more input signals comprising information associated with a first data item stored in the database, the first data item associated with a first value; perform an interpolation process on the input signals, the interpolation process comprising: deriving one or more conditions associated with the data item, mapping the conditions to classes of data items based on a mapping data structure, and mapping the classes of data items to a set of data items in the database based on the received information associated with the first data item, wherein the set of data items includes the first data item and a second data item; generating a tracking data structure based on the interpolation process, the tracking data structure comprising: a user identifier, a condition identifier, a class of data items, a data item identifier, a time corresponding to a change in the data time, an amount of time associated with the change in the data item; for each condition derived in the interpolation process, computing an adherence value from the tracking data structure based on the values of the first data item and the second data item; determining that at least one of the adherence values is below a predetermined threshold value; generating one or more warning signals in response to the at least one adherence value being below the predetermined threshold value; and transmitting the one or more warning signals to a server associated with the data item.
2. The medium of claim 1, wherein the tracking data structure is an inventory tracking data structure configured to track an inventory of a product, an inventory of a service, an inventory in a brokered marketplace, or a maintenance lifespan.
3. The medium of claim 1, wherein the first data item represents a computing resource.
4. The medium of claim 3, wherein the interpolation process interpolates a state of a network in between arrivals of respective network data packets.
5. The medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more input signals comprise a delivery schedule related to the first data item.
6. The medium of claim 1, wherein the interpolation process interpolates values for the set of data items between direct observations.
7. The medium of claim 1, further storing instructions for accessing a controls set, the controls set comprising: a list of one or more conditions pertaining to at least one category in the tracking data structure, and an action to be taken when the one or more conditions are met.
8. The medium of claim 1, wherein the tracking data structure represents a single source of information that identifies a value of the first data item at a given time.
9. The medium of claim 1, wherein the interpolation process identifies an expected rate at which an inventory is being used or depleted.
10. The medium of claim 9, wherein the expected rate is determined based on historical data, estimated data usage, estimated usage rates, or prescribed usage rates.
11. A computer-implemented method for computing adherence to an action relating to a data item, the method comprising: receive one or more input signals, the one or more input signals comprising information associated with a first data item stored in the database, the first data item associated with a first value; perform an interpolation process on the input signals, the interpolation process comprising: deriving one or more conditions associated with the data item, mapping the conditions to classes of data items based on a mapping data structure, and mapping the classes of data items to a set of data items in the database based on the received information associated with the first data item, wherein the set of data items includes the first data item and a second data item; generating a tracking data structure based on the interpolation process, the tracking data structure comprising: a user identifier, a condition identifier, a class of data items, a data item identifier, a time corresponding to a change in the data time, an amount of time associated with the change in the data item; for each condition derived in the interpolation process, computing an adherence value from the tracking data structure based on the values of the first data item and the second data item; determining that at least one of the adherence values is below a predetermined threshold value; generating one or more warning signals in response to the at least one adherence value being below the predetermined threshold value; and transmitting the one or more warning signals to a server associated with the data item.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the tracking data structure is an inventory tracking data structure configured to track an inventory of a product, an inventory of a service, an inventory in a brokered marketplace, or a maintenance lifespan.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first data item represents a computing resource.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the interpolation process interpolates a state of a network in between arrivals of respective network data packets.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more input signals comprise a delivery schedule related to the first data item.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the interpolation process interpolates values for the set of data items between direct observations.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising accessing a controls set, the controls set comprising: a list of one or more conditions pertaining to at least one category in the tracking data structure, and an action to be taken when the one or more conditions are met.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the tracking data structure represents a single source of information that identifies a value of the first data item at a given time.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the interpolation process identifies an expected rate at which an inventory is being used or depleted.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the expected rate is determined based on historical data, estimated data usage, estimated usage rates, or prescribed usage rates.
21. An apparatus configured to compute adherence to an action relating to a data item, the apparatus comprising: a hardware interface configured to receive one or more input signals, the one or more input signals comprising information associated with a first data item stored in the database, the first data item associated with a first value; a hardware processor configured to: perform an interpolation process on the input signals, the interpolation process comprising: deriving one or more conditions associated with the data item, mapping the conditions to classes of data items based on a mapping data structure, and mapping the classes of data items to a set of data items in the database based on the received information associated with the first data item, wherein the set of data items includes the first data item and a second data item; generate a tracking data structure based on the interpolation process, the tracking data structure comprising: a user identifier, a condition identifier, a class of data items, a data item identifier, a time corresponding to a change in the data time, an amount of time associated with the change in the data item; for each condition derived in the interpolation process, compute an adherence value from the tracking data structure based on the values of the first data item and the second data item; determine that at least one of the adherence values is below a predetermined threshold value; generate one or more warning signals in response to the at least one adherence value being below the predetermined threshold value; and a non-transitory computer readable medium configured to store the tracking data structure; wherein the hardware interface is further configured to transmit the one or more warning signals to a server associated with the data item.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the tracking data structure is an inventory tracking data structure configured to track an inventory of a product, an inventory of a service, an inventory in a brokered marketplace, or a maintenance lifespan.
23. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the first data item represents a computing resource.
24. The apparatus of claim 23, wherein the interpolation process interpolates a state of a network in between arrivals of respective network data packets.
25. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the one or more input signals comprise a delivery schedule related to the first data item.
26. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the interpolation process interpolates values for the set of data items between direct observations.
27. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to access a controls set, the controls set comprising: a list of one or more conditions pertaining to at least one category in the tracking data structure, and an action to be taken when the one or more conditions are met.
28. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the tracking data structure represents a single source of information that identifies a value of the first data item at a given time.
29. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the interpolation process identifies an expected rate at which an inventory is being used or depleted.
30. The apparatus of claim 29, wherein the expected rate is determined based on historical data, estimated data usage, estimated usage rates, or prescribed usage rates.
</claims>
</document>
