<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/41,G06F21/62,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, NAMIT
MUTHA, AKSHAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65518381
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Default to signed-in state
</title>

<abstract>
Non-limiting examples of the present disclosure describe generation of a default signed-in state for subsequent authenticated access to a service. Identity provider data for a service is retrieved from any number of identity providers (e.g. a first identity provider and second identity provider). The first and second identity data is evaluated for generation of a default signed-in state to the service. An evaluation determines that at least one of the first identity data and the second identity data comprises data indicating that a user account is signed-in to the service. Data representing the default signed-in state is generated based on a result of the evaluation. The data representing the default signed-in state comprises a selection of one of the first or second identity data that corresponds with the user account that is signed-in to the service. A representation of the service in the default signed-in state may be surfaced.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: retrieving, from a first identity provider, first identity provider data for a service; retrieving, from a second identity provider that is different from the first identity provider, second identity provider data for the service; evaluating the first identity data and the second identity data for generation of a default signed-in state to the service, wherein the evaluating determines that the first identity data indicates that a user account is signed-in to the service using a first user account and the second identity data indicates that a second user account is signed-in to the service; generating, based on a result of the evaluating, data representing the default signed-in state, wherein the data representing the default signed-in state is generated based on application of preference rules for the service that selects one of the first identity data and the second identity data as an identity for the default signed-in state; and surfacing a representation of the service in the default signed-in state, wherein the service utilizes the data representing the default signed-in state to provide an authenticated user experience for the identity without requiring additional login to the service.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the service is accessed via a web browser, and wherein the surfacing provides the representation of the service based on one of: a launch of a new browser window of the web browser and a launch of a new browser tab of the web browser.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surfacing comprises transmitting the data representing the default signed-in state to the service, and wherein the service is accessed via a web browser.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of data representing the default signed-in state further comprises: creating a new cookie for authentication of the identity based on a result of the application of the preference rules for the service, and wherein the new cookie is utilized to create the surfaced representation of the service in the default signed-in state.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the service is part of a suite of software services, and wherein the default signed-in state provides access to services of the suite of software services.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the user account is a consumer user account and the second user account is a business user account, and wherein the preference rules for the service comprises a preference rule that prioritizes one of the consumer account and the business account over the other.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: executing a web component that interfaces with a computing device that is running the service in which the first user account and the second user account are signed-in to, and wherein the web component is configured to executed machine learning processing that is configured to apply the preference rules for the service to select one of the first identity data and the second identity data as the identity for the default signed-in state.
8. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory, operatively connected with the at least one processor, storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to execute a method that comprises: retrieving, from a first identity provider, first identity provider data for a service; retrieving, from a second identity provider that is different from the first identity provider, second identity provider data for the service; evaluating the first identity data and the second identity data for generation of a default signed-in state to the service, wherein the evaluating determines that the first identity data indicates that a user account is signed-in to the service using a first user account and the second identity data indicates that a second user account is signed-in to the service; generating, based on a result of the evaluating, data representing the default signed-in state, wherein the data representing the default signed-in state is generated based on application of preference rules for the service that selects one of the first identity data and the second identity data as an identity for the default signed-in state; and surfacing a representation of the service in the default signed-in state, wherein the service utilizes the data representing the default signed-in state to provide an authenticated user experience for the identity without requiring additional login to the service.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the service is accessed via a web browser, and wherein the surfacing provides the representation of the service based on one of: a launch of a new browser window of the web browser and a launch of a new browser tab of the web browser.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the surfacing comprises transmitting the data representing the default signed-in state to the service, and wherein the service is accessed via a web browser.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the generating of data representing the default signed-in state further comprises: creating a new cookie for authentication of the identity based on a result of the application of the preference rules for the service, and wherein the new cookie is utilized to create the surfaced representation of the service in the default signed-in state.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the service is part of a suite of software services, and wherein the default signed-in state provides access to services of the suite of software services.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the user account is a consumer user account and the second user account is a business user account, and wherein the preference rules for the service comprises a preference rule that prioritizes one of the consumer account and the business account over the other.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the method, executed by the at least one processor, further comprises: executing a web component that interfaces with a computing device that is running the service in which the first user account and the second user account are signed-in to, and wherein the web component is configured to executed machine learning processing that is configured to apply the preference rules for the service to select one of the first identity data and the second identity data as the identity for the default signed-in state.
15. A computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to execute a method comprising: retrieving, from a first identity provider, first identity provider data for a service; retrieving, from a second identity provider that is different from the first identity provider, second identity provider data for the service; evaluating the first identity data and the second identity data for generation of a default signed-in state to the service, wherein the evaluating determines that the first identity data indicates that a user account is signed-in to the service using a first user account and the second identity data indicates that a second user account is signed-in to the service; generating, based on a result of the evaluating, data representing the default signed-in state, wherein the data representing the default signed-in state is generated based on application of preference rules for the service that selects one of the first identity data and the second identity data as an identity for the default signed-in state; and transmitting the data representing the default signed-in state to a computing device that is usable for presentation of the default signed-in state for the identity without requiring additional login to the service.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the service is accessed via a web browser, and wherein the surfacing provides the representation of the service based on one of: a launch of a new browser window of the web browser and a launch of a new browser tab of the web browser.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the generating of data representing the default signed-in state further comprises: creating a new cookie for authentication of the identity based on a result of the application of the preference rules for the service, and wherein the new cookie is utilized to create the surfaced representation of the service in the default signed-in state.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the service is part of a suite of software services, and wherein the default signed-in state provides access to services of the suite of software services.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the user account is a consumer user account and the second user account is a business user account, and wherein the preference rules for the service comprises a preference rule that prioritizes one of the consumer account and the business account over the other.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method, executed by the at least one processor, further comprising: executing a web component that interfaces with a computing device that is running the service in which the first user account and the second user account are signed-in to, and wherein the web component is configured to executed machine learning processing that is configured to apply the preference rules for the service to select one of the first identity data and the second identity data as the identity for the default signed-in state.
</claims>
</document>
