<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T13/40,G06T15/04,G06T17/00,G06T17/20,G06T19/00,G06T19/20,G06T7/50,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
METAIL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADEYOOLA, TOM
CHEN, YU
DOWNING, JIM
TOWNSEND, JOE
SHIN, DONGJOE
ROBERTSON, DUNCAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56958954
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods of generating personalized 3D head models or 3D body models
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method of generating an image file of a personalized 3D head model of a user, the method comprising the steps of: (i) acquiring at least one 2D image of the user's face; (ii) performing automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) providing a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) providing texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate a personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generating an image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user. A related system and computer program product are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating an image file of a personalized three-dimensional (3D) head model of a user, the method comprising the steps of: (i) acquiring at least one two-dimensional (2D) image of the user's face; (ii) performing automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) providing a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) providing texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate the personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generating the image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user; wherein the generated texture map includes a 3D mesh geometry of the user's face comprising mesh triangles; UV texture coordinates are determined for texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face; in which a UV coordinate of a landmark vertex is computed based on a result of a corresponding 2D face landmark position detected by a 2D face landmark detector on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; in which head geometry is improved for better realism by deforming an initial head model by rectifying facial landmark positions of the personalized 3D head model in directions within an image plane of the at least one 2D image of the user's face, so that a projection of facial landmarks on the personalized 3D head model is a similarity transform of corresponding 2D facial landmarks in the at least one 2D image of the user's face.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one 2D image of the user's face is acquired via a network communication.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one 2D image of the user's face is acquired via the network communication, from a smartphone including a camera.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one 2D image of the user's face is a front image of the user's face.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one 2D image of the user's face is a smartphone camera image of the user's face.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the automated face 2D landmark recognition includes using the 2D face landmark detector.
7. The method of claim 1, in which the image file is a 3D image file.
8. The method of claim 1, in which the image file is a 2D image file.
9. The method of claim 1, in which the image file is an animation file.
10. The method of claim 1, in which the image file is a personalised sticker set.
11. The method of claim 1, in which head size is estimated from body shape parameters.
12. The method of claim 1, in which an automatic image analysis is performed to help the user quickly acquire input data of good quality.
13. The method of claim 12, in which prior to starting the video or image capture, the user is presented with a live view of a camera feed, and a feedback mechanism analyses the live view and provides the user with recommendations on how to improve conditions in order to achieve a high quality end result.
14. The method of claim 1, in which a machine-learning-based attribute classifier, which can be implemented by a deep convolutional neural network (CNN), is used to analyze the at least one 2D image of the user's face, and predict attributes from appearance information in the at least one 2D image of the user's face.
15. The method of claim 1, in which a 3D thin-plate spline (TPS) deformation model is used to rectify a 3D geometry of a regressed head model to achieve better geometric similarity, so as to generate a smooth interpolation of 3D geometry deformation throughout the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face from control point pairs.
16. The method of claim 1, in which to complete the generated texture map of the personalized 3D head model, a 2D thin plate spline (TPS) model is used for interpolation and to populate the UV texture coordinates over the texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face.
17. The method of claim 1, in which the at least one 2D image of the user's face comprises at least a front image, a left side image and a right side image, of the user's face, and in which following generating an approximate 3D face model from the front image for use as an initialisation model, a step is performed of performing an iterative optimisation algorithm for revising the initialisation model, which is implemented to minimise landmark re-projection errors against independent 2D face landmark detection results obtained from the front image, the left side image and the right side image, of the user's face.
18. A system including a processor, wherein the processor is configured to generate an image file of a personalized three-dimensional (3D) head model of a user, the processor configured to: (i) acquire at least one two-dimensional (2D) image of the user's face; (ii) perform automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) provide a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) provide texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate the personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generate the image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user; wherein the generated texture map includes a 3D mesh geometry of the user's face comprising mesh triangles; UV texture coordinates are determined for texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face; in which a UV coordinate of a landmark vertex is computed based on a result of a corresponding 2D face landmark position detected by a 2D face landmark detector on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; in which head geometry is improved for better realism by deforming an initial head model by rectifying facial landmark positions of the personalized 3D head model in directions within an image plane of the at least one 2D image of the user's face, so that a projection of facial landmarks on the personalized 3D head model is a similarity transform of corresponding 2D facial landmarks in the at least one 2D image of the user's face.
19. A computer program product embodied on a non-transitory storage medium, the computer program product comprising instructions executable on a processor to generate an image file of a personalized three-dimensional (3D) head model of a user, the computer program product executable on the processor to: (i) receive at least one two-dimensional (2D) image of the user's face; (ii) perform an automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) provide a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) provide texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate the personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generate the image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user; wherein the generated texture map includes a 3D mesh geometry of the user's face comprising mesh triangles; UV texture coordinates are determined for texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face; in which a UV coordinate of a landmark vertex is computed based on a result of a corresponding 2D face landmark position detected by a 2D face landmark detector on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; in which head geometry is improved for better realism by deforming an initial head model by rectifying facial landmark positions of the personalized 3D head model in directions within an image plane of the at least one 2D image of the user's face, so that a projection of facial landmarks on the personalized 3D head model is a similarity transform of corresponding 2D facial landmarks in the at least one 2D image of the user's face.
20. A method of generating an image file of a personalized three-dimensional (3D) head model of a user, the method comprising the steps of: (i) acquiring at least one two-dimensional (2D) image of the user's face; (ii) performing automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) providing a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) providing texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate the personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generating the image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user; wherein the generated texture map includes a 3D mesh geometry of the user's face comprising mesh triangles; UV texture coordinates are determined for texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face; in which a UV coordinate of a landmark vertex is computed based on a result of a corresponding 2D face landmark position detected by a 2D face landmark detector on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; in which a 3D thin-plate spline (TPS) deformation model is used to rectify a 3D geometry of a regressed head model to achieve better geometric similarity, so as to generate a smooth interpolation of 3D geometry deformation throughout the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face from control point pairs.
21. A method of generating an image file of a personalized three-dimensional (3D) head model of a user, the method comprising the steps of: (i) acquiring at least one two-dimensional (2D) image of the user's face; (ii) performing automated face 2D landmark recognition based on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; (iii) providing a 3D face geometry reconstruction using a shape prior; (iv) providing texture map generation and interpolation with respect to the 3D face geometry reconstruction to generate the personalized 3D head model of the user, and (v) generating the image file of the personalized 3D head model of the user; wherein the generated texture map includes a 3D mesh geometry of the user's face comprising mesh triangles; UV texture coordinates are determined for texture vertices of each mesh triangle of the 3D mesh geometry of the user's face; in which a UV coordinate of a landmark vertex is computed based on a result of a corresponding 2D face landmark position detected by a 2D face landmark detector on the at least one 2D image of the user's face; in which the at least one 2D image of the user's face comprises at least a front image, a left side image and a right side image, of the user's face, and in which following generating an approximate 3D face model from the front image for use as an initialisation model, a step is performed of performing an iterative optimisation algorithm for revising the initialisation model, which is implemented to minimise landmark re-projection errors against independent 2D face landmark detection results obtained from the front image, the left side image and the right side image, of the user's face.
</claims>
</document>
