<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q50/22,G16H10/60,G16H10/65
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUMETRIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
EXPERTON, BETTINA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
46796886
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile device-based system for automated, real time health record exchange
</title>

<abstract>
A method, an apparatus, and a computer program product for accessing electronic medical records are provided in which a portable computing device uniquely associated with a user authenticates an identification of the user and automatically retrieves information corresponding to the user from electronic healthcare records systems using the identification. The retrieved information may be combined with other information and electronically delivered to a healthcare provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A portable computing device configured for controlling health record exchange, comprising: a wireless communication transceiver configured to couple the portable computing device to one or more wireless communication networks; an electronic credential that uniquely associates the portable computing device with an individual who owns health-related information that includes a set of electronic healthcare records stored in the portable computing device; and a processor configured to: use the electronic credential to authenticate a user of the portable computing device as the individual who owns the health-related information; receive a transfer request from the authenticated user that includes a time-limited consent to release the set of electronic healthcare records to a healthcare provider; use the electronic credential to access the set of electronic healthcare records; establish communication between the portable computing device and a system operated by the healthcare provider; and cause the wireless communication transceiver to transfer the set of electronic healthcare records to the system operated by the healthcare provider responsive to the transfer request and in accordance with the time-limited consent, wherein the set of electronic healthcare records is obtained using a filter based on rules established on the portable computing device by the authenticated user, and wherein the processor is further configured to transfer the set of electronic healthcare records to a device operated by the healthcare provider when the device operated by the healthcare provider is proximately-located to the portable computing device.
2. The portable computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: use the time-limited consent to update the set of electronic healthcare records stored in the portable computing device or stored in one or more electronic health records systems.
3. The portable computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: establish a connection through a wireless network with a repository of electronic health records; and use the time-limited consent to update the repository based on the set of electronic healthcare records stored in the portable computing device.
4. The portable computing device of claim 3, wherein the repository comprises a payor or electronic healthcare records system.
5. The portable computing device of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to: create new healthcare records in the set of electronic healthcare records stored in the portable computing device; and use the time-limited consent to provide the new healthcare records to the repository.
6. The portable computing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to create the new healthcare records by accessing records created by one or more applications executed on the portable computing device.
7. The portable computing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to create the new healthcare records after receiving modified electronic healthcare records transmitted by the system operated by the healthcare provider.
8. The portable computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: transmit modified electronic healthcare records to the system operated by the healthcare provider.
9. The portable computing device of claim 8, wherein the modified electronic healthcare records include new healthcare records created by one or more applications executed on the portable computing device.
10. The portable computing device of claim 1, wherein the portable computing device comprises a smart phone or a tablet computer and wherein the set of records is encrypted by the smart phone or tablet computer.
11. The portable computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: cause the wireless communication transceiver to transfer the set of electronic healthcare records to the system through a proximately-located computing device that is part of or coupled to the system operated by the healthcare provider.
12. A method for controlling health record exchange, comprising: using an electronic credential maintained in a portable computing device to authenticate a user of the portable computing device as an individual who owns health-related information stored in the portable computing device; receiving a transfer request from the authenticated user to release a portion of the health-related information to a system operated by a healthcare provider or repository, the transfer request including a time-limited consent of the authenticated user to release the portion of the electronic healthcare records to the healthcare provider; and transferring the portion of the health-related information to the system operated by the healthcare provider or repository in response to the transfer request and in accordance with the time-limited consent, wherein the portable computing device is configured to transfer the portion of the health-related information to a device operated by the healthcare provider when the device operated by the healthcare provider is proximately-located to the portable computing device, wherein the portion of the health-related information is selected using a filter based on rules established on the portable computing device by the authenticated user, and wherein the portion of the health-related information is transferred after communication between the portable computing device and the system operated by the healthcare provider has been established.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: using the time-limited consent and a wireless network to update one or more electronic health records systems based on the health-related information stored in the portable computing device, wherein the portable computing device comprises a smart phone or a tablet computer.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: establishing a connection through a wireless network with a repository of electronic health records; and using the time-limited consent to update the repository based on the health-related information stored in the portable computing device, wherein the repository comprises a payor or electronic health records system.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: creating new healthcare records in a set of electronic healthcare records stored in the portable computing device; and using the time-limited consent to provide the new healthcare records to the repository.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: creating the new healthcare records by accessing records created by one or more applications executed on the portable computing device, wherein the portable computing device comprises a smart phone or a tablet computer.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: creating the new healthcare records after receiving modified electronic healthcare records from the system operated by the healthcare provider.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: transmitting modified electronic healthcare records to the system operated by the healthcare provider, wherein the modified electronic healthcare records include new healthcare records created by one or more applications executed on the portable computing device.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: delivering the portion of the health-related information to the system through a proximately-located computing device that is part of or coupled to the system operated by the healthcare provider.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions, which when executed by a processor of a portable computing device, cause the portable computing device to: use an electronic credential maintained in the portable computing device to authenticate a user of the portable computing device as an owner of health-related information stored in the portable computing device, wherein the electronic credential uniquely associates the portable computing device with the owner of the health-related information; receive a transfer request from the authenticated user that includes a time-limited consent to release a portion of the health-related information to a repository or a system operated by a healthcare provider; configure a filter that selects the portion of the health-related information to be released to the repository or the system operated by the healthcare provider; and transfer the portion of the health-related information to the repository or the system operated by the healthcare provider in response to the transfer request and in accordance with the time-limited consent, wherein the portable computing device is configured to transfer the portion of the health-related information to a device operated by the healthcare provider when the device operated by the healthcare provider is proximately-located to the portable computing device system.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 20, wherein the instructions cause the portable computing device to: receive new healthcare records created by an application executed on the portable computing device; and adding the new healthcare records to the portion of the health-related information to be released to the repository or the system operated by the healthcare provider.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 20, wherein the instructions cause the portable computing device to: periodically establish communication between the portable computing device and the repository or the system operated by the healthcare provider; and transfer the portion of the health-related information to the repository or the system operated by the healthcare provider after the communication has been established.
</claims>
</document>
