<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
SLAVIN, ALISON JANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60142569
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Pet security monitoring
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic monitoring system is described that receives data indicating a location of a wireless beacon device that has been detected by a beacon monitoring device, and an identifier that is associated with the wireless beacon device, wherein the identifier corresponds to a mobile asset associated with a property. A location of the wireless beacon device is determined to be outside of an area that defines permissible locations of the mobile asset. Based on the determination, the electronic monitoring system determines to dispatch a robotic device to the location of the wireless beacon device. A particular robotic device to dispatch is identified based on the determination to dispatch a robotic device to the location of the wireless beacon device. A command is transmitted to the particular robotic device that instructs the particular robotic device to navigate to the location of the wireless beacon device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic property monitoring system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the electronic property monitoring system to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining first time data, wherein the first time data describes a first time of day; obtaining first sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the first sensor data describes first weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprising: determining that the first time data satisfies a predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the first sensor data satisfies a predetermined weather rule for allowing a monitored asset to exit the property; based on determining that the first connected door is to be opened and before opening the first door, determining whether a first status of a second connected door of the property is open or closed; and based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is closed: transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
2. The property monitoring system of claim 1, wherein property monitoring system comprises an application monitoring server and a monitoring system control unit.
3. The property monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system devices include one or more of a camera, a drone, a climate sensor, a motion sensor, or a transmitter of a tracking device attached to the monitored asset.
4. The property monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the climate sensor includes one or more of a rain sensor, a humidity sensor, an outdoor temperature sensor, a light sensor, or a wind sensor.
5. The property monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is open: transmitting an instruction to the second connected door to cause the second connected door to close; and after determining that the second connected door has closed, transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
6. The property monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining second sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the second sensor data describes second weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the second sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the first time data satisfies the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the second sensor data does not satisfy the predetermined weather rule for allowing the monitoring asset to exit the property; and, determining, based on the determination that the predetermined weather rule was not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
7. The property monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining second time data, wherein the second time data describes a second time of day; determining, based on the second time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the second time data does not the satisfy the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining, based on the determination that the predetermined time rule is not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
8. A method for using a property monitoring system to facilitate exits of a monitored asset from an inside portion of a property, the method comprising: obtaining first time data, wherein the first time data describes a first time of day; obtaining first sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the first sensor data describes first weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprising: determining that the first time data satisfies a predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the first sensor data satisfies a predetermined weather rule for allowing the monitored asset to exit the property; based on determining that the first connected door is to be opened and before opening the first door, determining whether a first status of a second connected door of the property is open or closed; and based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is closed: transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the monitoring system devices include one or more of a camera, a drone, a climate sensor, a motion sensor, or a transmitter of a tracking device attached to the monitored asset.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the climate sensor includes one or more of a rain sensor, a humidity sensor, an outdoor temperature sensor, a light sensor, or a wind sensor.
11. The method of claim 8, the method further comprising: based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is open: transmitting an instruction to the second connected door to cause the second connected door to close; and after determining that the second connected door has closed, transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
12. The method of claim 8, the method further comprising: obtaining second sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the second sensor data describes second weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the second sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the first time data satisfies the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the second sensor data does not satisfy the predetermined weather rule for allowing the monitoring asset to exit the property; and, determining, based on the determination that the predetermined weather rule was not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
13. The method of claim 8, the method further comprising: obtaining second time data, wherein the second time data describes a second time of day; determining, based on the second time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the second time data does not the satisfy the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining, based on the determination that the predetermined time rule is not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
14. A computer-readable storage device having stored thereon instructions, which, when executed by data processing apparatus, cause the data processing apparatus to perform operations comprising: obtaining first time data, wherein the first time data describes a first time of day; obtaining first sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the first sensor data describes first weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprising: determining that the first time data satisfies a predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the first sensor data satisfies a predetermined weather rule for allowing the monitored asset to exit the property; based on determining that the first connected door is to be opened and before opening the first door, determining whether a first status of a second connected door of the property is open or closed; and based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is closed: transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
15. The computer-readable storage device of claim 14, wherein the monitoring system devices include one or more of a camera, a drone, a climate sensor, a motion sensor, or a transmitter of a tracking device attached to the monitored asset.
16. The computer-readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the climate sensor includes one or more of a rain sensor, a humidity sensor, an outdoor temperature sensor, a light sensor, or a wind sensor.
17. The computer-readable storage device of claim 14, the operations further comprising: based on a determination that the second connected door of the property is open: transmitting an instruction to the second connected door to cause the second connected door to close; and after determining that the second connected door has closed, transmitting an instruction to the first connected door to cause the first connected door to open.
18. The computer-readable storage device of claim 14, the operations further comprising: obtaining second sensor data generated by one or more monitoring system devices, wherein the second sensor data describes second weather conditions on the outside of the property; determining, based on the first time data and the second sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the first time data satisfies the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining that the second sensor data does not satisfy the predetermined weather rule for allowing the monitoring asset to exit the property; and, determining, based on the determination that the predetermined weather rule was not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
19. The computer-readable storage device of claim 14, the operations further comprising: obtaining second time data, wherein the second time data describes a second time of day; determining, based on the second time data and the first sensor data, whether a first connected door of the property is to be opened, wherein the determining comprises: determining that the second time data does not the satisfy the predetermined time rule for opening the first door; and determining, based on the determination that the predetermined time rule is not satisfied, that the first door is not to be opened.
</claims>
</document>
