<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/04,G06Q30/06,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DILLE, JACK CAMERON
HUDGINS, JOSHUA CURTIS
SAMADANI-MCQUIRK, NAVID
YEH, SHIH-HAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64083137
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Graphical user interface modified via inputs from an electronic document
</title>

<abstract>
A computing device receives a request to render a listing of item entries on a graphical user interface. The computing device receives an electronic image of the document, analyzes the electronic image, and determines a document type by performing an image recognition on a first portion the electronic image, comparing information extrapolated via the image recognition algorithm to a database of document types, and identifying a match between the extrapolated information a document type. The computing device applies an OCR algorithm that corresponds to the determined document type to a second portion of the electronic image, identifies items extracted from the second portion, determines that at least one identified item matches an original item entry, and marks each matching item. The computing device renders an updated listing of item entries on the graphical user interface with a listing of each non-matching item and a marked listing of each matching item.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method to render a display list on a graphical user interface, comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, a request to render a listing of items on a graphical user interface of a user computing device, the listing of items comprising one or more original items; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a notification of selection of a user interface element on the user computing device requesting modification of the listing of items; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, an electronic image of a document associated with a transaction; analyzing, by the one or more computing devices after completing the transaction, the electronic image of the document by: determining a document type by performing image recognition on a first portion the electronic image, comparing information extrapolated via the image recognition to a database of document types, and identifying a match between the extrapolated information and the document type; applying an optical character recognition algorithm that corresponds to the determined document type to a second portion of the electronic image; identifying items extracted from the second portion of the electronic image via the optical character recognition algorithm, determining that at least one identified item matches at least one of the one or more original items, and marking each matching item; and rendering, by the one or more computing devices, an updated listing of items on the graphical user interface of the user computing device, the updated listing of items comprising a listing of each non-matching item and a marked listing of each matching item.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting an instruction to an application on the user computing device to activate a camera on the user computing device.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising capturing, by the user computing device, the electronic image of the document.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein capturing the electronic image comprises photographing the document, and wherein the electronic image of the document is analyzed by the one or more computing devices in response to photographing the document.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein capturing the electronic image comprises selecting an existing image from a file directory.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving the electronic image of the document comprises receiving a selection of an existing image from a file directory.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the electronic image comprises a logo.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises moving each matching item to a designated section on listing rendered on the graphical user interface.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises crossing off the matching item or placing a graphical mark next to the matching item.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the document associated with the transaction comprises a receipt of the transaction.
11. A system to render a display list on a graphical user interface, comprising: a storage device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the storage device, wherein the processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the storage device to cause the system to: receive a request to render a listing of items on a graphical user interface of a user computing device, the listing of items comprising one or more original items; receive a notification of selection of a user interface element on the user computing device requesting modification of the listing of items; activate an image capture device on the user computing device; receive an electronic image of a document from the image capture device; analyze the electronic image of the document by: determining a document type by performing image recognition on a first portion the electronic image, comparing information extrapolated via the image recognition to a database of document types, and identifying a match between the extrapolated information a document type; applying an optical character recognition algorithm that corresponds to the determined document type to a second portion of the electronic image; identifying items extracted from the second portion of the electronic image via the optical character recognition algorithm, determining that at least one identified item matches at least one of the one or more original items, and marking each matching item; and render, in response to receiving an electronic image of the document from the image capture device, an updated listing of items on the graphical user interface of the user computing device, the updated listing of items comprising a listing of each non-matching item and a marked listing of each matching item.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein activating the image capture device on the user computing device comprises activating a camera on the user computing device.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises moving each matching item to a designated section on listing rendered on the graphical user interface.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises crossing off the matching item or placing a graphical mark next to the matching item.
15. A computer program product, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having computer-readable program instructions embodied therein that when executed by a computer cause the computer to render a display list on a graphical user interface, the computer-readable program instructions comprising: computer-readable program instructions to receive a request to render a listing of items on a graphical user interface of a user computing device, the listing of items comprising one or more original items; computer-readable program instructions to receive a notification of selection of a user interface element on the user computing device requesting modification of the listing of items; computer-readable program instructions to receive an electronic image of a document associated with a transaction; computer-readable program instructions to analyze, after completing the transaction, the electronic image of the document by: determining a document type by performing image recognition on a first portion the electronic image, comparing information extrapolated via the image recognition to a database of document types, and identifying a match between the extrapolated information and the document type; applying an optical character recognition algorithm that corresponds to the determined document type to a second portion of the electronic image; identifying items extracted from the second portion of the electronic image via the optical character recognition algorithm, determining that at least one identified item matches at least one of the one or more original items, and marking each matching item; and computer-readable program instructions to render an updated listing of items on the graphical user interface of the user computing device, the updated listing of items comprising a listing of each non-matching item and a marked listing of each matching item.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable instructions comprise computer-readable instructions to activate a camera on the user computing device.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein receiving the electronic image of the document comprises receiving a selection of an existing image from a file directory.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises moving each matching item to a designated section on listing rendered on the graphical user interface.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the marking for each matching item comprises crossing off the matching item or placing a graphical mark next to the matching item.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the electronic image comprises a logo.
</claims>
</document>
