<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N20/10,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L21/0216,G10L25/51,G10L25/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JEONG, JAEWOONG
HWANG, SEUNGHYUN
LEE, KEUNSANG
KIM, YOUNGMAN
LEE, BONGKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus for noise canceling and method for the same
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment of the present invention provides an apparatus for noise canceling that includes: an input unit configured to receive an input voice signal; and one or more processors configured to perform a first noise cancellation using as input the received input voice signal to generate a first voice signal by cancelling noise from the input voice signal using a noise canceling model which is trained using a plurality of reference voice signals, perform a second noise cancellation using as input the first voice signal generated by the noise canceling model to generate a second voice signal in which residual noise is canceled from the first voice signal using statistical analysis, and generate an output voice signal comprising an encoding of the second voice signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for noise canceling, comprising: an input unit configured to receive an input voice signal; and one or more processors configured to: perform a first noise cancellation using as input the received input voice signal to generate a first voice signal by cancelling noise from the input voice signal using a noise canceling model which is trained using a plurality of reference voice signals; perform a second noise cancellation using as input the first voice signal generated by the noise canceling model to generate a second voice signal in which residual noise is canceled from the first voice signal using statistical analysis; and generate an output voice signal comprising an encoding of the second voice signal, wherein the noise canceling model is a deep neural network (DNN) trained using a first input feature vector and a first target feature vector extracted from the plurality of reference voice signals, and wherein the first input feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to a log-power spectrum (LPS), and the first target feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to an ideal ratio mask (IRM).
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input voice signal is compared with the first voice signal to determine a difference, and wherein the second noise cancellation is performed based on the determined difference.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second noise cancellation is performed only when the determined difference is above a particular threshold.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: extract a second input feature vector from the input voice signal; acquire a second target feature vector corresponding to the input voice signal and the second input feature vector through the first noise cancellation; generate a third target feature vector from the second target feature vector by setting to a reference value, target values of the second target feature vector which are less than the predetermined reference value; and generate the first voice signal from the input voice signal based on the third target feature vector.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine a speech presence probability (SPP) on the basis of the first voice signal; estimate an OMLSA (optimally modified log spectral amplitude) gain using the SPP; and generate the second voice signal from the first voice signal using the OMLSA gain.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: correct the SPP based on a difference between the first voice signal and the input voice signal; estimate a corrected OMLSA gain using the corrected SPP; and generate the second voice signal using the corrected OMLSA gain.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: calculate a ratio of a power spectrum density of the input voice signal and a power spectrum density of the difference between the first voice signal and the input voice signal; and correct the SPP based on the calculated ratio.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the deep neural network includes a plurality of hidden layers and a single output layer; the plurality of hidden layers each includes a plurality of hidden nodes utilizing a rectified linear unit (ReLU) activation function; and the output layer utilizes a sigmoid activation function.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein a loss function of the deep neural network is a mean squared error between a target feature vector estimated from the first input feature vector and the first target feature vector.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to learn the noise canceling model by using a deep learning algorithm.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a communication unit; and a memory configured to store information, wherein the noise canceling model is received from an external server via the communication unit and stored in the memory for performing the first noise cancellation.
12. A method for noise canceling, comprising: receiving an input voice signal; performing a first noise cancellation using as input the received input voice signal to generate a first voice signal by cancelling noise from the input voice signal using a noise canceling model which is trained using a plurality of reference voice signals; performing a second noise cancellation using as input the first voice signal generated by the noise canceling model to generate a second voice signal in which residual noise is canceled from the first voice signal using statistical analysis; and generating an output voice signal comprising an encoding of the second voice signal, wherein the noise canceling model is a deep neural network (DNN) trained using a first input feature vector and a first target feature vector extracted from the plurality of reference voice signals, and wherein the first input feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to a log-power spectrum (LPS), and the first target feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to an ideal ratio mask (IRM).
13. A machine-readable non-transitory medium having stored thereon machine-executable instructions for noise canceling, the instructions comprising: receiving an input voice signal; performing a first noise cancellation using as input the received input voice signal to generate a first voice signal by cancelling noise from the input voice signal using a noise canceling model which is trained using a plurality of reference voice signals; performing a second noise cancellation using as input the first voice signal generated by the noise canceling model to generate a second voice signal in which residual noise is canceled from the first voice signal using statistical analysis; and generating an output voice signal comprising an encoding of the second voice signal wherein the noise canceling model is a deep neural network (DNN) trained using a first input feature vector and a first target feature vector extracted from the plurality of reference voice signals, and wherein the first input feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to a log-power spectrum (LPS), and the first target feature vector is a feature vector corresponding to an ideal ratio mask (IRM).
</claims>
</document>
