<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06T7/11,G06T7/12,G06T7/136
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING KEYA MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, HANBO
SONG, QI
SUN, SHANHUI
YIN, YOUBING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66244084
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for image segmentation using a scalable and compact convolutional neural network
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure provide systems and methods for segmenting a medical image. An exemplary system includes a communication interface configured to receive the medical image acquired by an image acquisition device. The system further includes a memory configured to store a multi-level learning network including at least a first convolution block and a second convolution block. The second convolution block has at least one convolution layer. The system also includes a processor. The processor is configured to determine a first feature map by applying the first convolution block to the medical image, and determine a second feature map by applying the second convolution block to the first feature map. The processor is further configured to determine a first level feature map by concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map. The processor is also configured to obtain a first level segmented image based on the first level feature map.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for segmenting a medical image, comprising: a communication interface configured to receive the medical image acquired by an image acquisition device; a memory configured to store a multi-level learning network including at least a first convolution block, a second convolution block, and a third convolution block, wherein the second convolution block has at least one convolution layer; and a processor configured to: determine a first feature map by applying the first convolution block to the medical image; determine a second feature map by applying the second convolution block to the first feature map; determine a first level feature map by concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map; obtain a first level segmented image based on the first level feature map; determine a third feature map by applying the third convolution block to the second feature map; concatenate the second feature map and the third feature map to obtain a second level feature map; and obtain a second level segmented image based on the second level feature map.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the second convolution block has a plurality of convolution layers connected in parallel, each configured to determine an intermediate feature map, and wherein the processor is further configured to determine the second feature map by concatenating the intermediate feature maps.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one convolution layer includes a dilated convolution layer that enlarges a receptive field of the convolution layer.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the second convolution block further includes a max pooling layer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the first level segmented image by applying a serial convolution block to the first level feature map.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine whether a spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image; and in response to a determination that the spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image, up-sample the second feature map before concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine an improvement of the second level segmented image over the first level segmented image; and stop applying any additional convolution block in the multi-level learning network in response to a determination that the improvement is less than a threshold.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map includes combining values of the first feature map and the second feature map pixel by pixel.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map includes combining values of the first feature map and the second feature map pixel by pixel.
10. A method for segmenting a medical image, comprising: receiving, by a communication interface, the medical image acquired by an image acquisition device; retrieving a multi-level learning network including at least a first convolution block, a second convolution block, and a third convolution block, wherein the second convolution block has at least one convolution layer; determining, by a processor, a first feature map by applying the first convolution block to the medical image; determining, by the processor, a second feature map by applying the second convolution block to the first feature map; determining, by the processor, a first level feature map by concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map; obtaining, by the processor, a first level segmented image based on the first level feature map; determining, by the processor, a third feature map by applying the third convolution block to the second feature map; determining, by the processor, a second level feature map by concatenating the second feature map and the third feature map; and obtaining, by the processor, a second level segmented image based on the second level feature map.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second convolution block has a plurality of convolution layers connected in parallel, each determining an intermediate feature map, wherein determining the second feature map further comprises concatenating the intermediate feature maps.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one convolution layer includes a dilated convolution layer that enlarges a receptive field of the convolution layer.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the second convolution block further includes a max pooling layer.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein obtaining the first level segmented image includes applying a serial convolution block to the first level feature map.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining whether a spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image; and in response to a determination that the spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image, up-sampling the second feature map before concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: determining an improvement of the second level segmented image over the first level segmented image; and stopping applying any additional convolution block in the multi-level learning network in response to a determination that the improvement is less than a threshold.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having a computer program stored thereon, wherein the computer program, when executed by at least one processor, performs a method for segmenting a medical image, the method comprising: receiving the medical image acquired by an image acquisition device; retrieving a multi-level learning network including at least a first convolution block, second convolution block, and a third convolution block, the second convolution block has at least one convolution layer; determining a first feature map by applying the first convolution block to the medical image; determining a second feature map by applying the second convolution block to the first feature map; determining a first level feature map by concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map; obtaining a first level segmented image based on the first level feature map; determining a third feature map by applying the third convolution block to the second feature map; determining a second level feature map by concatenating the second feature map and the third feature map; and obtaining a second level segmented image based on the second level feature map.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the second convolution block has a plurality of convolution layers connected in parallel, each determining an intermediate feature map, wherein determining the second feature map further comprises concatenating the intermediate feature maps.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the at least one convolution layer includes a dilated convolution layer that enlarges a receptive field of the convolution layer.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the the method further comprises: determining whether a spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image; and in response to a determination that the spatial resolution of the second feature map is lower than that of the medical image, up-sampling the second feature map before concatenating the first feature map and the second feature map.
</claims>
</document>
