<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOKYO ELECTRON
</assignee>

<inventors>
POLAK, WOLFGANG
WOLFE, ORION
WATERMAN, AARON ARCHER
KAUSHAL, SANJEEV
PATEL, SUKESH JANUBHAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50682470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for autonomous tool parameter impact identification system for semiconductor manufacturing
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method autonomously determines the impact of respective tool parameters on tool performance in a semiconductor manufacturing system. A parameter impact identification system receives tool parameter and tool performance data for one or more process runs of the semiconductor fabrication system and generates a separate function for each tool parameter characterizing the behavior of a tool performance indicator in terms of a single one of the tool parameters. Each function is then scored according to how well the function predicts the actual behavior of the tool performance indicator, or based on a determined sensitivity of the tool performance indicator to changes in the single tool parameter. The tool parameters are then ranked based on these scores, and a reduced set of critical tool parameters is derived based on the ranking. The tool performance indicator can then be modeled based on this reduced set of tool parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, the memory having stored therein computer-executable instructions, comprising: a sensitivity component configured to determine respective sensitivity scores for distinct functions that characterize behavior of a tool performance indicator associated with a tool in a semiconductor fabrication system in terms of tool parameters, wherein a sensitivity score is a measure of sensitivity of the tool performance indicator to changes in values of a tool parameter associated with a function, and wherein the sensitivity component, based on identification of an upper operating limit and a lower operating limit for the tool parameter associated with the function, only employs a portion of a differential curve for the tool parameter between the upper operating limit and the lower operating limit to determine the sensitivity score for the associated function; an interface component configured to provide, to a real-time early warning system, an output that initiates the real-time early warning system to generate a preventative maintenance warning based on the output, wherein the preventative maintenance warning comprises guidance on a maintenance effort on which to focus for keeping the tool performance indicator within a desired operating limit based on a subset of the tool parameters selected based on the respective sensitivity scores.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the subset of the tool parameters is further selected based on respective quality scores for the functions, wherein a quality score indicates how closely the associated function predicts an actual value for the tool performance indicator.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface component is further configured to render the preventative maintenance warning on a display device.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a parameter separation component configured to generate the functions based on tool parameter data and tool performance data measured for one or more process runs of the semiconductor fabrication system.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a ranking component configured to generate respective composite scores for the functions, wherein a composite score for the function is based on a quality score for the function and the sensitivity score for the function.
6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a filtering component that selects a defined quantity of highest ranking tool parameters to maintain as the subset of the tool parameters based on the composite scores.
7. The system of claim 5, further comprising a filtering component that selects a defined quantity of lowest ranking tool parameters to eliminate to yield the subset of the tool parameters based on the composite scores.
8. A method, comprising: determining, by a system comprising a processor, respective sensitivity scores for distinct functions that characterize behavior a tool performance indicator associated with a tool in a semiconductor fabrication system in terms of tool parameters, wherein a sensitivity score is a measure of sensitivity of the tool performance indicator to changes in values of a tool parameter associated with a function, and wherein the sensitivity component, based on identification of an upper operating limit and a lower operating limit for the tool parameter associated with the function, only employs a portion of a differential curve for the tool parameter between the upper operating limit and the lower operating limit to determine the sensitivity score for the associated function; providing, by the system to a real-time early warning system, an output that initiates the real-time early warning system to generate a preventative maintenance warning based on the output, wherein the preventative maintenance warning comprises guidance on a maintenance effort on which to focus for keeping the tool performance indicator within a desired operating limit based on a subset of the tool parameters selected based on the respective sensitivity scores.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the subset of the tool parameters is further selected based on respective quality scores for the functions, wherein a quality score indicates how closely the associated function predicts an actual value for the tool performance indicator.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising rendering, by the system, the preventative maintenance warning on a display device.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating, by the system, the functions based on tool parameter data and tool performance data measured for one or more process runs of the semiconductor fabrication system.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating, by the system, respective composite scores for the functions, wherein a composite score for the function is based on a quality score for the function and the sensitivity score for the function.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting, by the system, a defined quantity of highest ranking tool parameters to maintain as the subset of the tool parameters based on the composite scores.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising selecting, by the system, a defined quantity of lowest ranking tool parameters to eliminate to yield the subset of the tool parameters based on the composite scores.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, in response to execution, cause a system including a processor to perform operations comprising: determining respective sensitivity scores for distinct functions that characterize behavior a tool performance indicator associated with a tool in a semiconductor fabrication system in terms of tool parameters, wherein a sensitivity score is a measure of sensitivity of the tool performance indicator to changes in values of a tool parameter associated with a function, and wherein the sensitivity component, based on identification of an upper operating limit and a lower operating limit for the tool parameter associated with the function, only employs a portion of a differential curve for the tool parameter between the upper operating limit and the lower operating limit to determine the sensitivity score for the associated function; providing, to a real-time early warning system, an output that initiates the real-time early warning system to generate a preventative maintenance warning based on the output, wherein the preventative maintenance warning comprises guidance on a maintenance effort on which to focus for keeping the tool performance indicator within a desired operating limit based on a subset of the tool parameters selected based on the respective sensitivity scores.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the subset of the tool parameters is further selected based on respective quality scores for the functions, wherein a quality score indicates how closely the associated function predicts an actual value for the tool performance indicator.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising rendering the preventative maintenance warning on a display device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising generating the functions based on tool parameter data and tool performance data measured for one or more process runs of the semiconductor fabrication system.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising generating respective composite scores for the functions, wherein a composite score for the function is based on a quality score for the function and the sensitivity score for the function.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further comprising selecting a defined quantity of highest ranking tool parameters to maintain as the subset of the tool parameters based on the composite scores.
</claims>
</document>
