<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/16,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04R29/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NANAVATI, AMIT, ANIL
AGRAWAL, PRIYANKA
SAHA, AMRITA
DAYAMA, PANKAJ S.
TAMILSELVAM, SRIKANTH GOVINDARAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68237857
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Filtering sound based on desirability
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method, including: creating, for a user, a sound desirability index comprising (i) a plurality of sounds and (ii) desirability of the sound to the user with respect to each of the plurality of sounds, wherein the sound desirability index is created in response to the user hearing a sound and the environment of the user when hearing the sound; receiving an audible input within hearing proximity of the user; identifying the current environment of the user; determining the desirability of the audible input to the user by accessing the sound desirability index, and determining the desirability of the audible input based upon a sound in the audible input and the current environment of the user; and modifying a characteristic of at least a portion of the audible input based upon the desirability of the audible input to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: creating, for a user, a sound desirability index unique to the user, wherein the sound desirability index comprises (i) a plurality of sounds and (ii) desirability of the sound to the user with respect to each of the plurality of sounds, wherein the sound desirability index is automatically populated (a) with a desirability of sounds based upon a response by the user to the user hearing a given sound and (b) correlated to an environment of the user when hearing the given sound, wherein a desirability of the given sound is based upon an environment the given sound is heard within and wherein the desirability of the given sound changes within different environments, wherein the response by the user comprises a physical reaction of the user upon hearing the given sound and wherein at least a portion of the physical reaction of the user is captured using at least one of: an image capture device, an audio capture device, and a biometric sensor; receiving an audible input within hearing proximity of the user; identifying the current environment of the user; determining the desirability of the audible input to the user by accessing the sound desirability index, and determining the desirability of the audible input based upon a sound in the audible input and the current environment of the user; and modifying a characteristic of at least a portion of the audible input based upon the desirability of the audible input to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises using a supervised learning technique to classify desirability of each sound in view of a response by the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical reaction of the user comprises a physical reaction selected from the group consisting of: an audible response, a gesture response, a facial response, and a health metric response.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises receiving user input setting a desirability level of at least one sound.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises updating a default sound desirability index.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a desirability of the sound to the user is different for different environments of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining a desirability of the audible input comprises determining an importance score for a sound within the audible input.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying a characteristic comprises filtering the audible input.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying a characteristic comprises filtering a sound within the audible input that is determined to be undesirable, and not filtering a second sound within the audile input that is determined to be other than undesirable.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying a characteristic comprises increasing the volume of a sound within the audible input that is determined to be desirable.
11. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith and executable by the at least one processor, the computer readable program code comprising: computer readable program code configured to create, for a user, a sound desirability index unique to the user, wherein the sound desirability index comprises (i) a plurality of sounds and (ii) desirability of the sound to the user with respect to each of the plurality of sounds, wherein the sound desirability index is automatically populated (a) with a desirability of sounds based upon a response by the user to the user hearing a given sound and (b) correlated to an environment of the user when hearing the given sound, wherein a desirability of the given sound is based upon an environment the given sound is heard within and wherein the desirability of the given sound changes within different environments, wherein the response by the user comprises a physical reaction of the user upon hearing the given sound and wherein at least a portion of the physical reaction of the user is captured using at least one of: an image capture device, an audio capture device, and a biometric sensor; computer readable program code configured to receive an audible input within hearing proximity of the user; computer readable program code configured to identify the current environment of the user; computer readable program code configured to determine the desirability of the audible input to the user by accessing the sound desirability index, and determining the desirability of the audible input based upon a sound in the audible input and the current environment of the user; and computer readable program code configured to modify a characteristic of at least a portion of the audible input based upon the desirability of the audible input to the user.
12. A computer program product, comprising: a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, the computer readable program code executable by a processor and comprising: computer readable program code configured to create, for a user, a sound desirability index unique to the user, wherein the sound desirability index comprises (i) a plurality of sounds and (ii) desirability of the sound to the user with respect to each of the plurality of sounds, wherein the sound desirability index is automatically populated (a) with a desirability of sounds based upon a response by the user to the user hearing a given sound and (b) correlated to an environment of the user when hearing the given sound, wherein a desirability of the given sound is based upon an environment the given sound is heard within and wherein the desirability of the given sound changes within different environments, wherein the response by the user comprises a physical reaction of the user upon hearing the given sound and wherein at least a portion of the physical reaction of the user is captured using at least one of: an image capture device, an audio capture device, and a biometric sensor; computer readable program code configured to receive an audible input within hearing proximity of the user; computer readable program code configured to identify the current environment of the user; computer readable program code configured to determine the desirability of the audible input to the user by accessing the sound desirability index, and determining the desirability of the audible input based upon a sound in the audible input and the current environment of the user; and computer readable program code configured to modify a characteristic of at least a portion of the audible input based upon the desirability of the audible input to the user.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises using a supervised learning technique to classify desirability of each sound in view of a response by the user.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the physical reaction of the user comprises a physical reaction selected from the group consisting of: an audible response, a gesture response, a facial response, and a health metric response.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises receiving user input setting a desirability level of at least one sound.
16. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the creating a sound desirability index comprises updating a default sound desirability index.
17. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the determining a desirability of the audible input comprises determining an importance score for a sound within the audible input.
18. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the modifying a characteristic comprises filtering a sound within the audible input that is determined to be undesirable, and not filtering a second sound within the audile input that is determined to be other than undesirable.
19. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the modifying a characteristic comprises increasing the volume of a sound within the audible input that is determined to be desirable.
20. A method, comprising: generating a sound desirability profile for a specific user, wherein the sound desirability profile comprises a sound profile for the specific user indicating the desirability of particular sounds to the user, for each of the particular sounds, wherein the generating a sound desirability profile is automatically populated (i) with a desirability of a given sound is based upon a physical reaction of the user to hearing the given sound and (ii) correlated to a context of the user when hearing the given sound, and wherein the desirability of the given sound changes within different contexts; the generating a sound desirability profile comprising: identifying a physical reaction of the user to hearing a sound and wherein at least a portion of the physical reaction is captured using at least one of: an image capture device, an audio capture device, and an biometric sensor; determining a context of the user when hearing the sound, wherein a desirability of the sound is based upon the context of the user and wherein a desirability of the sound change within different contexts; and classifying a desirability of the sound to the user based upon the identified physical reaction of the user to the sound and the context of the user; receiving audible input comprising at least one sound; and adjusting an audibility level of the sound based upon a desirability of the sound in the audible input to the user determined by comparing the received audible input to the sound desirability profile.
</claims>
</document>
