<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06,H04N21/478,H04N21/4782,H04N21/81,H04N21/858
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Wu, Meng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated generation of video-based electronic solicitations
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for generating a trackable video-based product. One method comprises receiving a video comprising a plurality of frames from a video database; receiving product information associated with at least one product for sale from a product database; and receiving annotation data linking the received product information to at least one of the plurality of frames from a metadata database. The method may further comprise modifying a database to include a link between the at least one of the plurality of frames and the product information and generating an augmented video using the annotation data and the received video. The method may further comprise delivering the augmented video to a client device, such as a user device of a consumer, and responsive thereto receiving a communication related to the delivered video, the communication comprising data relating to an interaction with the video; comparing the data relating to the interaction with the link in the database to determine an associated product; and delivering information associated with the determined associated product to the client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for trackable video-based product solicitation, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform steps comprising: receiving a video comprising a plurality of frames; receiving product information associated with at least one product for sale, wherein the product information comprises at least one image; receiving annotation data linking the received product information to at least one of the plurality of frames; modifying a database to include a link between the at least one of the plurality of frames and the product information, wherein the product information comprises at least one vendor identifier that is associated with a vendor of the at least one product for sale; generating an augmented video using the annotation data, the received video, a database of animated assets, the product information, and a video script, wherein generating the augmented video further comprises: superimposing the at least one image on an asset from the database of animated assets to produce a combined asset; generating the video using the combined asset; for a plurality of the frames of the generated video, associating coordinates of the combined asset with the annotation data; and including in the database, in association with the product information, the coordinates associated with the combined asset; delivering the augmented video to a client device, and responsive thereto: receiving a communication related to the delivered video, the communication comprising data relating to an interaction with the video; comparing the data relating to the interaction with the link in the database to determine an associated product; and delivering information associated with the determined associated product to the client device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the database of animated assets comprises at least one of animations, computer-generated image models, or character models.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the annotation data is associated with a product for sale, and comprises at least one of: frame data; coordinates; or a model appearing in the video.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the steps further comprise: receiving, as annotation data, information associated with the model appearing in the video; associating, in the database, product information for a plurality of products with the model.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the steps further comprise: determining a customer identifier associated with the interaction; determining whether the interaction resulted in a purchase; storing the purchase determination in a database in association with the customer identifier.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the augmented video comprises an association between the product information, the annotation data, and a link to a web page for accessing additional product information.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the augmented video is hashed such that it may be uniquely identified for authenticity.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the interaction comprises one of a click, a tap, a drag, or a mouse-over.
9. A method for generating a trackable video-based product, comprising: receiving a video comprising a plurality of frames; receiving product information associated with at least one product for sale, wherein the product information comprises at least one image; receiving annotation data linking the received product information to at least one of the plurality of frames; modifying a database to include a link between the at least one of the plurality of frames and the product information, wherein the product information comprises at least one vendor identifier that is associated with a vendor of the at least one product for sale; generating an augmented video using the annotation data, the received video, a database of animated assets, the product information, and a video script, wherein generating the augmented video further comprises: superimposing the at least one image on an asset from the database of animated assets to produce a combined asset; generating the video using the combined asset; for a plurality of the frames of the generated video, associating coordinates of the combined asset with the annotation data; and including in the database, in association with the product information, the coordinates associated with the combined asset; delivering the augmented video to a client device, and responsive thereto: receiving a communication related to the delivered video, the communication comprising data relating to an interaction with the video; comparing the data relating to the interaction with the link in the database to determine an associated product; and delivering information associated with the determined associated product to the client device.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the database of animated assets comprises at least one of animations, computer-generated image models, or character models.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the annotation data is associated with a product for sale, and comprises at least one of: frame data; coordinates; or a model appearing in the video.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, as annotation data, information associated with the model appearing in the video; associating, in the database, product information for a plurality of products with the model.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining a customer identifier associated with the interaction; determining whether the interaction resulted in a purchase; storing the purchase determination in a database in association with the customer identifier.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the augmented video comprises an association between the product information, the annotation data, and a link to a web page for accessing additional product information.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the interaction comprises one of a click, a tap, a drag, or a mouse-over.
16. A system for trackable video-based product solicitation, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform steps comprising: receiving a video comprising a plurality of frames; receiving product information associated with at least one product for sale, wherein the product information comprises at least one image; receiving annotation data linking the received product information to at least one of the plurality of frames; modifying a database to include a link between the at least one of the plurality of frames and the product information, wherein the product information comprises at least one vendor identifier that is associated with a vendor of the at least one product for sale; embedding links configured to detect interactions in each frame, wherein the embedded links are configured to analyze a timespan of each interaction; generating an augmented video using the annotation data, the received video, a database of animated assets, the product information, and a video script, wherein generating the augmented video further comprises: superimposing the at least one image on an asset from the database of animated assets to produce a combined asset; generating the video using the combined asset; for a plurality of the frames of the generated video, associating coordinates of the combined asset with the annotation data; and including in the database, in association with the product information, the coordinates associated with the combined asset; delivering the augmented video to a client device, and responsive thereto: receiving a communication related to the delivered video, the communication comprising data relating to the interactions with the video; comparing the data relating to the interaction with the link in the database to determine an associated product; and delivering information associated with the determined associated product to the client device.
</claims>
</document>
