<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DURAN, JAMES C.
SCHULER, FRANCESCA
BONNEY, ALLEN F.
BLACKSHEAR, CHRISTOPHER E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71993807
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device, system and method for duplicate call handling at a public-safety answering point device
</title>

<abstract>
A device, system and method for duplicate call handling at a public-safety answering point (PSAP) device is provided. The PSAP device: routes a call from a caller to a call-taker, the call associated with an incident; receives, via an input device of the call-taker, information related to the incident to populate a record associated with the call; prior to the record being complete, receives, via the input device, input to handover the call to an information collection application, the input indicative of the call being a duplicate call; determines, via the information collection application, remaining information to be collected based on one or more of: a duplicate call policy and the information already received; receives, via the information collection application to verbally communicating with the caller on the call, at least a portion of the remaining information to continue to populate the record; and ends the call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: routing, via a public-safety answering point (PSAP) device, a call to a communication device of a call-taker, the call associated with an incident, the call being from a caller; receiving, via an input device associated with the call-taker, information related to the incident to populate a record associated with the call; prior to the record being complete, receiving, via the input device, input to handover the call to an information collection application implemented by the PSAP device, the input indicative of the call being a duplicate call; determining, via the PSAP device implementing the information collection application, remaining information to be collected based on one or more of: a duplicate call policy and the information already received; receiving, via the PSAP device implementing the information collection application to verbally communicate with the caller on the call, at least a portion of the remaining information to continue to populate the record; and ending, via the PSAP device, the call.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein ending, via the PSAP device, the call comprises: ending the call when the record is complete.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, via the PSAP device, that given information, of the remaining information received by the information collection application, comprises critical information; and transferring, via the PSAP device, the call back to the communication device of the call-taker.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, via the PSAP device, that the call is the duplicate call; and controlling, via the PSAP device, a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an indication of the call being the duplicate call.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling a display screen associated with the call-taker to indicate that the information collection application is active or one or more of: inactive, and available to activate.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an actuatable option to activate or inactivate the information collection application, wherein the receiving the input to handover the call to the information collection application comprises receiving the input via the actuatable option.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide a list of items of the remaining information to be received.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: while the information collection application is receiving items of the remaining information, controlling a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an indication of the items received.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the duplicate call policy is indicative of the remaining information to be collected when the call is the duplicate call.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the remaining information based on the information already received based, at least in part, on natural language processing.
11. A computing device comprising: a communication unit; and a controller configured to: route, via the communication unit, a call to a communication device of a call-taker, the call associated with an incident, the call being from a caller; receive, via an input device associated with the call-taker, information related to the incident to populate a record associated with the call; prior to the record being complete, receive, via the input device, input to handover the call to an information collection application, the input indicative of the call being a duplicate call; determine, via the information collection application, remaining information to be collected based on one or more of: a duplicate call policy and the information already received; receive, via the information collection application verbally communicating with the caller on the call, at least a portion of the remaining information to continue to populate the record; and end the call.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to end the call by: ending the call when the record is complete.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine that given information, of the remaining information received by the information collection application, comprises critical information; and transfer the call back to the communication device of the call-taker.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine that the call is the duplicate call; and control a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an indication of the call being the duplicate call.
15. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: control a display screen associated with the call-taker to indicate that the information collection application is active or one or more of: inactive, and available to activate.
16. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: control a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an actuatable option to activate or inactivate the information collection application, wherein the controller is further configured to receive the input to handover the call to the information collection application by: receiving the input via the actuatable option.
17. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: control a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide a list of items of the remaining information to be received.
18. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: while the information collection application is receiving items of the remaining information, control a display screen associated with the call-taker to provide an indication of the items received.
19. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the duplicate call policy is indicative of the remaining information to be collected when the call is the duplicate call.
20. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine the remaining information based on the information already received based, at least in part, on natural language processing.
</claims>
</document>
