<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/21,A63F13/24,G01S13/56,G01S13/66,G01S13/86,G01S13/88,G01S13/90,G01S13/931,G01S19/42,G01S7/41,G06F1/16,G06F16/245,G06F21/32,G06F21/62,G06F3/01,G06F3/0346,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/16,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/73,G08C17/02,H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHWESIG, CARSTEN C.
POUPYREV, IVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58446760
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gesture component with gesture library
</title>

<abstract>
A gesture component with a gesture library is described. The gesture component is configured to expose operations for execution by application of a computing device based on detected gestures. In one example, an input is detected using a three dimensional object detection system of a gesture component of the computing device. A gesture is recognized by the gesture component based on the detected input through comparison with a library of gestures maintained by the gesture component. An operation is then recognized that corresponds to the gesture by the gesture component using the library of gestures. The operation is exposed by the gesture component via an application programming interface to at least one application executed by the computing device to control performance of the operation by the at least one application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling operation of a computing device by radar-based gesture detection, the method comprising: receiving, by the computing device, raw data representing radar signals that have been reflected off an object; transforming, by the computing device, the raw data of the radar signals into one or more different representations that represent information about the object, the transforming comprising at least one of: an I/Q transformation that yields a complex vector containing phase and amplitude information about the object, a beamforming transformation that yields spatial information about the object, a range-Doppler transformation that yields range rate and distance information about the object, a range profile transformation that yields recognition information about the object, a micro-Doppler transformation that yields high-resolution recognition information about the object, or a spectrogram transformation that yields a spectrogram of corresponding frequencies of the raw data of the radar signals; extracting, by the computing device, feature information about the object from the one or more different representations that represent information about the object; recognizing, by the computing device, a gesture performed by the object, the recognizing based on a comparison of the extracted feature information about the object with a library of gestures maintained by the computing device; recognizing, by the computing device, an operation that corresponds to the gesture using the library of gestures; and exposing, by the computing device, an indication of the operation for receipt by at least one application executed by the computing device or a remote device to cause the at least one application to control performance of the operation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the radar signals comprise radio signals.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the radar signals correspond to a 60 GHz band.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one application is not made aware as to how the operation is detected by the computing device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the library of gestures includes media gestures usable by the at least one application to control rendering of media.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the library of gestures includes user interface navigation gestures usable by the at least one application to control navigation within a user interface.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more different representations represent a classification of the object such as a hand, a finger, or a head; and the extracting the feature information about the object comprises looking for feature information specific to the classification of the object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the beamforming transformation.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the range-Doppler transformation.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the range profile transformation.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the micro-Doppler transformation.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the spectrogram transformation.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the spectrogram transformation, the range-Doppler transformation, and the beamforming transformation.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the transforming further comprises the range profile transformation and the micro-Doppler transformation.
15. A computing device comprising: a processing system; an application maintained in computer-readable storage media and executable by the processing system to perform a plurality of operations; and a gesture component implemented at least partially in hardware, the gesture component configured to: receive raw data representing radar signals that have been reflected by an object; transform the raw data of the radar signals into a different representation that represents information about the object, the transform comprising at least one of: an I/Q transformation that yields a complex vector containing phase and amplitude information about the object, a beamforming transformation that yields spatial information about the object, a range-Doppler transformation that yields range rate and distance information about the object, a range profile transformation that yields recognition information about the object, a micro-Doppler transformation that yields high-resolution recognition information about the object, or a spectrogram transformation that yields a spectrogram of corresponding frequencies of the raw data of the radar signals; extract feature information about the object from the different representation that represents information about the object; maintain a library of gestures corresponding to the operations; compare the feature information about the object from the transformed raw data of the radar signals with the library of gestures; recognize a gesture performed by the object and a corresponding operation based on the comparison; and expose an indication of the corresponding operation that corresponds to the recognized gesture for receipt by the application to cause the application to control performance of the corresponding operation.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the radar signals comprise radio waves.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein the radio waves correspond to a 60 GHz band.
18. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the application is not made aware as to how the corresponding operation is detected by the gesture component.
19. The computing device of claim 15, wherein: the operations comprise media control operations; and the library of gestures includes media gestures corresponding to the media control operations.
20. The computing device of claim 15, wherein: the operations comprise user interface navigation control operations; and the library of gestures includes user interface navigation gestures corresponding to the user interface navigation control operations.
21. The computing device of claim 15, wherein: the different representation represents a classification of the object such as a hand, a finger, or a head; and the extracting the feature information about the object comprises looking for feature information specific to the classification of the object.
22. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the I/Q transformation.
23. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the beamforming transformation.
24. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the range-Doppler transformation.
25. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the range profile transformation.
26. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the micro-Doppler transformation.
27. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the spectrogram transformation.
28. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the spectrogram transformation, the range-Doppler transformation, and the beamforming transformation.
29. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the transform further comprises the range profile transformation and the micro-Doppler transformation.
30. A method performed by a computing device of exposing an operation for an application from radar-based gesture detection, the method comprising: transmitting, by the computing device, a plurality of outgoing radio frequency radar signals; capturing, by the computing device, incoming radio frequency radar signals generated by the outgoing radio frequency radar signals reflecting off a user; exposing, by the computing device, the operation to the application based on the captured incoming radio frequency radar signals, the operation exposed by: transforming raw data corresponding to the captured incoming radio frequency radar signals into a different representation that represents information about a portion of the user, the transforming comprising at least one of: an I/Q transformation that yields a complex vector containing phase and amplitude information about the object, a beamforming transformation that yields spatial information about the object, a range-Doppler transformation that yields range rate and distance information about the object, a range profile transformation that yields recognition information about the object, a micro-Doppler transformation that yields high-resolution recognition information about the object, or a spectrogram transformation that yields a spectrogram of corresponding frequencies of the raw data of the radar signals; extracting feature information about the portion of the user based on the different representation that represents information about the portion of the user; comparing the feature information about the portion of the user with a library of gestures maintained by the computing device; recognizing a gesture performed by the portion of the user and the operation based on the comparison, the operation corresponding to the recognized gesture; and exposing the operation that corresponds to the recognized gesture to the application such that the application can control performance of the operation.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the outgoing radio frequency radar signals correspond to a 60 GHz band.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein the operation comprises a media-related operation or a navigation operation.
33. The method of claim 30, wherein: the portion of the user comprises a body part of the user such as a hand, a finger, or a head; and the extracting the feature information comprises searching for feature information specific to the body part of the user.
</claims>
</document>
