<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R31/00,G01R31/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MITCHELL TIMOTHY M.
KARIMI, KAMIAR J.
KUMAR, ANIL
MATHESON, EVELYN M.
SOLODOVNIK, EUGENE V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66097413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Airplane power monitoring system
</title>

<abstract>
A method for managing power in an airplane. Power quality data and load management data are collected from airplane systems in the airplane at a variable sampling rate using data collectors assigned to the airplane systems in which the variable sampling rate increases in response to a selected trigger event. The power quality data and the load management data are received by a power monitor from the data collectors during phases of flight for the airplane. A group of load management operations for the airplane systems are performed by a load manager in the airplane during operation of the airplane. The group of load management operations is performed using the power quality data and the load management data received from the data collectors during the phases of flight for the airplane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An airplane electrical power monitoring system that comprises: a computer system in an airplane; data collectors, assigned to line replaceable units for systems that use electrical power in the airplane, and configured to collect power quality data and load management data from the line replaceable units at a variable sampling rate that increases in response to a selected trigger event, such that the selected trigger event comprises a selection from a group that comprises: a phase of flight, a maneuver, an abnormal condition in a line replaceable unit of the line replaceable units, a current demand exceeding a threshold for the current demand, an airplane event, a voltage magnitude exceeding a threshold for the voltage magnitude, a ripple voltage magnitude exceeding a threshold for the ripple voltage magnitude, a total harmonic distortion exceeding a threshold for the total harmonic distortion, a power interrupt, a power transfer, a selected pilot action, or an action affecting a power quality or a load management on the airplane; and a power monitor in the computer system, configured to receive the power quality data and the load management data from the data collectors during phases of flight for the airplane.
2. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising: a power quality and load management database configured to store the power quality data and the load management data for a group of airplanes, wherein the power monitor sends the power quality data and the load management data for the airplane to the power quality and load management database; and an analyzer configured to identify needed maintenance using the power quality and load management database.
3. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the analyzer is located in at least one of the computer system in the airplane or a remote computer system in a ground location.
4. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 2, wherein in identifying the needed maintenance using the power quality and load management database, the analyzer predicts a degradation in an operation of an airplane system in the group of airplanes using the power quality data and the load management data for the group of airplanes in the power quality and load management database; and identifies the needed maintenance for the airplane system prior to decay reaching an undesired level.
5. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1 further comprising: a ground power unit connected to the airplane by a power line, wherein the power monitor sends the power quality data and the load management data to a database remote to the airplane over the power line using broadband over power line communications.
6. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 5, wherein the power monitor receives at least one of ground power quality data or ground load management data for a ground power unit.
7. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 6 further comprising: an analyzer configured to identify variations in ideal power quality from at least one of: a ground power units or an electrical power generator in the airplane that cause unscheduled maintenance for a group of airplanes.
8. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the data collectors or the power monitor changes the variable sampling rate.
9. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the variable sampling rate returns to a default sampling rate after at least one of a period of time or another trigger event.
10. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the data collectors are selected from at least one of a software application or a hardware unit.
11. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the power quality data includes at least one of: a power, a reactive power, a power factor, a voltage harmonics, the total harmonic distortion, an amplitude voltage modulation, a frequency voltage modulation, a voltage ripple amplitude, a current ripple amplitude, a current ripple frequency, ora voltage ripple frequency.
12. The airplane electrical power monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the load management data includes at least one of: a ripple current amplitude, a ripple current frequency, or a load power factor.
13. A method for managing electrical power in an airplane, the method comprising: collecting power quality data and load management data from line replaceable units in systems in the airplane at a variable sampling rate using data collectors assigned to the line replaceable units; increasing, responsive to a selected trigger event, the variable sampling rate, the selected trigger event comprising a selection from a group comprising: a phase of flight, a maneuver, an abnormal condition in a line replaceable unit in the line replaceable units, a current demand exceeding a threshold for the current demand, an airplane event, a voltage magnitude exceeding a threshold for the voltage magnitude, a ripple voltage magnitude exceeding a threshold for the ripple voltage magnitude, a total harmonic distortion exceeding a threshold for the total harmonic distortion, a power interrupt, a power transfer, a selected pilot action, or an action affecting a power quality or a load management on the airplane; receiving, by a power monitor, the power quality data and the load management data from the data collectors during phases of flight for the airplane; and performing, by a load manager in the airplane, a group of load management operations for the systems during operation of the airplane, wherein the group of load management operations is performed using the power quality data and the load management data received from the data collectors during the phases of flight for the airplane.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: sending the power quality data and the load management data for the airplane to a power quality and load management database; storing the power quality data and the load management data for a group of airplanes in the power quality and load management database; and identifying needed maintenance using the power quality and load management database.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein an identifying step is performed by an analyzer located in at least one of a computer system in the airplane or a remote computer system in a ground location.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the needed maintenance using the power quality and load management database comprises: predicting, by an analyzer, a degradation in the operation of an airplane system in the group of airplanes using the power quality data and the load management data for the group of airplanes; identifying the needed maintenance for the airplane system prior to the_degradation reaching an undesired level; and scheduling the needed maintenance for the airplane.
17. The method of claim 13 further comprising: sending the power quality data and the load management data to a power quality and load management database remote to the airplane using broadband over power line communications.
18. The method of claim 13 further comprising: receiving at least one of ground power quality data and ground load management data for a ground power unit connected to the airplane.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising: identifying variations in ideal power quality from ground power units that cause unscheduled maintenance in a group of airplanes.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one of the data collectors or the power monitor in the airplane changes the variable sampling rate.
</claims>
</document>
