<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/48,G06F19/00,G06F19/18,G06F19/28,G06G7/58,G16B20/00,G16B50/00,G16H20/00,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PSOMAGEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALMONACID, DANIEL
APTE, ZACHARY
RICHMAN, JESSICA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56850611
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for microbiome-derived diagnostics and therapeutics for locomotor system conditions
</title>

<abstract>
A method for at least one of characterizing, diagnosing, and treating a locomotor system condition in at least a subject, the method comprising: receiving an aggregate set of biological samples from a population of subjects; generating at least one of a microbiome composition dataset and a microbiome functional diversity dataset for the population of subjects; generating a characterization of the locomotor system condition based upon features extracted from at least one of the microbiome composition dataset and the microbiome functional diversity dataset; based upon the characterization, generating a therapy model configured to correct the locomotor system condition; and at an output device associated with the subject, promoting a therapy to the subject based upon the characterization and the therapy model.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for at least one of characterizing, diagnosing, and treating a locomotor condition in a subject, the method comprising: receiving an aggregate set of samples from a population of subjects comprising at least one sample associated with the locomotor condition; for each sample of the aggregate set of samples: determining a microorganism sequence, comprising: selecting a primer for a nucleic acid sequence and amplifying nucleic acid material from the sample using the selected primer; and determining an alignment of the microorganism sequence to a reference sequence; generating a microbiome feature dataset, including diversity features, for the population of subjects based upon the alignments; generating a characterization of the locomotor condition from features extracted from the microbiome feature dataset and a supplementary dataset informative of characteristics associated with the locomotor condition; based upon the characterization, generating a therapy model that determines a therapy for correcting the locomotor condition; and providing the therapy to the subject with the locomotor condition based upon the characterization and the therapy model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the microbiome feature dataset comprises at least one of microbiome composition features and microbiome functional features.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the supplementary dataset, upon processing health and behavioral data from at least a subset of the population of subjects.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein transforming the microbiome feature dataset comprises generating a characterization model based on a set of features extracted from the microbiome feature dataset, wherein the set of features is associated with at least one of: presence and absence of microbiome features, relative abundance of different taxonomic groups represented in the microbiome feature dataset, ratio between at least two features associated with the different taxonomic groups and functional diversity, interactions between the different taxonomic groups, and phylogenetic distance between the different taxonomic groups.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the characterization comprises analyzing the set of features with a statistical analysis, including prediction analysis comprising: multi hypothesis testing, random forest test, principal component analysis and any other suitable test.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the characterization comprises performing a statistical analysis to assess features of the microbiome feature dataset having varying degrees of abundance in a first subset of the population of subjects exhibiting the locomotor condition and a second subset of the population of subjects not exhibiting the locomotor condition.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the characterization comprises: extracting candidate features associated with a set of functional aspects of microbiome components of the microbiome feature dataset; and characterizing the locomotor condition in association with a subset of the set of functional aspects.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the characterization of the locomotor condition comprises generating a diagnostic of at least one of an arthritic disorder and a neuromusculoskeletal disorder.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the therapy comprises providing a consumable to the subject, the consumable affecting a microorganism component that selectively modulates microbiome function of at least one taxon associated with correction of the locomotor condition, based on the therapy model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the therapy comprises providing a joint extracellular matrix rejuvenating therapy to the subject.
11. A method for at least one of characterizing, diagnosing, and treating a locomotor condition in a subject, the method comprising: receiving a sample from the subject associated with the locomotor condition; determining a microorganism sequence from the sample, comprising: selecting a primer for a nucleic acid sequences and amplifying nucleic acid material from the sample using the selected primer; determining an alignment of the microorganism sequence to a reference sequence; extracting a microbiome feature dataset, including diversity features, based upon the alignment; generating a characterization of the subject upon processing the microbiome feature dataset with a characterization model derived from a population of subjects having the locomotor condition; processing the characterization with a therapy model that determines a therapy for correcting the locomotor condition; and providing the therapy to the subject with the locomotor condition based upon the characterization and the therapy model.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the characterization of the subject comprises performing a diagnostic test of at least one of gout, reactive arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein performing the diagnostic test of gout comprises performing a characterization operation with the microbiome feature dataset of the subject and features derived from a set of taxa comprising: Defluviitalea (genus), Defluviitaleaceae (family), Eubacterium hallii (species), Coprococcus (genus), Parabacteroides distasonis (species), Erysipelotrichaceae (family), Erysipelotrichia (class), Streptococcus thermophilus (species), Christensenellaceae (family), and Actinobacteria (phylum).
14. The method of claim 13, wherein performing the set of taxa further comprises: Verrucomicrobia (phylum), Tenericutes (phylum), Streptococcaceae (family), Eggerthella (genus), Streptococcus (genus), Actinobacteridae (subclass), Clostridiales incertae sedis (family), Clostridiales Family XI. Incertae Sedis (no rank), Lentisphaerae (phylum), Lentisphaeria (class), Oribacterium (genus), Actinomycetaceae (family), Actinomycineae (suborder), and Actinomycetales (order).
15. The method of claim 12, wherein performing the diagnostic test of reactive arthritis comprises performing a characterization operation with the microbiome feature dataset of the subject and features derived from a set of taxa including: Alistipes onderdonkii (species), Alistipes (genus), Rikenellaceae (family), Adlercreutzia (genus), Adlercreutzia equolifaciens (species), and Dorea (genus).
16. The method of claim 12, wherein performing the diagnostic test of rheumatoid arthritis comprises performing a characterization operation with the microbiome feature dataset of the subject and features derived from a set of taxa including: Bacteroides uniformis (species) and Alistipes onderdonkii (species).
17. The method of claim 12, wherein performing the diagnostic test of multiple sclerosis comprises performing a characterization operation with the microbiome feature dataset of the subject and further features derived from a set of taxa comprising at least one of: Verrucomicrobiae (class), Verrucomicrobiales (order), Anaerostipes (genus), Lachnospiraceae (family), Cyanobacteria (phylum), Peptococcus (genus), Coprococcus comes (species), Clostridiales bacterium A2-162 (species), Prevotellaceae (family), Prevotella (genus), butyrate-producing bacterium L1-93 (species), Actinobacillus porcinus (species), Actinobacillus (genus), Pasteurellaceae (family), Pasteurellales (order), and Actinomycetales (order).
18. The method of claim 12, wherein performing the diagnostic test of Parkinson's Disease comprises performing a characterization operation with the microbiome feature dataset of the subject and features derived from a set of taxa including at least one of: Subdoligranulum sp. 4_3_54A2FAA (species), Faecalibacterium (genus), Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (species), Enterobacteriales (order), Enterobacteriaceae (family), Cyanobacteria (phylum), Anaerostipes (genus), environmental samples (no rank), Peptostreptococcaceae (family), Anaerostipes hadrus (species), Bifidobacteriaceae (family), Bifidobacteriales (order), and Lactobacillaceae (family).
19. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the characterization comprises analyzing a set of features from the microbiome feature dataset with a statistical analysis, wherein the set of features includes features associated with: relative abundance of different taxonomic groups represented in the microbiome feature dataset, interactions between the different taxonomic groups represented in the microbiome feature dataset, and phylogenetic distance between taxonomic groups represented in the microbiome feature dataset.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the therapy comprises providing a consumable to the subject, the consumable affecting a microorganism component that selectively microbiome function in the subject for correction of the locomotor condition, based on the therapy model.
21. The method of claim 11, wherein the therapy modulates microbiome composition of the subject towards an equilibrium state.
22. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the therapy comprises providing a physical rehabilitation regimen to the subject.
</claims>
</document>
