<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/0426,H04B7/0456,H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOFIGHBAKHSH, MOSTAFA
SHARMA, DEVA-DATTA
JANA, RITTWIK
JANA, SHRABONI
UNGUREANU, BOGDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXT-BASED PRECODING MATRIX COMPUTATIONS FOR RADIO ACCESS NETWORK FOR 5G OR OTHER NEXT GENERATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Precoding matrix computations for a large number of antenna arrays can be used to generate efficiencies within a wireless network. Utilizing network topology and context data in conjunction with known available network resources and mobile device measurements can facilitate gains in power and spectral efficiency and reduction in computation complexity posed by current procedures. To take advantage of multiple paths, the precoding matrix can be known at the radio units for each mobile device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a wireless network device comprising a processor, model data representative of a precoding prediction model associated with a user equipment device of a wireless network; based on the precoding prediction model, generating, by the wireless network device, recommendation data representative of a precoding matrix to be sent to a distributed unit device of the wireless network; in response to the generating of the recommendation data, sending, by the wireless network device, the recommendation data to the distributed unit device; in response to the sending of the recommendation data, receiving, by the wireless network device, performance data associated with a performance of the user equipment device; performing multiple-input multiple-output precoding determinations associated with neighboring remote unit devices to reduce intracellular interference between user equipment devices of the wireless network; and based on a result of the performing the multiple-input multiple-output precoding determinations, combining multiple-input multiple-output channels currently configured for use by the user equipment devices to reduce a number of the multiple-input multiple-output channels, resulting in a reduced number of multiple-input multiple-output channels.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the wireless network device, resource data representative of available resources of the wireless network.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: in response to the receiving the resource data, modifying, by the wireless network device, the precoding matrix.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the precoding prediction model is based on historical data associated with usage of the user equipment device.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving, by the wireless network device from the user equipment device, channel state information associated with a frequency division duplex.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance data comprises spectrum data associated with a spectrum of the wireless network utilized by the user equipment device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance data comprises power data associated with a power of an antenna of the wireless network with which the user equipment device communicates.
8. A wireless network device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: selecting a precoding prediction model associated with a mobile device of mobile devices of a wireless network; based on the precoding prediction model, generating recommendation data representative of a precoding matrix to be sent to a distributed unit device of the wireless network; in response to the generating of the recommendation data, transmitting the recommendation data to the distributed unit device; in response to the transmitting of the recommendation data, receiving performance data associated with a performance of the mobile device; determining multiple-input multiple-output precoding information associated with neighboring remote unit devices to minimize intracellular interference between the mobile devices; and based on a result of the performing the multiple-input multiple-output precoding calculations, combining multiple-input multiple-output channels currently configured for use by the mobile devices to reduce a number of the multiple-input multiple-output channels, resulting in a reduced number of multiple-input multiple-output channels.
9. The wireless network device of claim 8, wherein the precoding prediction model is based on historical data associated with usage of the mobile device.
10. The wireless network device of claim 8, wherein the precoding prediction model is based on a detected pattern associated with the mobile device.
11. The wireless network device of claim 10, wherein the reduced number of the multiple-input multiple-output channels are in accordance with a service level agreement of the wireless network.
12. The wireless network device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a covariance eigenspace of a channel usable by the mobile devices for communication with the wireless network, partitioning the mobile devices into groups of mobile devices.
13. The wireless network device of claim 12, wherein, as a result of the partitioning, covariance eigenspaces of the groups are orthogonal.
14. The wireless network device of claim 12, wherein the precoding matrix is a first precoding matrix, and wherein the operations further comprise: based on the mobile device being determined to belong to a group of the groups, recommending a second precoding matrix to the distributed unit device.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on mobile device data representative of mobile device measurements applicable to a mobile device, receiving precoding prediction data representative of a precoding prediction model; based on the precoding prediction model, generating recommendation data representative of a precoding matrix to be sent to a distributed unit device of a wireless network; in response to the generating of the recommendation data, transmitting the recommendation data to the distributed unit device; in response to the transmitting of the recommendation data, receiving performance data associated with a performance of the mobile device; and performing multiple-input multiple-output precoding calculations associated with neighboring remote unit devices to minimize intracellular interference between mobile devices of the wireless network; and based on a result of the performing the multiple-input multiple-output precoding calculations, combining multiple-input multiple-output channels currently configured for use by the mobile devices to reduce a number of the multiple-input multiple-output channels, resulting in a reduced number of multiple-input multiple-output channels.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the mobile device data comprises location data associated with a previous location of the mobile device.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the mobile device data comprises usage data representative of a previous usage pattern of the mobile device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the mobile device is a first mobile device, and wherein the mobile device data comprises co-located mobile device data representative of a second mobile device determined to have been co-located to the first mobile device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting a pattern associated with the mobile device data, resulting in a detected pattern.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the precoding prediction model is determined from the precoding prediction data based on the detected pattern.
</claims>
</document>
