<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOUCHER, MAXIME
THAKER, SAHIL P.
GHAFOURIAN, MAHSA
JAIN, ARPIT SURESH
BINDAL, ANUJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56554416
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multimedia search using reshare text on online social networks
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes receiving a search query to search for multimedia objects of the online social network; searching an index to identify multimedia objects based on the search query, wherein the index indexes multimedia objects and associated keywords, each keyword being extracted from communications associated with a respective multimedia object, wherein each communication is of a particular communication-type, and wherein each identified multimedia object is indexed with keywords matching at least a portion of the search query; calculating, for each identified multimedia object, an object-score based on a communication-type of a communication from which one or more of the matching keywords were sourced; and sending instructions for presenting a search-results page to a client system, the search-results page including references to identified multimedia objects having an object-score greater than a threshold object-score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by one or more computing devices: receiving, by the one or more computing devices from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a search query to search for multimedia objects of the online social network; searching, by the one or more computing devices, an index of multimedia objects to identify one or more multimedia objects based on the search query, wherein the index of multimedia objects indexes a plurality of multimedia objects and one or more keywords associated with each multimedia object, each keyword being extracted from one or more communications associated with a respective multimedia object, wherein each communication is of a particular communication-type of a plurality of communication-types, and wherein each identified multimedia object is indexed with one or more keywords matching at least a portion of the search query; calculating, by the one or more computing devices, for each identified multimedia object, an object-score based on a communication-type of a communication from which one or more of the matching keywords were sourced; and sending, by the one or more computing devices to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a search-results page, the search-results page comprising references to one or more of the identified multimedia objects having an object-score greater than a threshold object-score.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising: a first node corresponding to the first user; and a plurality of user nodes corresponding to a plurality of second users of the online social network, respectively; and a plurality of concept nodes corresponding to a plurality of communications of the online social network, each communication including a reference to a multimedia object of the online social network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein searching the index of multimedia objects to identify one or more multimedia objects based on the search query comprises: accessing the index of multimedia objects, the index of multimedia objects comprising a plurality of entries, each entry comprising a link to a multimedia object and one or more keywords extracted from a communication comprising a link to the multimedia object; identifying one or more communications linking to one or more multimedia objects based on matching one or more n-grams of the search query with the one or more keywords extracted from the identified one or more communications; and identifying the one or more multimedia objects linked by the one or more communications.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on a count of communications having matching keywords.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of communication-types comprises a post-type and a reshare-type, wherein a communication of the post-type is a post and a communication of the reshare-type is a reshare, and wherein the object-score is further based on a count of posts having matching keywords and a count of reshares having matching keywords, wherein: a first weight is applied to the count of posts having matching keywords, and a second weight is applied to the count of reshares having matching keywords.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second weight is greater than the first weight.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on a quality of a match between the search query and the one or more keywords associated with the respective identified multimedia object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on a relationship within the online social network between the first user and an author of a communication corresponding to the respective identified multimedia object.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on whether an author of a communication corresponding to the respective identified multimedia object is identified as a key-author with respect to one or more topics associated with the communication.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on a current popularity of one or more topics associated with one or more communications corresponding to the respective identified multimedia object.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the object-score is further based on a number of times the identified multimedia object has been accessed by users of the online social network.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the references of the search-results page are presented in an order based on the object-scores of the identified multimedia objects corresponding to the references.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the search-results page further comprises posts or reshares associated with one or more of the identified multimedia objects, and wherein the posts or reshares are presented in an order based on respective post-scores, each post-score being based on one or more social signals.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein each post-score is further based on a relationship within the online social network between the first user and an author of the post or reshare.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a first communication, wherein the first communication comprises a post or reshare comprising a link to a multimedia object and associated text; accessing a post index, wherein the post index is a forward index; extracting one or more keywords from the associated text of the first post or reshare; indexing the first communication by a post ID in an index entry, the index entry comprising the link and the one or more extracted keywords from the associated text of the first communication.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a first communication, wherein the first communication comprises a post or reshare comprising a link to a multimedia object and associated text; accessing a multimedia index, wherein the multimedia index is an inverted index; extracting one or more keywords from the associated text of the first communication; indexing the link by a link ID in an index entry, the index entry further comprising one or more communication associated with the link and one or more extracted keywords from associated text of one or more communication associated with the link.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a first communication, wherein the first communication comprises a post or reshare comprising a link to a multimedia object and associated text; accessing a keyword index, wherein the keyword index is an inverted index; extracting one or more keywords from the associated text of the first communication; indexing the link by an extracted keyword from associated text of one or more communications associated with the link in an index entry, the index entry further comprising one or more links to one or more multimedia objects associated with the keyword.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more communications comprise one or more of a post, reshare, comment, or message.
19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to: receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a search query to search for multimedia objects of the online social network; search an index of multimedia objects to identify one or more multimedia objects based on the search query, wherein the index of multimedia objects indexes a plurality of multimedia objects and one or more keywords associated with each multimedia object, each keyword being extracted from one or more communications associated with a respective multimedia object, wherein each communication is of a particular communication-type of a plurality of communication-types, and wherein each identified multimedia object is indexed with one or more keywords matching at least a portion of the search query; calculate, for each identified multimedia object, an object-score based on a communication-type of a communication from which one or more of the matching keywords were sourced; and send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a search-results page, the search-results page comprising references to one or more of the identified multimedia objects having an object-score greater than a threshold object-score.
20. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to: receive, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, a search query to search for multimedia objects of the online social network; search an index of multimedia objects to identify one or more multimedia objects based on the search query, wherein the index of multimedia objects indexes a plurality of multimedia objects and one or more keywords associated with each multimedia object, each keyword being extracted from one or more communications associated with a respective multimedia object, wherein each communication is of a particular communication-type of a plurality of communication-types, and wherein each identified multimedia object is indexed with one or more keywords matching at least a portion of the search query; calculate, for each identified multimedia object, an object-score based on a communication-type of a communication from which one or more of the matching keywords were sourced; and send, to the client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a search-results page, the search-results page comprising references to one or more of the identified multimedia objects having an object-score greater than a threshold object-score.
</claims>
</document>
