<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TALKDESK
Talkdesk, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Paiva, Tiago
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73019866
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial intelligence for a graphically interactive voice response system
</title>

<abstract>
The graphical programming call router features a rich library of powerful and easy-to-use components that administrators can use to seamlessly drop in contact center actions such as data dips, complex interactive voice responses ("IVRs") and call recordings, among many others. This makes it easy to visualize the exact structure and outcome of any call flow. The graphical programming call router also offers granular queue management functionality so you can get specific around call prioritization, wait time and time-based actions on virtual queues.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for operation of a graphically interactive voice response (IVR) system for processing customer communications, the method comprising: presenting, on a computerized display for call routing, a graphical representation that allows a user to see a call flow route and a series of drop-down menus indicating options for transmitting incoming call data within an organization corresponding to the call flow route, said options including at least one intelligent virtual agent (IVA) component; and adding, to the computerized display, a graphical indication of an option selected by the user from the series of drop down menus and representing on the graphical representation a change to the call flow route based on the options from the series of drop-down menus selected by the user.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the IVA component comprises a plurality of subcomponents for artificial intelligence (Al), machine learning (ML), and advanced speech technologies (AST).
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the AST provides at least one of natural language understanding (NLU), natural language processing (NLP), or natural language generation (NLG).
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the IVA component simulates a live unstructured cognitive conversation for at least one of a voice channel, a text channel, or a digital interactions channel.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the IVA component is capable of listening in on an ongoing call.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the IVA component produces a sentiment journey score based on at least one of one or more words utilized by the customer, a volume of the customer, or a tone of input from the customer derived from listening in on the ongoing call.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the AST is capable of interfacing with an Al administrator for call routing.
8. A graphically interactive voice response (IVR) system for processing customer communications, said system comprising a memory, a call management subsystem, and a processor for: presenting, on a computerized display for call routing, a graphical representation that allows a user to see a call flow route and a series of drop-down menus indicating options for transmitting incoming call data within an organization corresponding to the call flow route, said options including at least one intelligent virtual agent (IVA) component; and adding, to the computerized display, a graphical indication of an option selected by the user from the series of drop down menus and representing on the graphical representation a change to the call flow route based on the options from the series of drop-down menus selected by the user.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein the IVA component comprises a plurality of subcomponents for artificial intelligence (Al), machine learning (ML), and advanced speech technologies (AST).
10. The system of claim 9 wherein the AST provides at least one of natural language understanding (NLU), natural language processing (NLP), or natural language generation (NLG).
11. The system of claim 8 wherein the IVA component simulates a live unstructured cognitive conversation for at least one of a voice channel, a text channel, or a digital interactions channel.
12. The system of claim 8 wherein the IVA component is capable of listening in on an ongoing call.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein the IVA component produces a sentiment journey score based on at least one of one or more words utilized by the customer, a volume of the customer, or a tone of input from the customer derived from listening in on the ongoing call.
14. The system of claim 8 wherein the AST is capable of interfacing with an Al administrator for call routing.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-readable instructions for processing customer communications that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: present, on a computerized display for call routing, a graphical representation that allows a user to see a call flow route and a series of drop-down menus indicating options for transmitting incoming call data within an organization corresponding to the call flow route, said options including at least one intelligent virtual agent (IVA) component; and add, to the computerized display, a graphical indication of an option selected by the user from the series of drop down menus and representing on the graphical representation a change to the call flow route based on the options from the series of drop-down menus selected by the user.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions whereby the IVA component comprises a plurality of subcomponents for artificial intelligence (Al), machine learning (ML), and advanced speech technologies (AST), wherein the AST provides at least one of natural language understanding (NLU), natural language processing (NLP), or natural language generation (NLG).
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions whereby the IVA component simulates a live unstructured cognitive conversation for at least one of a voice channel, a text channel, or a digital interactions channel.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions whereby the IVA component is capable of listening in on an ongoing call.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18 further comprising instructions whereby the IVA component produces a sentiment journey score based on at least one of one or more words utilized by the customer, a volume of the customer, or a tone of input from the customer derived from listening in on the ongoing call.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions whereby the AST is capable of interfacing with an Al administrator for call routing.
</claims>
</document>
