<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F3/16,G10L15/08,G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, JEONG HOON
KIM, YOUNG SEOK
YOO, SANG HYUN
JEON, JEHUN
CHOI, JUNHWI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66632480
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic device and method for conducting dialog
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device and an method of the electronic device are provided, where the electronic device maintains a context that does not reflect a request for a secret conversation, in response to the request for the secret conversation being received from a first user, and generates a response signal to a voice signal of a second user based on the maintained context, in response to an end of the secret conversation with the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a dialog apparatus, the method comprising: maintaining, by the dialog apparatus, a context that does not reflect a request for a secret conversation, in response to the request for the secret conversation being received from a first user; and generating, by a conversational agent of the dialog apparatus, a response signal to a voice signal of a second user based on the maintained context, in response to an end of the secret conversation with the first user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the maintaining of the context does not reflect a voice signal received from the first user during the secret conversation and a response signal generated during the secret conversation.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the maintaining of the context comprises maintaining a context that reflects conversation information acquired before the request for the secret conversation is received and that does not reflect the request for the secret conversation.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the conversation information comprises a voice signal that is received from the first user or the second user before the request for the secret conversation is received, and a response signal that is generated before the request for the secret conversation is received.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the secret conversation with the first user comprises reflecting a voice signal received from the first user during the secret conversation in the maintained context, and generating a response signal corresponding to the voice signal based on the maintained context reflecting the voice signal.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the request for the secret conversation is received from the first user.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determining of whether the request for the secret conversation is received from the first user comprises determining whether the request for the secret conversation is received from the first user based any one or any combination of whether a voice signal of the first user comprises a word corresponding to the secret conversation, and whether a button is activated by the first user to request the secret conversation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the context comprises one of structured text, unstructured text and a vector that indicate a context of a conversation between the dialog apparatus and one of the first user or the second user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the context comprises a first context for the first user and a second context for the second user, the maintaining of the context comprises maintaining the second context, and a voice signal received from the first user during the secret conversation with the first user and a response signal generated during the secret conversation are reflected in the first context.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the generating of the response signal comprises generating a response signal corresponding to a voice signal of the second user based on the second context.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein a voice signal received from the first user or the second user after the end of the secret conversation and a response signal corresponding to the voice signal are reflected in the first context and the second context.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the response signal comprises reflecting the voice signal of the second user in the maintained context, and generating the response signal corresponding to the voice signal of the second user based on the context reflecting the voice signal.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the operating method of claim 1.
14. A dialog apparatus comprising: a processor configured to maintain a context that does not reflect a request for a secret conversation, in response to the request for the secret conversation being received from a first user, and to generate, by a conversational agent of the dialog apparatus, a response signal to a voice signal of a second user based on the maintained context, in response to an end of the secret conversation with the first user.
15. The dialog apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to maintain a context that reflects conversation information acquired before the request for the secret conversation is received and that does not reflect the request for the secret conversation.
16. The dialog apparatus of claim 15, further comprising a memory configured to store an instruction executed by the processor.
17. The dialog apparatus of claim 14, wherein the secret conversation with the first user comprises reflecting a voice signal received from the first user during the secret conversation in the maintained context and generating a response signal corresponding to the voice signal based on the maintained context reflecting the voice signal.
18. The dialog apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether the request for the secret conversation is received from the first user.
19. The dialog apparatus of claim 14, wherein the context comprise a first context for the first user and a second context for the second user, and the processor is further configured to maintain the second context, and to reflect, in the first context, a voice signal received from the first user during the secret conversation with the first user and a response signal generated during the secret conversation.
20. An electronic device comprising: a touch-sensitive display; a memory configured to store a context; and a dialog apparatus configured to restrict an update of the context, in response to receiving a request for a secret conversation from a user, indicate, on the touch-sensitive display, that the context is not updated during the secret conversation, generate, by a conversational agent of the dialog apparatus, a first response signal based on the context reflecting a first voice signal of the user, determine whether a request for an end of the secret conversation is received from the user, in response to receiving a second voice signal from the user, generate, by the conversational agent, a second response signal based on the context reflecting the second voice signal of the user, and update the context with the second voice signal and the second response signal, in response to the request for the end of the secret conversation being received.
21. The electronic device of claim 20, wherein the dialog apparatus is further configured to change the touch-sensitive display to indicate that the context is being updated, in response to the request for the end of the secret conversation being received.
22. The electronic device of claim 20, wherein the context comprises a dialog between the electronic device and one or more users.
</claims>
</document>
