<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/35,G06F17/24,G06F17/27,G06F40/00,G06F40/169,G06F40/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YUN-YAO
CHITICARIU, LAURA
XU, ANBANG
ONDEGO, VICTOR K.
AKBIK, ALAN
WANG, CHENGUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68694098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Semi-automatic process for creating a natural language processing resource
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for a semi-automatic process for creating a natural language processing resource are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes identifying multiple annotation tasks in connection with natural language processing of input text, and automatically determining, based on analysis of (i) parameters related to the identified annotation tasks and (ii) parameters related to annotation task users, routing instructions for the identified annotation tasks, wherein the routing instructions comprise (a) instructions to route a first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to non-expert annotation task users and (b) instructions to route a second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to expert annotation task users. The method also includes routing, in accordance with the routing instructions, the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the non-expert annotation task users and the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the expert annotation task users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: identifying multiple annotation tasks in connection with natural language processing of a set of input text; automatically determining, based on analysis of (i) one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks and (ii) one or more parameters related to annotation task users, routing instructions for the identified annotation tasks, wherein the routing instructions comprise (a) instructions to route a first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more non-expert annotation task users and (b) instructions to route a second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more expert annotation task users; routing, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more non-expert annotation task users; routing, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more expert annotation task users; generating annotation task responses for (i) the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more non-expert annotation task users and (ii) the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more expert annotation task users; and performing one or more automated actions based at least in part on the generated annotation task responses; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the multiple annotation tasks comprise one or more semantic role labeling tasks.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said automatically determining comprises implementing a classifier that models an interplay between the identified annotation tasks.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, comprising: training the classifier.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more non-expert annotation task users comprise one or more crowdsourcing annotation task users.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks comprise time required to complete each of the identified annotation tasks.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks comprise costs required to complete each of the identified annotation tasks.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks comprise difficulty of each of the identified annotation tasks.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the annotation task users comprise availability of expert annotation task users.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the annotation task users comprise a skill set of each of the annotation task users.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the annotation task users comprise estimated quality of output generated by expert annotation task users for each of the identified annotation tasks.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters related to the annotation task users comprise estimated quality of output generated by non-expert annotation task users for each of the identified annotation tasks.
13. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: identify multiple annotation tasks in connection with natural language processing of a set of input text; automatically determine, based on analysis of (i) one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks and (ii) one or more parameters related to annotation task users, routing instructions for the identified annotation tasks, wherein the routing instructions comprise (a) instructions to route a first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more non-expert annotation task users and (b) instructions to route a second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more expert annotation task users; route, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more non-expert annotation task users; route, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more expert annotation task users; generate annotation task responses for (i) the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more non-expert annotation task users and (ii) the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more expert annotation task users; and perform one or more automated actions based at least in part on the generated annotation task responses.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said automatically determining comprises implementing a classifier that models an interplay between the identified annotation tasks.
15. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: identifying multiple annotation tasks in connection with natural language processing of a set of input text; automatically determining, based on analysis of (i) one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks and (ii) one or more parameters related to annotation task users, routing instructions for the identified annotation tasks, wherein the routing instructions comprise (a) instructions to route a first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more non-expert annotation task users and (b) instructions to route a second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more expert annotation task users; routing, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more non-expert annotation task users; routing, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more expert annotation task users; generating annotation task responses for (i) the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more non-expert annotation task users and (ii) the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more expert annotation task users; and performing one or more automated actions based at least in part on the generated annotation task responses.
16. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: obtaining an un-annotated set of input text; identifying multiple annotation tasks in connection with natural language processing of the un-annotated set of input text; automatically determining, via employing a trained classifier to analyze (i) one or more parameters related to the identified annotation tasks and (ii) one or more parameters related to annotation task users, routing instructions for the identified annotation tasks, wherein the routing instructions comprise (a) instructions to route a first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more non-expert annotation task users and (b) instructions to route a second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to one or more expert annotation task users; routing, in accordance with the determined routing instructions, (i) the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more non-expert annotation task users and (ii) the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks to the one or more expert annotation task users; compiling annotation task responses for (i) the first sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more non-expert annotation task users and (ii) the second sub-set of the identified annotation tasks from the one or more expert annotation task users; and outputting an annotated version of the set of input text based on the compiled annotation task responses; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the multiple annotation tasks comprise one or more semantic role labeling tasks.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the trained classifier comprises a classifier that models an interplay between the identified annotation tasks.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, comprising: training the classifier.
20. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: training a classifier to determine, in view of predetermined criteria that takes into consideration (i) resources required to accomplish one or more semantic role labeling tasks for natural language processing and (ii) quality of the output from one or more semantic role labeling tasks, whether a given semantic role labeling task (a) should be performed by one or more non-experts or (b) should be performed by one or more experts; applying the trained classifier to the semantic role labeling task; and automatically assigning the semantic role labeling task, in accordance with the application of the trained classifier, to the one or more non-experts or the one or more experts.
</claims>
</document>
