<document>

<filing_date>
2014-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
THEOCHAROUS, GEORGIOS
HALLAK, ASSAF JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54069303
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System identification framework
</title>

<abstract>
Optimizing customer lifetime value (LTV) techniques are described. In one or more implementations, a simulator is configured to derive a prediction model based on data indicative of user interaction online with marketing offers. The prediction model may be produced by automatically classifying variables according to feature types and matching each feature type to a response function that defines how the variable responds to input actions. The classification of variables and/or corresponding response functions per the prediction model may consider dependencies between variables and dependencies between successive states. An evaluator may then be invoked to apply the prediction model to test a proposed marketing strategy offline. Application of the prediction model is designed to predict user response to simulated offers/actions and enable evaluation of marketing strategies with respect to one or more long-term objectives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising: a processing system; one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the processing system, implement: a data collector configured to collect marketing data indicative of user interaction with online marketing offers provided by digital marketers in connection with access to resources over a computer network; a simulator configured to perform operations including: analyzing the collected marketing data to learn a set of features, classifying the features by feature types, and assigning response functions to the feature types that define how variables classified within each feature type respond to simulated online marketing offers; and deriving a prediction model based on the assigned response functions that models multiple marketing strategies according to a Q iteration reinforcement algorithm; an evaluator configured to test the multiple marketing strategies offline using the prediction model, including, for each of the multiple marketing strategies: ascertaining a respective value for each of the variables at a first time-state; generating a first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; predicting a user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state; responsive to predicting the user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer, updating the respective value for each of the variables at a second time-state based on the response functions by: updating a value of at least one of the variables to a random value; and updating a value of at least one other of the variables based on the respective value at the first time-state and the random value; generating a second simulated online marketing offer at the second time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; and predicting a user reaction to the second simulated offer at the second time-state; the evaluator further configured to perform operations including: comparing the multiple marketing strategies one to another using the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm, fitted by non-parametric regression trees corresponding to a long term offer acceptance value for each of the marketing strategies to the user reactions at the first and second time-states; selecting an optimal marketing strategy from among the multiple marketing strategies that maximized a Q value of the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm corresponding to the long term offer acceptance value; and outputting the optimal marketing strategy.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the data collector, simulator, and evaluator are implemented as components of an integrated digital marketing platform configured to provide a suite of digital marketing tools.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the feature types include feature types configured to support constant values, random variables, and dependent relationships between the features.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the feature types are identified automatically based on parsing of the collected marketing data.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the evaluator further computes transitions for additional time states by, for each time state of the additional time states, predicting a response to a previous simulated action, updating the values of the variables based on the predicted responses, and using the updated values of the variables as part of predicting a response for a next simulated action of a time-based sequence.
6. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the simulated actions include simulated offers and predicting responses includes predicting whether the simulated offers are accepted or rejected.
7. The computing device of claim 1, wherein selecting the optimal marketing strategy includes scoring the marketing strategies according to the offer acceptance long term value and identifying a strategy associated with a maximum of the offer acceptance long term value as the optimal marketing strategy.
8. The computing device of claim 1, wherein comparing the marketing strategies by the evaluator includes computing a sum of a reward function configured to measure one or more long term objectives to assess the offer acceptance long term value for each of the marketing strategies.
9. A method implemented by a computing device comprising: collecting marketing data indicative of user interaction with online marketing offers provided by digital marketers in connection with access to resources over a computer network; analyzing, by a simulator, the collected marketing data to learn a set of features, classifying the features by feature types, and assigning response functions to the feature types that define how variables classified within each feature type respond to simulated online marketing offers; deriving, by the simulator, a prediction model based on the assigned response functions that models multiple marketing strategies according to a Q iteration reinforcement algorithm; testing, by an evaluator, the multiple marketing strategies offline using the prediction model, including, for each of the multiple marketing strategies: ascertaining a respective value for each of the variables at a first time-state; generating a first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; predicting a user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state; responsive to predicting the user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer, updating the respective value for each of the variables at a second time-state based on the response functions by: updating a value of at least one of the variables to a random value; and updating a value of at least one other of the variables based on the respective value at the first time-state and the random value; generating a second simulated online marketing offer at the second time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; and predicting a user reaction to the second simulated offer at the second time-state; comparing, by the evaluator; the multiple marketing strategies one to another using the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm, fitted by non-parametric regression trees corresponding to a long term offer acceptance value for each of the marketing strategies to the user reactions at the first and second time-states; and selecting an optimal marketing strategy from among the multiple marketing strategies that maximized a Q value of the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm corresponding to the long term offer acceptance value.
10. A method as described in claim 9, wherein the simulator and the evaluator are implemented as components of an integrated digital marketing platform configured to provide a suite of digital marketing tools.
11. A method as described in claim 9, wherein the feature types include feature types configured to support constant values, random variables, and dependent relationships between the features.
12. A method as described in claim 9, wherein the feature types are identified automatically based on parsing of the collected marketing data.
13. A method as described in claim 9, further comprising computing transitions for additional time states by, for each time state of the additional time states, predicting a response to a previous simulated action, updating the values of the variables based on the predicted responses, and using the updated values of the variables as part of predicting a response for a next simulated action of a time-based sequence.
14. One or more computer-readable storage media comprising instructions that, when executed by a computing device, implement a marketing service configured to perform operations comprising: collecting marketing data indicative of user interaction with online marketing offers provided by digital marketers in connection with access to resources over a computer network; analyzing the collected marketing data to learn a set of features, classifying the features by feature types, and assigning response functions to the feature types that define how variables classified within each feature type respond to simulated online marketing offers; deriving a prediction model based on the response functions that models multiple marketing strategies according to a Q iteration reinforcement algorithm; testing the multiple marketing strategies offline using the prediction model, including, for each of the multiple marketing strategies: ascertaining a respective value for each of the variables at a first time-state; generating a first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; predicting a user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer at the first time-state; responsive to predicting the user reaction to the first simulated online marketing offer, updating the respective value for each of the variables at a second time-state based on the response functions by: updating a value of at least one of the variables to a random value; and updating a value of at least one other of the variables based on the respective value at the first time-state and the random value; generating a second simulated online marketing offer at the second time-state according to the respective marketing strategy; and predicting a user reaction to the second simulated offer at the second time-state; comparing the multiple marketing strategies one to another using the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm, fitted by non-parametric regression trees corresponding to a long term offer acceptance value for each of the marketing strategies to the user reactions at the first and second time-states; and selecting an optimal marketing strategy from among the multiple marketing strategies that maximized a Q value of the Q iteration reinforcement algorithm corresponding to the long term offer acceptance value.
15. The one or more computer-readable storage media in claim 14, the operations further comprising computing transitions for additional time states by, for each time state of the additional time states, predicting a response to a previous simulated action, updating the values of the variables based on the predicted responses, and using the updated values of the variables as part of predicting a response for a next simulated action of a time-based sequence.
16. A method as described in claim 13, wherein the simulated actions include simulated offers and predicting responses includes predicting whether the simulated offers are accepted or rejected.
17. A method as described in claim 9, wherein selecting the optimal marketing strategy includes scoring the marketing strategies according to the offer acceptance long term value and identifying a strategy associated with a maximum of the offer acceptance long term value as the optimal marketing strategy.
18. A method as described in claim 9, wherein comparing the marketing strategies by the evaluator includes computing a sum of a reward function configured to measure one or more long term objectives to assess the offer acceptance long term value for each of the marketing strategies.
19. The one or more computer-readable storage media in claim 15, wherein the simulated actions include simulated offers and predicting responses includes predicting whether the simulated offers are accepted or rejected.
20. The one or more computer-readable storage media in claim 14, wherein selecting the optimal marketing strategy includes scoring the marketing strategies according to the offer acceptance long term value and identifying a strategy associated with a maximum of the offer acceptance long term value as the optimal marketing strategy.
</claims>
</document>
