<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/23,G06F16/29,G06F16/583,G06F17/30,G06K9/46,G06T1/00,G06T7/00,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAYSTER, YAN
BANERJEE, SUJOY
BREWINGTON, BRIAN EDMOND
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56877133
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Change direction based map interface updating system
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for updating a map interface are provided. In one embodiment, a method includes obtaining data descriptive of a map tile of a map interface that is displayable on a display device. The map tile presents imagery associated with at least a portion of a geographic area. The method includes obtaining data descriptive of an image depicting at least the portion of the geographic area. The image is acquired by an image acquisition system. The method includes analyzing the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine an occurrence of a change associated with the geographic area. The method includes updating the map interface to reflect the change associated with the geographic area based at least in part on the occurrence of the change associated with the geographic area.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of updating a map interface for display on a display device, the map interface including a plurality of map tiles, each map tile associated with a portion of a geographic area depicted by the map interface, the method comprising: obtaining, by one or more computing devices, data descriptive of a map tile of the map interface, wherein the map tile presents imagery associated with a portion of the geographic area; obtaining, by the one or more computing devices, data descriptive of an image depicting at least the respective portion of the geographic area associated with the map tile, wherein the image is acquired by an image acquisition system; analyzing, by the one or more computing devices, the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine an occurrence of a change associated with the portion of geographic area, wherein the step of analyzing further comprises (a) analyzing at least one of a first plurality of cells of the map tile, each representing a sub-region of the respective portion of the geographic area, and at least a corresponding one of a second plurality of cells of the image, each corresponding to a respective sub-region represented by the first plurality of cells, (b) detecting an occurrence of a change associated with one or more of a structural asset, a transportation asset, an environmental asset, or an agricultural asset associated with one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the analysis in step (a), and (c) identifying a level of change associated with the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the detection in step (b); based at least in part on the identified level of change, updating, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile of the map interface to reflect the change associated with the portion of the geographic area; and providing for display on the display device an updated map interface including the updated map tile.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein analyzing, by the one or more computing devices, the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine the occurrence of the change associated with the portion of the geographic area comprises: inputting, by the one or more computing devices, data descriptive of the at least one of the first plurality of cells and the at least one of the second plurality of cells into a machine-learned binary classifier model to detect the occurrence of the change associated with the one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area; and receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a first output from the binary classifier model, the output descriptive of the occurrence of the change associated with the one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein analyzing, by the one or more computing devices, the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine the occurrence of the change associated with the portion of the geographic area further comprises: providing, by the one or more computing devices, data descriptive of other cells of the first and second pluralities of cells as another input to the binary classifier model to identify an occurrence of one or more changes associated with one or more other sub-regions of the geographic area; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a second output from the binary classifier model, the second output descriptive of the occurrence of one or more changes associated with one or more of the other sub-regions of the geographic area; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, a level of change associated with the geographic area based at least in part on the first and second outputs.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein updating, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile of the map interface comprises: determining, by the one or more computing devices, whether the level of change exceeds a threshold level; and updating, by the one or more computing devices, the map interface when the level of change exceeds the threshold level.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: providing, by the one or more computing devices, a control command to the image acquisition system to adjust an acquisition of imagery data associated with the respective portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the level of change.
6. The computer-implemented method claim 1, wherein updating, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile of the map interface comprises: providing, by the one or more computing devices, a control command to a map tile management system to create a new map tile to reflect the change associated with the portion of the geographic area.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein updating, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile of the map interface comprises: replacing, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile of the map interface with a new map tile that reflects the change associated with the portion of the geographic area.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the new map tile is based at least in part on the image depicting at least the portion of the geographic area.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the one or more computing devices, location data associated with a plurality of user devices, the location data descriptive of a number of user devices located at the portion of the geographic area; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, a level of importance associated with the geographic area based at least in part on the number of user devices located at the portion of the geographic area.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying, by the one or more computing devices, the map tile based at least in part on the level of importance associated with the portion of the geographic area.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the step of updating the map tile of the map interface is carried out subject to the level of importance associated with the portion of the geographic area being determined to be above a threshold.
12. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising computer executable instructions that when executed by one or more computer processors will cause the processors to: obtain data descriptive of a map tile of the map interface, wherein the map tile presents imagery associated with a portion of the geographic area; obtain data descriptive of an image depicting at least the respective portion of the geographic area associated with the map tile, wherein the image is acquired by an image acquisition system; analyze the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine an occurrence of a change associated with the portion of geographic area, wherein to analyze the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine the occurrence of the change associated with the portion of geographic area, the processors are caused to (a) analyze at least one of a first plurality of cells of the map tile, each representing a sub-region of the respective portion of the geographic area, and at least a corresponding one of a second plurality of cells of the image, each corresponding to a respective sub-region represented by the first plurality of cells, (b) detect an occurrence of a change associated with one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the analysis in step (a), and (c) identify a level of change associated with one or more of a structural asset, a transportation asset, an environmental asset, or an agricultural asset associated with the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the detection in step (b); based at least in part on the identified level of change, update the map tile of the map interface to reflect the change associated with the portion of the geographic area; and provide for display on the display device an updated map interface including the updated map tile.
13. A computer system for updating a map interface comprising: at least one processor; and at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: obtaining data descriptive of a map tile of the map interface, wherein the map tile presents imagery associated with a portion of the geographic area; obtaining data descriptive of an image depicting at least the respective portion of the geographic area associated with the map tile, wherein the image is acquired by an image acquisition system; analyzing the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine an occurrence of a change associated with the portion of geographic area, wherein the step of analyzing further comprises (a) analyzing at least one of a first plurality of cells of the map tile, each representing a sub-region of the respective portion of the geographic area, and at least a corresponding one of a second plurality of cells of the image, each corresponding to a respective sub-region represented by the first plurality of cells, (b) detecting an occurrence of change in one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the analysis in step (a), and (c) identifying a level of a change associated with one or more of a structural asset, a transportation asset, an environmental asset, or an agricultural asset associated with the portion of the geographic area based at least in part on the detection in step (b); based at least in part on the identified level of change, updating the map tile of the map interface to reflect the change associated with the portion of the geographic area; and providing for display on the display device an updated map interface including the updated map tile.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein analyzing, by the one or more computing devices, the data descriptive of the map tile and the data descriptive of the image to determine the occurrence of the change associated with the portion of the geographic area comprises: inputting data descriptive of the at least one of the first plurality of cells and the at least one of the second plurality of cells into a machine-learned binary classifier model to detect the occurrence of the change associated with the one or more sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area; and receiving a first output from the binary classifier model, the output descriptive of the occurrence of the change associated with the sub-regions of the portion of the geographic area.
15. The computer system of claim 13, wherein updating the map tile of the map interface comprises: determining whether the level of change exceeds a threshold level; and updating the map interface when the level of change exceeds the threshold level.
16. The computer system of claim 13, wherein updating the map tile of the map interface comprises: providing a control command to a map tile management system to create a new map tile to reflect the change in the geographic area.
17. The computer system of claim 13, wherein updating the map tile of the map interface comprises: replacing the map tile of the map interface with a new map tile that reflects the change associated with the portion of the geographic area.
18. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining location data associated with a plurality of user devices, the location data descriptive of a number of user devices located at the portion of the geographic area; and determining a level of importance associated with the geographic area based at least in part on the number of user devices located at the portion of the geographic area.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying the map tile based at least in part on the level of importance associated with the portion of the geographic area.
</claims>
</document>
