<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/455,G06F9/48,G06F9/50,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANI, AJAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65818688
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Opportunistic virtual machine migration
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for providing opportunistic virtual machine migration. In response to determining that a virtual machine will be rebooted, a determination is made whether the virtual machine should be migrated from the computing device that is currently hosting the virtual machine. Based on one or more criteria, a destination computing device for the virtual machine is identified. When a performance threshold is met, subsequent to shutting down the virtual machine at the current host and prior to rebooting the virtual machine at a new host, the virtual machine is migrated to the destination computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for allocating virtual machines executing on one or more computing devices, the method comprising: receiving a request to reboot a virtual machine; in response to the request, determining that the virtual machine requires maintenance such that a migration from a computing device currently hosting the virtual machine should be scheduled, the determining based at least in part on a predicted failure of the host computing device, the predicted failure determined by: identifying common attributes of the host computing device and the one or more computing devices; and calculating a predicted probability of failure of the host computing device and the one or more computing devices based at least in part on historical data associated with failure of the host computing device and the one or more computing devices; identifying, based on second criteria, a destination computing device for the virtual machine that meets or exceeds the second criteria; concurrently scheduling the migration with the reboot when it is determined that the migration should be allowed to proceed based on a time and resources threshold for performing the migration, wherein the migration includes migrating local state data for the virtual machine; and subsequent to shutting down the virtual machine and prior to restarting the virtual machine, migrating the virtual machine to the destination computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the time and resources threshold is based at least in part on a service level objective (SLO).
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising continuing execution of the virtual machine on the hosting computing device when the time and resources threshold is not met.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said migrating local state data comprises preserving state data stored in a local temporary disk that is attached to the virtual machine.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second criteria for identifying the destination computing device includes a condition of the destination computing device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the destination computing device is based in part on a software or hardware configuration.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining that the virtual machine should be migrated is based at least in part on a condition of the host computing device as determined by a machine learning function.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining that the virtual machine should be migrated is based at least in part on a security issue of the one or more computing devices.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining that the virtual machine should be migrated from the computing device is based at least in part on improvement to operation of a data center associated with the one or more computing devices.
10. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory in communication with the one or more processors, the memory having computer-readable instructions stored thereupon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising: determining that a virtual machine will be rebooted, the virtual machine hosted on a host computing device of a virtual computing environment; in response to determining that the virtual machine will be rebooted, determining that the virtual machine requires maintenance such that a migration from a computing device currently hosting the virtual machine should be scheduled, the determining based at least in part on a predicted failure of the host computing device, the predicted failure determined by: identifying common attributes of the host computing device and other computing devices of the virtual computing environment; and calculating a predicted probability of failure of the host computing device and the other computing devices based at least in part on historical data associated with failure of the host computing device and the other computing devices; identifying, based on second criteria, a destination computing device for the virtual machine that meets or exceeds the second criteria; concurrently scheduling the migration with the reboot when it is determined that the migration should be allowed to proceed based on a time and resources threshold for performing the migration; and subsequent to shutting down the virtual machine and prior to restarting the virtual machine, migrating the virtual machine to the destination computing device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the migration utilizes the request to perform the migrating in conjunction with a previously scheduled migration for maintenance associated with the currently hosting computing device.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the migrating comprises migrating local state data for the virtual machine based on a determination that migration of the local state data meets a performance threshold.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said migrating local state data comprises preserving the state data stored in a local temporary disk that is attached to the virtual machine.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the performance threshold is based at least in part on a service level objective (SLO).
15. The system of claim 10, wherein identifying the destination computing device is based in part on determining that a software or hardware configuration of the destination computing device meets requirements for the virtual machine.
16. A computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive a request for a service that requires reboot of a virtual machine, the virtual machine hosted on a host computing device of a virtual computing environment; in response to the request, determining that the virtual machine requires maintenance such that a migration from a computing device currently hosting the virtual machine should be scheduled, the determining based at least in part on a predicted failure of the host computing device, the predicted failure determined by: identifying common attributes of the host computing device and other computing devices of the virtual computing environment; and calculating a predicted probability of failure of the host computing device and the other computing devices based at least in part on historical data associated with failure of the host computing device and the other computing devices; identifying, based on second criteria, a destination computing device for the virtual machine that meets or exceeds the second criteria; concurrently scheduling the migration with the reboot when it is determined that the migration should be allowed to proceed based on a time and resources threshold for performing the migration, wherein the migration includes migrating local state data for the virtual machine; and provide a user notification that, in conjunction with the reboot, the virtual machine will be migrated from a computing device currently hosting the virtual machine in order to address a scheduled maintenance action for the computing device.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive a user input to proceed with the migration; and remove the user notification in response to the user input.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to terminate the migration based on determining that a time duration for the migration has exceeded a time threshold.
</claims>
</document>
