<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/58,G06F16/583,G06F16/903,G06F16/9535,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHUNG, EDGAR
JOYCE, ALAN
MESA, IAN
OLSON, JOSEPH
YANG, ZHE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67139809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital supplement association and retrieval for visual search
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identification and retrieval of content for visual search are provided. An example method includes receiving data specifying a digital supplement. The data may identify a digital supplement and a supplement anchor for associating the digital supplement with visual content. The method may also include generating a data structure instance that specifies the digital supplement and the supplement anchor and, after generating the data structure instance, enabling triggering of the digital supplement by an image based at least on storing the data structure instance in a database that includes a plurality of other data structure instances. The other data structure instances may each specify a digital supplement and one or more supplement anchors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a search server from a digital supplement server, data specifying a digital supplement, the data identifying a visual supplement anchor associated with the digital supplement; generating, by the search server, a data structure instance that specifies the digital supplement and the visual supplement anchor; storing, in a database of the search server, the data structure instance, the database including a plurality of other data structure instances, each of the plurality of other data structure instances including a digital supplement and one or more visual supplement anchors associated with each digital supplement; and in response to generating and storing the data structure instance, enabling triggering of the digital supplement in response to a visual content query received by the search server from a client computing device, the visual content query including an image, the image including the visual supplement anchor associated with the stored data structure instance.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the receiving the data specifying the digital supplement includes: analyzing a web page; and identifying metadata associated with the digital supplement represented within the web page.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the receiving the data specifying the digital supplement further includes: prior to analyzing the web page, crawling a plurality of web pages including the web page.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the receiving the data specifying the digital supplement further includes: prior to analyzing the web page, receiving an identifier of the web page.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising associating the data structure instance with a popularity score for the web page.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising associating the data structure instance with a relevance score for the visual supplement anchor based on the web page.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the digital supplement includes a name, a description, an image, and a uniform resource locator.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the digital supplement includes an identifier of an application.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, after enabling the triggering of the digital supplement: receiving the visual-content query that includes the image; determining that the image matches the visual supplement anchor specified by the generated data structure instance; and responsive to determining that the image matches the visual supplement anchor, providing the digital supplement from the data structure instance in response to the visual-content query.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the determining that the image matches the visual supplement anchor includes identifying an entity within the image.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the data structure instance also specifies context information and wherein providing the digital supplement from the data structure instance includes providing the data from the data structure instance based on determining that the context has been satisfied.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the providing the digital supplement from the data structure instance in response to the visual-content query includes providing a list of digital supplements, the list including the digital supplement from the data structure instance and a digital supplement from one of the other data structure instances and being ordered based on one or more of popularity scores and relevance scores.
13. A computing device, comprising: at least one processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing device to: receive data specifying a digital supplement, the data identifying a visual supplement anchor associated with the digital supplement, and context information; generate a data structure instance that specifies the digital supplement, the visual supplement anchor, and the context information; store, in a database, the data structure instance, the database including a plurality of other data structure instances, each of the plurality of other data structure instances including a digital supplement and one or more visual supplement anchors associated with each digital supplement; and in response to generating and storing the data structure instance, enable triggering of the digital supplement in response to a visual content query, the visual content query including an image, the image including the visual supplement anchor associated with the stored data structure instance.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the context information includes a location.
15. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the context information includes an entity identified within the image.
16. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the context information includes multiple entities identified within the image.
17. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a search server, a visual-content query from a client computing device, the visual content query including an image; identifying, by the search server, a visual supplement anchor within the image included in the visual-content query; searching, by the search server, a plurality of data structure instances stored in a database, each of the plurality of data structure instances including a digital supplement and at least one visual supplement anchor associated with each digital supplement; identifying, by the search server, digital supplements based on the visual supplement anchor identified within the image and the search of the database; generating, by the search server, an ordered list of digital supplements based on the identified digital supplements and the search of the database; and transmitting the ordered list of digital supplements to the client computing device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the digital supplements includes a URL to a web page that presents information about an entity identified in the image.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the digital supplements includes a URL to a web page that presents a coupon code for an entity identified in the image.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the digital supplements includes video content that is identified based on the image.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein at least one of the digital supplements includes a request to a server and parameters for that request.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the parameters initiate a workflow.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the digital supplements in the list are ordered based on one or more of popularity scores and relevance scores.
</claims>
</document>
