<document>

<filing_date>
2014-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/23,G06F17/30,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
NAMESFORLIFE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARRITY, GEORGE, M.
PARKER, JR., CHARLES T.
KRDZAVAC, NENAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52689509
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Establishing semantic equivalence between concepts
</title>

<abstract>
A method for establishing semantic equivalence between a plurality of concepts including: providing an Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map in which first, second, and third extensional concept models are related; selecting or de-selecting a concept in the first concept model; selecting or deselecting a (relation, concept) pair representing an intensional relation from a concept in the first concept model to a concept in the second concept model over a concept in the third concept model; determining a subset of intensional relations from the selected concepts in the first concept model to concepts in the second concept model; determining a set of concepts from the first concept model that are related to concepts in the second concept model over the selected (relation, concept) pairs; and determining the narrowest common extension of the set of concepts from the first, second, or third concept models that are related over the selected intensional relations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for establishing semantic equivalence between a plurality of concepts, comprising the steps of: a. providing an Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map in which first, second, and third extensional concept models are related to one another such that the second concept model is orthogonal to the first concept model and the third extensional concept model is distinct from the first and second concept models, wherein each concept from the first concept model has an intensional relation to one concept from the second concept model over one concept in the third concept model as a (relation, concept) pair, wherein each concept represented in the first concept model is selectable or de-selectable, and wherein each intensional relation between concepts in the first and second concept model is selectable or de-selectable; b. at least one of selecting or de-selecting a concept in the first concept model; c. at least one of selecting or de-selecting a (relation, concept) pair representing an intensional relation from a concept in the first concept model to a concept in the second concept model over a concept in the third concept model; d. based on the at least one of selecting or de-selecting a concept in the first concept model, determining a subset of intensional relations from the selected concepts in the first concept model to concepts in the second concept model; e. based on the at least one of selecting or de-selecting a (relation, concept) pair representing and intensional relation over a concept in the third concept model, determining a set of concepts from the first concept model that are related to concepts in the second concept model over the selected (relation, concept) pairs, f. based on the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs, determining a set of deselected (relation, concept) pairs; and g. determining at least one of the narrowest common extension of the set of concepts from the first, second, or third concept models that are related over the selected intensional relations, wherein the narrowest common extension of the selected concepts from the first concept model is designated as being semantically equivalent to the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs relating each selected concept from the first concept model to a concept in the second concept model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising simplifying the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs comprising substituting a plurality of (relation, concept) pairs with a single (relation, concept) pair comprising a relation over the narrowest common extension of the subset of concepts from the third concept model represented in the subset of (relation, concept) pairs and the narrowest common extension of the subset of concepts from the second concept model represented in the subset of (relation, concept) pairs.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map to produce a plurality of assertions comprising at least one of the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs and the set of de-selected (relation, concept) pairs.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the description of one characteristic of an entity comprises a set of assertions of intensional properties of the entity, wherein each assertion includes one of: a. a concept in the first concept model; b. a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the first concept model; c. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, concept)), wherein the concept is in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; d. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, function (parameters))), wherein the function maps the parameters to a concept in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; e. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, text)), wherein the text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; or f. a tuple having a format (entity, (first text, second text)), wherein the first text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the third concept model, and wherein the second text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the second concept model; the method further comprising g. constructing a concept filter having a second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, h. using the concept filter, applying the set of assertions of intensional properties to the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map to produce an intersection of the selected concepts from the first concept models for the first Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map and the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, i. using the concept filter, determining the narrowest common extension of the intersection, and j. if the narrowest common extension is not a top level concept, designating the entity as matching the concept filter over the first Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the concept filter is assigned a unique identifier, stored in a structured format in a storage medium, and is retrievable using the unique identifier.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising a corpus comprising a plurality of electronic resources each comprising textual content, wherein, for each electronic resource in the corpus, the method further comprises a) using one or more Information Extraction systems to recognize within the textual content at least one name, term, label, or identifier of an entity and at least one name, term, label, or identifier of concepts from the first, second, and third concept set corresponding to the entity and to produce a set of assertions for the entity, and b) resolving the concepts represented by the identified names, terms, labels, or identifiers to semantically equivalent concepts in a target concept set selected from the first, second, and third concept sets.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising modifying the textual content by substituting the at least one name, term, label, or identifier identified in a) with a name, term, label, or identifier mapped to semantically equivalent concepts identified in b).
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising modifying the textual content by embedding a tag, attribute, link, or metadata comprising a name, term, label, or identifier mapped to semantically equivalent concepts identified in b).
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising producing a list comprising all semantically equivalent concepts identified in the textual content.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining a narrowest common extension of an intersection of a list of semantically equivalent concepts identified in textual content of a first electronic document and a list of semantically equivalent concepts identified in textual content of a second electronic document, and using the resulting concept, placing the first and second electronic documents in a group identified by the resulting concept.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising storing a persistent identifier of one or more concept filters in an index with the electronic documents in which the semantically equivalent concepts were identified.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising creating a second concept filter by applying the first set of assertions comprising terms, concepts, or tuples of concepts and relations to select or de-select semantically equivalent concepts in a second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, and storing the second concept filter in an index with the identifiers of matching documents.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising creating a third concept filter using a second set of assertions comprising terms, concepts, or tuples of concepts and relations to select or deselect semantically equivalent concepts in a third Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, and using the assertions or selected concepts from the third concept filter to match the first or second concept filters.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising storing a persistent identifier for the third concept filter with a list of persistent identifiers for identifying at least one of the first concept filter and the second concept filter which matched the third concept filter.
15. The method of claim 4, wherein the description of a characteristic of an entity further comprises a second set of assertions of intensional properties of the entity, wherein each assertion includes one of: a. a concept in the first concept model; b. a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the first concept model; c. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, concept)), wherein the concept is in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; d. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, function(parameters))), wherein the function maps the parameters to a concept in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; e. a tuple having a format (entity, (relation, text)), wherein the text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the second concept model, and wherein the relation is a relation over a concept in the third concept model; or f. a tuple having a format (entity, (first text, second text)), where the first text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the third concept model, and wherein the second text is a name, term, label, phrase, or identifier for a concept in the second concept model; the method further comprising g. constructing a concept adapter having second concept filter having a third Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, h. using the second concept filter, applying the second set of assertions to the third Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map to produce a second intersection of the selected concepts from the first concept models for the first Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map and the third Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, i. using the concept adapter, determining the narrowest common extension of the second intersection, and j. if the narrowest common extension is not a top level concept, designating the entity as matching the concept adapter over the first Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map.
16. The method of claim 4, further comprising providing a user interface for manipulating or constructing a concept filter based on an Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map.
17. The method of claim 4, further comprising storing the set of assertions in a repository comprising a relational database or a triplestore.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising retrieving properties of the entity using a query language.
19. The method of claim 4, wherein the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map is different from the first Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map.
20. The method of claim 5, further comprising providing a user interface for manipulating or constructing a concept adapter based on Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Maps.
21. The method of claim 5, wherein the third Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map is different from the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein each concept represented in the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map is identified by a unique identifier.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map is assigned a unique identifier, is stored in a structured format in a storage medium, and is retrievable via the unique identifier.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the unique identifier assigned to the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map is selected from the group consisting of Universally Unique Identifier (UUID), Globally Unique Identifier (or GUID), Digital Object Identifier (DOI), Archival Resource Key (or ARK), and Life Science Identifier (or LSID).
25. The method of claim 23, further comprising a. retrieving a second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map from the storage medium using a second assigned unique identifier, b. comparing the selected set of (relation, concept) pairs to the set of (relation, concept) pairs in the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map retrieved from the storage medium, c. if the selected set of (relation, concept) pairs are the same as the second set of (relation, concept) pairs in the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map retrieved from the storage medium, a relation of synonymy is established between the narrowest common extension of the selected concepts in the first concept model and the narrowest common extension of the first concept model in the second Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map retrieved from the storage medium, and d. if the selected set of (relation, concept) pairs are not the same as any set of (relation, concept) pairs in Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Maps retrieved from the storage medium, the selected set of (relation, concept) pairs is designated as a newly-discovered concept.
26. The method of claim 1, further comprising mapping a controlled vocabulary to each concept model, wherein the controlled vocabulary includes names, terms, labels, phrases, or identifiers such that: a. any term within the controlled vocabulary may be resolved to a concept within a concept model within the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map, and b. any term within the controlled vocabulary may be used to select or de-select the concept to which it resolves.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the controlled vocabulary comprises a set of domain values from a relational database.
28. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing a user interface for manipulating or constructing the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Maps.
29. The method of claim 1, further comprising functionally mapping one or more classes in an ontology to one or more concepts in one or more Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Maps.
30. The method of claim 1, further comprising encoding the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Maps in a knowledge base using a decidable formal logic.
31. The method of claim 30, further comprising checking the decidable formal logic that produces indirect entity properties for satisfiability based on existing entity properties.
32. The method of claim 1, further comprising encoding the Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map in an ontology using rules, constraints, functions, and templates.
33. A system for establishing semantic equivalence between a plurality of concepts, comprising: a user interface; a storage medium; and a controller in operative communication with the user interface and the storage medium, the controller comprising a computer processor running software, said processor: a. providing an Orthogonal Semantic Equivalence Map in which first, second, and third extensional concept models are related to one another such that the second concept model is orthogonal to the first concept model and the third extensional concept model is distinct from the first and second concept models, wherein each concept from the first concept model has an intensional relation to one concept from the second concept model over one concept in the third concept model as a (relation, concept) pair, wherein each concept represented in the first concept model is selectable or de-selectable, and wherein each intensional relation between concepts in the first and second concept model is selectable or de-selectable; b. at least one of selecting or de-selecting a concept in the first concept model; c. at least one of selecting or de-selecting a (relation, concept) pair representing an intensional relation from a concept in the first concept model to a concept in the second concept model over a concept in the third concept model; d. based on the at least one of selecting or de-selecting a concept in the first concept model, determining a subset of intensional relations from the selected concepts in the first concept model to concepts in the second concept model; e. based on the at least one of selecting or de-selecting a (relation, concept) pair representing and intensional relation over a concept in the third concept model, determining a set of concepts from the first concept model that are related to concepts in the second concept model over the selected (relation, concept) pairs, f. based on the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs, determining a set of deselected (relation, concept) pairs; and g. determining at least one of the narrowest common extension of the set of concepts from the first, second, or third concept models that are related over the selected intensional relations, wherein the narrowest common extension of the selected concepts from the first concept model is designated as being semantically equivalent to the set of selected (relation, concept) pairs relating each selected concept from the first concept model to a concept in the second concept model.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the user interface comprises input and output devices in operative communication with the controller.
</claims>
</document>
