<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/00,G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUELLER ERIK T.
COMAN, ALEXANDRA
MAYER, MARGARET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67768686
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Thoughtful gesture generation systems and methods
</title>

<abstract>
Consistent with the disclosed embodiments, systems and methods are provided herein for autonomously generating a thoughtful gesture for a customer. In one example implementation of the disclosed technology, a method is provided that includes receiving incoming customer dialogue and determining, based on the customer dialogue, customer information including one or more of: customer preferences, customer biographical information, and customer current life circumstances. The method also includes generating, based on the customer information, gesture-specific information-eliciting utterances for additional dialogue with the customer and identifying one or more response opportunities based on additional incoming customer dialogue responsive to sending the gesture-specific information-eliciting utterances to the customer. Further, the method includes generating a thoughtful gesture based on the identified one or more response opportunities and outputting, for presentation to the customer, the thoughtful gesture.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A dialogue management device for autonomously generating thoughtful gestures for a customer, the dialogue management device comprising: a thoughtful gesture generation device comprising: a first processor; an event queue; and a rule-based platform; a natural language processing device comprising a second processor; and memory in communication with at least the first processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the dialogue management device to: receive, via the event queue, incoming customer dialogue; determine, by the thoughtful gesture generation device, based on the incoming customer dialogue, customer information comprising one or more of: customer preferences, customer biographical information, and customer current life circumstances; generate, by the first processor, from a solution space of available candidate thoughtful gestures and based on the determined customer information, a candidate thoughtful gesture; generate, by the rule-based platform of the thoughtful gesture generation device, dialog modifying commands that program the natural language processing device to output surprise-preserving dialogue to elicit from the customer additional gesture refinement information while avoiding revealing the candidate thoughtful gesture by masking dialogue related to the candidate thoughtful gesture; modify, by the natural language processing device and based on the dialog modifying commands, the candidate thoughtful gesture based on additional incoming customer dialogue responsive to the surprise-preserving dialogue; and output, for presentation to the customer, the modified candidate thoughtful gesture.
2. The dialogue management device of claim 1, wherein the solution space is constrained for selection, and wherein the instructions cause the dialogue management device to generate the candidate thoughtful gesture by a selection of a thoughtful gesture of the available candidate thoughtful gestures from a constrained solution space or from a preselected subset of the constrained solution space.
3. The dialogue management device of claim 1, wherein the solution space is unconstrained, and wherein the instructions cause the dialogue management device to generate the thoughtful gesture as a natural-language construct describing a sequence of actions.
4. The dialogue management device of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the dialogue management device to generate agent dialogue responsive to the incoming customer dialogue to further identify response opportunities.
5. The dialogue management device of claim 1, wherein the candidate thoughtful gesture is generated based on a dialogue trigger, wherein the dialogue trigger comprises salient information detected in the incoming customer dialogue by the thoughtful gesture generation device.
6. The dialogue management device of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the dialogue management device to send the surprise-preserving dialogue to a computing device associated with the customer to elicit additional information.
7. The dialogue management device of claim 6, wherein the additional information is utilized to refine the candidate thoughtful gesture.
8. The dialogue management device of claim 1, further comprising a trained machine learning model.
9. A computer-implemented method for autonomously generating a thoughtful gesture for a customer, comprising: receiving, by a natural language processing device in communication with a thoughtful gesture generation device processor, incoming customer dialogue; determining, by the thoughtful gesture generation device processor, based on the incoming customer dialogue, customer information comprising one or more of: customer preferences, customer biographical information, and customer life circumstances; generating, by the thoughtful gesture generation device processor, from a solution space of available candidate thoughtful gestures and based on the determined customer information, a candidate thoughtful gesture; generating, by a rule-based platform of the thoughtful gesture generation device processor, dialogue-modifying commands that program the natural language processing device to output surprise-preserving dialogue to elicit from the customer additional gesture refinement information while avoiding revealing the candidate thoughtful gesture by masking dialogue related to the candidate thoughtful gesture; modifying, by the natural language processing device and based on the dialogue modifying commands the candidate thoughtful gesture based on additional incoming dialogue responsive to the surprise-preserving dialogue; and outputting, for presentation to the customer, the modified candidate thoughtful gesture.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the candidate thoughtful gesture is generated based on a pre-established solution space.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the candidate thoughtful gesture is further based on a dialogue trigger.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the dialogue trigger comprises salient information detected in the incoming customer dialogue by the thoughtful gesture generation device.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating one or more of: gesture intentions; general information-eliciting utterances when no partial gesture candidates are determined; and additional candidate gestures.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising one or more of: identifying relevant missing gesture-related information; generating gesture-specific information-eliciting utterances; acquiring supporting evidence for a gesture; acquiring contrary evidence for a gesture; abandoning a candidate gesture; refining a candidate gesture; masking an utterance intention to preserve informational content elicitation potential of an utterance while increasing its context justifiability; abandoning a gesture intention; committing to a gesture; and ordering a product for sending to the customer.
</claims>
</document>
