<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/44,G06F21/45,G06F21/50,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06N99/00,H04L29/06,H04W12/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GILL, BALKARAN
GHOSH, SANTOSH
SINDIA, SURAJ
SHIRYAN, LITAL
MUNAFO, TAMIR DAMIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60677741
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Self-adaptive security framework
</title>

<abstract>
A self-adaptive security framework for a device is disclosed. A first security level for a device is set wherein the first security level comprises procedures that authenticate a user and allow the user to access the device. Input from sensors associated with the device may be received at a contextual sensing engine, wherein the input at least includes location data, and wherein at least a portion of the input is related to a physical setting where the device is located. A threat level for the device is determined in the physical setting via the contextual sensing engine based on analyzing the input. The first security level is altered to a second security level to provide an altered threat response for the device based on the threat level wherein the second security level has different procedures to authenticate the user compared to the first security level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a self-adaptive security framework for a device, comprising: setting a first security level for a device wherein the first security level comprises procedures that authenticate a user and allow the user to access the device; receiving input from sensors associated with the device at a contextual sensing engine, wherein the input at least includes location data, and wherein at least a portion of the input is related to a physical setting where the device is located; determining a threat level for the device in the physical setting via the contextual sensing engine based on analyzing the input; altering the first security level to a second security level to provide an altered threat response for the device based on the determined threat level wherein the second security level has different procedures to authenticate the user compared to the first security level, wherein the procedures for the second security level initiate a response in the device wherein the response is selected from the group of responses consisting of: hibernation, total memory encryption, network sync removal, auto-power down, and theft detection initiation; receiving additional input from the sensors; determining a change to the threat level; and altering the second security level to a third security level.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the threat level is selected from a predetermined group of threat levels consisting of: unreliable, tertiary-reliance, alter-reliance, and self-assured.
3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein each of the predetermined group of threat levels has a corresponding security level to response to a type of threat.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the input is selected from the group of data consisting of: environmental temperature data, location data, social network data, calendar data, event data, biometric data related to the user, body temperature data, heart rate data, image data, perceptual computing data, time data, accelerometer data, movement data, WiFi data, Internet Protocol (IP) address data, Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) data, Global Positioning System (GPS) data, watch dog timer data, and any combination thereof.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the procedures to authenticate a user for the first security level or the second security level are selected from the group of authentication procedures consisting of: no authentication, a swipe, two-factor authentication, a single password, gait authentication, active theft detection, a personal identification number authentication, a strong password, voice authentication, fingerprint authentication, biometric authentication, and any combination thereof.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the contextual sensing engine employs a Bayesian context miner.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the contextual sensing engine employs a linear regression model based on the device and the environment where the device will be used.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the contextual sensing engine employs a non-linear regression model based on the device and the environment where the device will be used.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the contextual sensing engine normalizes data of the input and places the data in a cross correlation matrix for the determining the threat level.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the input is sampled regularly at predetermined intervals of time.
11. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the determining the threat level is based on a winner take all approach wherein a highest threat level is determined to be the threat level.
12. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the procedures for the first security level are more stringent compared to the procedures for second security level.
13. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the procedures for the first security level are less stringent compared to the procedures for second security level.
14. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the altering the first security level to the second security level employs a continuum of software policies that can be enforced to allow or restrict certain applications executing at the device to be run based on a context in which the device is used.
15. A device for a self-adaptive security, comprising: at least one sensor configured to gather input wherein at least a portion of the input is related to a physical setting where the device is located; a processor and memory configured to: set a first security level for the device wherein the first security level comprises procedures that authenticate a user and allow the user to access the device; receive the input from the at least one sensor at a contextual sensing engine; determine a threat level for the device in the physical setting via the contextual sensing engine based on analyzing the input; alter the first security level to a second security level to provide an altered threat response for the device based on the determined threat level wherein the second security level has different procedures to authenticate the user compared to the first security level, wherein the procedures for the second security level initiate a response in the device wherein the response is selected from the group of responses consisting of: hibernation, total memory encryption, network sync removal, auto-power down, and theft detection initiation; receive additional input from the at least one sensor; determine a change to the threat level; and alter the second security level to a third security level.
16. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the device is selected from a group of devices consisting of: a mobile device, a smart phone, a laptop, a tablet computer, and an Internet of Things (loT) device.
17. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the at least one sensor is selected from the group of sensors consisting of: a gyro, an accelerometer, a thermometer, a camera, a heart rate monitor, a network card, a Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) sensor, Global Positioning System (GPS) sensor, and a clock.
18. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the threat level is selected from a predetermined group of threat levels consisting of: unreliable, tertiary-reliance, alter-reliance, and self-assured.
19. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein each of the predetermined group of threat levels has a corresponding security level to response to a type of threat.
20. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the input is selected from the group of data consisting of: environmental temperature data, location data, social network data, calendar data, event data, biometric data related to the user, body temperature data, heart rate data, image data, perceptual computing data, time data, accelerometer data, movement data, WiFi data, Internet Protocol (IP) address data, Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) data, Global Positioning System (GPS) data, watch dog timer data, and any combination thereof.
21. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the procedures to authenticate a user for the first security level or the second security level are selected from the group of authentication procedures consisting of: no authentication, a swipe, two-factor authentication, a single password, gait authentication, active theft detection, a personal identification number authentication, a strong password, voice authentication, fingerprint authentication, biometric authentication, and any combination thereof.
22. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the contextual sensing engine normalizes data of the input and places the data in a cross correlation matrix for the determining the threat level.
23. The device as recited in claim 15 wherein the input is sampled regularly at predetermined intervals of time.
24. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the determining the threat level is based on a winner take all approach wherein a highest threat level is determined to be the threat level.
25. The device as recited in claim 15, wherein the altering the first security level to the second security level employs a continuum of software policies that can be enforced to allow or restrict certain applications executing at the device to be run based on a context in which the device is used.
</claims>
</document>
