<document>

<filing_date>
2014-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANGAL, RAJEEV
PESIC, NEBOJSA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55853133
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, manufacture, and system of transferring authenticated sessions and states between electronic devices
</title>

<abstract>
In various example embodiments, a system and method for transferring an authenticated session of an application running on one electronic device to a second electronic device after determining the second electronic device is a trusted device are presented. In one embodiment, an instruction is received to transfer an authenticated session of an application running on a first device associated with a user account to a second device associated with the user account. The second device is verified to be associated with the user account of the first device. The second device is determined to be a trusted device of an authorized user of the user account. The authenticated session of the application running on the first device is transferred to the second device to reproduce a current state of the authenticated session on the second device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating application data within a first authenticated session established via a first account of a first user on a first application running on a first device, wherein the application data identifies one or more items in a first online shopping container of the first application; receiving, by one or more hardware processors, an instruction from the first device to transfer the application data from the first authenticated session to a second authenticated session established via a second user account of a second user on a second application running on a second device; verifying the second user account is permitted to receive a transfer of the application data from the first user account by determining the second user account is included on a list associated with the first user account and determining the second device is a trusted device based on a device reputation determined for the second device, wherein the device reputation of the second device is determined by identifying the second device is included on a device list associated with the first user account; and transferring, by the one or more hardware processors, the application data from the first authenticated session to the second authenticated session by copying the one or more items in the first online shopping container of the first application to a second online shopping container of the second application, the first online shopping container remaining active on the first device with the one or more items after copying the one or more items to the second online shopping container.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more hardware processors, instructions to register the second device with the first user account for authenticated session transfers; creating a device identifier for the second device; and adding the device identifier to the device list associated with the first user account.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the device reputation of the second device is based on transactions performed on the second device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the device reputation of the second device is further determined by: accessing recorded user activity on the second device, the recorded user activity representing user data tracked while the second user is on an active session of the second application; and determining no fraudulent activity was identified from the recorded user activity.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the device reputation of the second device is further determined by: determining only good transactions on behalf of the first user have occurred on the second device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the device reputation of the second device is further determined by: determining the second device is a known good device based on the second device being included on the device list.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the second device is the known good device further comprises: automatically determining the known good device based on good transactions using the second application on the second device.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the second device is the known good device further comprises: receiving instructions indicating the first user has indicated the second device is a known good device.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the second device is the known good device further comprises: determining the second device is not included on a known bad device list.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second device is the trusted device further comprises: accessing characteristics of the second device, the characteristics including a device type; and determining the second device is the trusted device based in part on the characteristics of the second device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second device is the trusted device further comprises: determining the second device is the trusted device based in part on a risk score.
12. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: generating application data within a first authenticated session established via a first account on a first application running on a first device, wherein the application data identifies one or more items in a first online shopping container of the first application; receiving an instruction from the first device to transfer the application data from the first authenticated session to a second authenticated session established via a second user account on a second application running on a second device verifying the second user account is permitted to receive a transfer of the application data from the first user account by determining the second user account is included on a list associated with the first user account and determining the second device is a trusted device based on a device reputation determined for the second device, wherein the device reputation of the second device is determined by identifying the second device is included on a device list associated with the first user account; and transferring the application data from the first authenticated session to the second authenticated session by copying the one or more items in the first online shopping container of the first application to a second online shopping container of the second application, the first online shopping container remaining active on the first device with the one or more items after copying the one or more items to the second online shopping container.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the application data further represents items in a wish list.
14. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 12, wherein the device reputation of the second device is further determined by: determining the second device is a known good device.
15. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 14, wherein determining the second device is the known good device further comprises receiving instructions indicating the first user has indicated the second device is a known good device.
16. A system comprising: one or more hardware processors and a storage device storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more hardware processors, causes the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising: generating application data within a first authenticated session established via a first account on a first application running on a first device, wherein the application data identifies one or more items in a first online shopping container of the first application; receiving, by one or more hardware processors, an instruction from the first device to transfer the application data from the first authenticated session to a second authenticated session established via a second user account on a second application running on a second device verifying the second user account is permitted to receive a transfer of the application data from the first user account by determining the second user account is included on a list associated with the first user account and determining the second device is a trusted device based on a device reputation determined for the second device, wherein the device reputation of the second device is determined by identifying the second device is included on a device list associated with the first user account; and transferring, by the one or more hardware processors, the application data from the first authenticated session to the second authenticated session by copying the one or more items in the first online shopping container of the first application to a second online shopping container of the second application, the first online shopping container remaining active on the first device with the one or more items after copying the one or more items to the second online shopping container.
</claims>
</document>
