<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042,G06F1/3234
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONLEY, MYLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73554603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed electrical power management system
</title>

<abstract>
Devices in an environment may be transitioned to a low power state based on calendar data or other types of user input. User input indicating a first device, a time period, and a set of conditions is received. When the time period occurs, device data from one or more devices in the environment is used to determine whether the set of conditions is met. If the conditions are met, an instruction from a device outside of the environment is provided to the first device to cause the first device to enter a low power state, during which the device is no longer accessible to other devices outside of the environment. After a lapse of the time period, a change in conditions, or in response to manual input provided to the first device, the first device returns to an operational state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more memories storing computer-executable instructions; and one or more hardware processors to execute the computer-executable instructions to: provide a user interface to a user device, wherein the user interface is configured to receive user input that associates devices with corresponding time periods and conditions; receive, via the user interface, first user input indicating a first device in an environment, a first time period, and a first set of conditions for causing the first device to enter a low power state, wherein the first set of conditions includes one or more of a value associated with a unit of electrical power, a weather condition, or an event associated with provision of electrical power to the first device; determine occurrence of the first time period; determine device data from one or more of the first device or a second device in the environment; determine, based on the device data, a second set of conditions; determine correspondence between the first set of conditions and the second set of conditions; and at a first time, provide a first instruction to the first device from a device outside of the environment to cause the first device to: enter the low power state, wherein when in the low power state, the first device is inaccessible to communications from devices outside of the environment until a lapse of the first time period or receipt of manual input to the first device; at a second time subsequent to the first time and prior to the lapse of the first time period, enter an operational state; determine a third set of conditions at the second time; and based on correspondence between the third set of conditions and the first set of conditions, one or more of: enter the low power state or remain in the operational state.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine that the first device is inaccessible to communications from devices outside of the environment; determine a second device that is in communication with the first device, wherein the device data is determined from the second device; and provide the first instruction to the second device to cause the second device to provide the first instruction to the first device.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: receive second user input during the first time period to change the first device from the low power state to an operational state; generate a notification indicative of the correspondence between the first set of conditions and the second set of conditions; and provide the notification to one or more of the first device, the second device, a third device in the environment, or a fourth device outside of the environment.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine a quantity of electrical power associated with maintaining the first device in the low power state; generate a notification indicative of the quantity of electrical power; and provide the notification to one or more of the first device, the second device, a third device in the environment, or a fourth device outside of the environment.
5. A method comprising: receiving first user input indicating a first device in an environment and a first condition; determining occurrence of the first condition; and causing a first instruction to be provided from a device outside of the environment to the first device to cause the first device to: at a first time, enter a low power state, wherein the first device is inaccessible to devices outside of the environment when in the low power state until a lapse of a first time period; enter an operational state at a second time subsequent to the first time and prior to the lapse of the first time period; determine a second condition at the second time; and based on correspondence between the second condition and the first condition, one or more of: enter the low power state or remain in the operational state.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving second user input that indicates a third condition for causing the first device to enter the low power state, wherein the first instruction further causes the first device to: determine a difference between the third condition and the second condition; and remain in the operational state in response to the difference between the third condition and the second condition.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining environmental data from a device outside of the environment; and determining, based on the environmental data, one or more of: a quantity of electrical power consumption, a weather event, or an event associated with provision of electrical power to the first device, wherein one or more of the first condition or the second condition includes the one or more of the quantity of electrical power consumption, the weather event, or the event associated with the provision of electrical power to the first device.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving second user input to cause the first device to change from the low power state to the operational state; determining a quantity of electrical power consumption associated with the operational state of the first device; generating a notification indicative of the quantity of electrical power consumption; and providing the notification to one or more of the first device, a second device in the environment, or a third device outside of the environment.
9. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a second device in communication with the first device; and causing the second device to provide the first instruction to the first device to cause the first device to enter the low power state.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first user input further indicates the second device, the method further comprising: causing the second device to enter the low power state in response to the occurrence of the first condition.
11. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining proximity data indicative of one or more users within a portion of the environment; and determining, based on correspondence between the proximity data and threshold data, that a count of users within the portion of the environment is less than a threshold count, wherein the first device is caused to enter the low power state in response to the proximity data.
12. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining activity data indicative of use of one or more of the first device or a second device in communication with the first device; and determining, based on correspondence between the activity data and threshold data, that use of the one or more of the first device or the second device is less than a threshold quantity of use, wherein the first device is caused to enter the low power state in response to the activity data.
13. A system comprising: one or more memories storing computer-executable instructions; and one or more hardware processors to execute the computer-executable instructions to: access data indicating a first device in an environment and a first condition associated with the first device; determine occurrence of the first condition; and in response to the occurrence of the first condition, cause a first instruction to be provided from a device outside of the environment to the first device to cause the first device to: at a first time, enter a low power state, wherein the first device is inaccessible to devices outside of the environment when in the low power state; enter an operational state at a second time subsequent to the first time; determine a second condition at the second time; and based on correspondence between the second condition and the first condition, one or more of: enter the low power state or remain in the operational state.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: receive user input indicating a third condition for causing the first device to enter the low power state, wherein the first instruction further causes the first device to: determine a difference between the third condition and the second condition; and remain in the operational state in response to the difference.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine a second device in communication with the first device, wherein the computer-executable instructions to cause the first instruction to be provided to the first device include computer-executable instructions to cause the second device to provide the first instruction to the first device to cause the first device to enter the low power state.
16. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine activity data indicative of use of the first device; and determine, based on correspondence between the activity data and threshold data, that a quantity of use of the first device is less than a threshold quantity, wherein the first instruction is provided to the first device further in response to the activity data.
17. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine proximity data indicative of users proximate to the first device; and determine, based on correspondence between the proximity data and threshold data, that a count of users proximate to the first device is less than a threshold count, wherein the first instruction is provided to the first device further in response to the proximity data.
18. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: determine a change in a quantity of electrical power used by the first device; generate a notification indicative of the change; and provide the notification to one or more of the first device, a second device in the environment, or a third device outside of the environment.
19. The system of claim 13, further comprising computer-executable instructions to: receive user input to change the first device to the operational state; in response to the user input, change the first device from the low power state to the operational state; determine a quantity of electrical power consumption of the first device during the low power state; generate a notification indicative of the quantity of electrical power consumption; and in response to the user input, provide the notification to one or more of the first device, a second device in the environment, or a third device outside of the environment.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the first instruction further causes the first device to: in response to a difference between the first condition and the second condition at the second time, remain in the operational state; and in response to the second condition matching the first condition, enter the low power state.
</claims>
</document>
