<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W36/00,H04W4/02,H04W76/19,H04W88/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORNING OPTICAL COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGH JASPREET
CHEN, TSUNG-YI
WORTERS, PETER J
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68057312
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced features for a gateway coordinating multiple small cell radio access networks
</title>

<abstract>
A method of coordinating a plurality of radio access networks (RANs) includes aggregating, with a gateway, communications interfaces between a plurality of RANs and a packet core network through the gateway. A plurality of radio nodes (RNs) in each of the RANs is communicatively coupled to the gateway and to user equipment (UE) devices associated with the RNs in each of the RANs. The gateway also controls and coordinates mobility of the UE devices within and among the RANs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A gateway through which a plurality of radio access networks (RANs) communicate with a packet core network, comprising: a plurality of access controller modules to which as least one RAN is assigned, at least one of the plurality of access controller modules being configured to control the at least one RAN assigned thereto; a core network (CN) aggregator module configured as a single interface for communication between the plurality of access controller modules and the packet core network; a mobility anchor module at which all data plane traffic between user equipment (UE) devices attached to one of the plurality of RANs and the packet core network terminate; and a cluster manager module for assigning radio nodes (RNs) to the plurality of access controller modules and transferring RN assignments from one access controller module to a different access controller module under specified circumstances, wherein each of the plurality of access controller modules further includes an event detector configured to monitor for and detect anomalous and other events that occur across different ones of the RNs.
2. The gateway of claim 1, further comprising a centralized gateway module configured to receive the input data from the plurality of access controller modules and to monitor for and detect anomalous and other events that occur across different ones of the plurality of access controller modules.
3. The gateway of claim 2, wherein the centralized gateway module is further configured to receive from one or more of the plurality of access controller modules an indication that an anomalous or other event has potentially occurred.
4. The gateway of claim 1, wherein the CN aggregator module includes an encoder for compressing data packets in downstream user traffic destined for a common access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules and the common access controller module includes a decoder for decompressing the compressed data packets.
5. The gateway of claim 4, wherein the encoder is configured to compress packet header information in at least some of the data packets based at least in part on temporal correlations among consecutive ones of the data packets.
6. The gateway of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of access controller modules includes an encoder for compressing data packets in upstream user traffic to remove redundancies therein and the CN aggregator module includes a decoder for decompressing the data packets.
7. A gateway through which a plurality of radio access networks (RANs) communicate with a packet core network, comprising: a plurality of access controller modules to which as least one RAN is assigned, the plurality of access controller modules being configured to control the at least one RAN assigned thereto; a core network (CN) aggregator module configured as a single interface for all communication between the plurality of access controller modules and the packet core network; a mobility anchor module at which data plane traffic between user equipment (UE) devices attached to one of the plurality of RANs and the packet core network terminate; and a cluster manager module for assigning radio nodes (RNs) to the plurality of access controller modules and transferring RN assignments from one access controller module to a different access controller module, wherein at least one of the plurality of access controller modules includes an encoder for compressing data packets in upstream user traffic to remove redundancies therein and the CN aggregator module includes a decoder.
8. The gateway of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of access controller modules further includes an event detector configured to monitor for and detect anomalous and other events that occur across different ones of the RNs.
9. The gateway of claim 7, wherein at least one access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules controlling a first RAN of the plurality of RANs in which a first RN of the plurality of RNs is located is configured such that when IP connectivity to the first RN has been lost the at least one access controller module causes at least a second RN of the plurality of RNs to transmit an over-the-air diagnostic signal to the first RN.
10. A gateway through which a plurality of radio access networks (RANs) communicate with a packet core network, comprising: a plurality of access controller modules to which as least one RAN is assigned, each of the plurality of access controller modules being configured to control the at least one RAN assigned thereto; a core network (CN) aggregator module configured as a single interface for communication between the plurality of access controller modules and the packet core network; a mobility anchor module at which data plane traffic between user equipment (UE) devices attached to one of the plurality of RANs and the packet core network terminate; and a cluster manager module for assigning radio nodes (RNs) to the plurality of access controller modules and transferring RN assignments from one access controller module to a different access controller module under specified circumstances, wherein the CN aggregator module includes an encoder for compressing data packets in downstream user traffic destined for a common access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules.
11. The gateway of claim 10, wherein the common access controller module includes a decoder for decompressing the compressed data packets.
12. The gateway of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of access controller modules further includes an event detector configured to monitor for and detect anomalous and other events that occur across different ones of the RNs, the detecting being based at least in part on input data received by the plurality of access controller modules from the respective RNs that they control and coordinate, the input data specifying values for input variables that reflect operating conditions of the RNs.
13. The gateway of claim 12, wherein each event detector is further configured to receive from one or more of the RNs that it respectively controls and coordinates an indication that an anomalous or other event has potentially occurred.
14. The gateway of claim 12, further comprising a centralized gateway module configured to receive the input data from the plurality of access controller modules and to monitor for and detect anomalous and other events that occur across different ones of the plurality of access controller modules.
15. The gateway of claim 14, wherein the centralized gateway module is further configured to receive from one or more of the plurality of access controller modules an indication that an anomalous or other event has potentially occurred.
16. The gateway of claim 10, wherein at least one access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules controlling a first RAN of the plurality of RANs in which a first RN of the plurality of RNs is located is configured such that when IP connectivity to the first RN has been lost the at least one access controller module causes at least a second RN of the plurality of RNs to transmit an over-the-air diagnostic signal to the first RN.
17. A gateway through which a plurality of radio access networks (RANs) communicate with a packet core network, comprising: a plurality of access controller modules to which as least one RAN is assigned, at least one of the plurality of access controller modules being configured to control the at least one RAN assigned thereto; a core network (CN) aggregator module configured as a single interface for communication between the plurality of access controller modules and the packet core network; a mobility anchor module at which data plane traffic between user equipment (UE) devices attached to one of the plurality of RANs and the packet core network terminate; and a cluster manager module for assigning radio nodes (RNs) to the plurality of access controller modules and transferring RN assignments from one access controller module to a different access controller module, wherein at least one access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules controlling a first RAN of the plurality of RANs in which a first RN of the plurality of RNs is located is configured such that when IP connectivity to the first RN has been lost the at least one access controller module causes at least a second RN of the plurality of RNs to transmit an over-the-air diagnostic signal to the first RN.
18. The gateway of claim 17, wherein the CN aggregator module includes an encoder for compressing data packets in downstream user traffic destined for a common access controller module of the plurality of access controller modules and the common access controller module includes a decoder for decompressing the compressed data packets.
19. The gateway of claim 17, wherein at least one of the plurality of access controller modules includes an encoder for compressing data packets in upstream user traffic to remove redundancies therein and the CN aggregator module includes a decoder for decompressing the data packets.
</claims>
</document>
