<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/3827,H04R1/10,H04R5/033
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIKUMALA, SATHISH KUMAR
FILES, JACE W.
Sethi, Parminder Singh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatically adjusting a size of headphone cushions
</title>

<abstract>
A headphone may include two transducers, two cushions, one or more sensors, and an external microphone to measure an amount of noise in the external environment. The headphone may include a voice microphone to enable a user to participate in a call. Each cushion may have an associated motor to adjust a size of each cushion. A circuit located in the headphone may include a processor to receive sensor data from the sensors. The sensor data may be analyzed using machine learning to determine an activity in which the user is engaged and a location in which the headphones are located. The processor automatically adjusts aural characteristics of the headphone, including a size of each cushion, based at least in part on the activity, the location, the amount of noise present, a type of signal being sent to the transducers, and whether the user is participating in a call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A headphone comprising: a headband; a first housing attached to a first end of the headband, the first housing comprising: a first transducer; a first cushion; and a first motor to control a first size of the first cushion; a second housing attached to a second end of the headband that is opposite the first end, the second housing comprising: a second transducer; a second cushion; a second motor to control a second size of the second cushion; and a circuit located in the first housing, the circuit comprising: one or more processors; and a memory device to store instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining a type of audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer, wherein the type of audio signal comprises one of voice, music, or movie; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the type of audio signal.
2. The headphone of claim 1, further comprising: an external microphone to determine an amount of external noise; and wherein the operations further comprise: determining that the amount of external noise exceeds a predetermined amount; automatically inverting a phase of the external noise to create inverted noise; and adding a portion of the inverted noise to the audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer to perform noise cancellation.
3. The headphone of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors; determining a location of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the location.
4. The headphone of claim 3, the operations further comprising: determining an activity associated with a user of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the activity.
5. The headphone of claim 4, wherein: the activity is determined by using a machine learning algorithm to analyze the sensor data; and the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a global positioning satellite (GPS) sensor.
6. The headphone of claim 1, further comprising: a communications interface included in either the first housing or the second housing, wherein the communications interface includes at least one of: a wireless communications interface, or an electronic receptacle to accept a jack attached to a cable.
7. The headphone of claim 1, further comprising: a boom comprising a flexible metal rod, wherein a first end of the boom is attached to either the first housing or the second housing; and a voice microphone attached to a second end of the boom.
8. A headphone comprising: a first cushion; a first motor to adjust a first size of the first cushion; a second cushion; a second motor to adjust a second size of the second cushion; a circuit comprising: an external microphone; one or more processors; and a memory device to store instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining a type of audio signal being sent to a first transducer and a second transducer of a headphone; receiving an external audio signal from the external microphone; determining an amount of external noise present based on the external audio signal; and in response to determining that the amount of external noise exceeds a predetermined amount: automatically initiating noise cancellation; and based at least in part on the type of audio signal and the amount of external noise: automatically adjusting, using the first motor, the first size of the first cushion; and automatically adjusting, using the second motor, the second size of the second cushion.
9. The headphone of claim 8, wherein automatically initiating the noise cancellation comprises: inverting a phase of the external noise to create inverted noise; and adding a portion of the inverted noise to the audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer.
10. The headphone of claim 8, wherein: the circuit further comprises one or more sensors; and the operations further comprising: receiving sensor data from the one or more sensors; determining a location of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the location.
11. The headphone of claim 10, the operations further comprising: determining, using machine learning, an activity associated with a user of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the activity.
12. The headphone of claim 10, wherein: the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a global positioning satellite (GPS) sensor.
13. The headphone of claim 8, wherein: in the first size, the first cushion and the second cushion have supra-aural properties.
14. The headphone of claim 8, wherein: in the second size, the first cushion and the second cushion have circum-aural properties.
15. A headphone comprising: an external microphone; a headband; a first housing attached to a first end of the headband, the first housing comprising: a first transducer; a first cushion; and a first motor to control a first size of the first cushion; a second housing attached to a second end of the headband that is opposite the first end, the second housing comprising: a second transducer; a second cushion; a second motor to control a second size of the second cushion; and a circuit located in the first housing, the circuit comprising: one or more processors; and a memory device to store instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving external audio data from the external microphone; determining an amount of external noise based on the external audio data; determining that the amount of external noise exceeds a predetermined amount; automatically inverting a phase of the external noise to create inverted noise; adding a portion of the inverted noise to an audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer to perform noise cancellation; and automatically adjusting based at least in part on determining that the amount of external noise exceeds the predetermined amount: the first size of the first cushion; and the second size of the second cushion.
16. The headphone of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining a type of audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer, wherein the type of audio signal comprises one of voice, music, or movie; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the type of audio signal.
17. The headphone of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a global positioning satellite (GPS) sensor; determining a location of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the location.
18. The headphone of claim 17, the operations further comprising: determining an activity associated with a user of the headphone based at least in part on the sensor data; and automatically adjusting the first size of the first cushion and the second size of the second cushion based at least in part on the activity.
19. The headphone of claim 15, further comprising: a boom comprising a flexible metal rod, wherein a first end of the boom is attached to either the first housing or the second housing; and a voice microphone attached to a second end of the boom.
20. The headphone of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining, based on voice data received from a voice microphone, that a user of the headphone is participating in a call; dividing the audio signal being sent to the first transducer and the second transducer into three bands comprising a speech frequency band, a below speech frequency band, and an above speech frequency band; and reducing a volume of the below speech frequency band and the above speech frequency band.
</claims>
</document>
