<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/11,G06F17/27,G06F40/279,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNWAL, MANISH KUMAR
KUMAR, KUSHAL MOGATHAL
SUBA, ONZALI
DEY, ANINDYA SANKAR
SWAMINATHAN, NITHYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63166561
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated resume screening
</title>

<abstract>
Examples of the disclosure provide a system and method for obtaining one or more current candidate resumes and one or more past candidate resumes associated with a role and analyzing full text of the obtained resumes to identify one or more items. Weighted values are determined for the identified items using a dimension reduction technique, and a probability score is calculated for each of the obtained current candidate resumes based on selection data associated with the obtained past candidate resumes. A keyword score is calculated for each of the obtained current candidate resumes based on a presence of one or more keywords associated with the role in the obtained current candidate resumes. A final candidate score is generated for each of the obtained current candidate resumes based on the keyword score and the calculated probability score, and the generated final candidate scores are output in association with the obtained current candidate resumes to a user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automated resume screening, the system comprising: at least one memory; at least one processor coupled to the memory; a text analyzer, implemented on the at least one processor, that at least: obtains historical resumes, isolates historical terms via a full text analysis of the historical resumes; a weighted value calculator, implemented on the at least one processor, that at least: obtains historical candidate selection data associated with the historical resumes, based at least on some of the historical candidate selection data, determines weighted historical term values of at least some of the isolated historical terms; a machine learning engine, implemented on the at least one processor, that at least machine trains a predictive model based at least on some of the weighted historical term values; a keyword score calculator, implemented on the at least one processor, that at least: analyzes one or more current candidate resumes associated with a role, and based at least on some of the weighted historical term values, determines a keyword score of the one or more current candidate resumes, wherein the text analyzer further at least extracts current terms via a full text analysis of the one or more current candidate resumes, wherein the weighted value calculator further at least determines weighted current term values of at least some of the extracted current terms based at least on some of the historical candidate selection data, wherein the predictive model determines a probability score of each of the one or more current candidate resumes; and a resume screening module, implemented on the at least one processor, at least: generates a candidate score of each of the one or more current candidate resumes based at least on the weighted current term values and the probability score of each of the one or more current candidate resumes, generates a candidate report based at least one the candidate score, and provides the candidate report on a user interface, and receives new candidate selection data feedback indicating selection decisions of the one or more current candidate resumes, wherein the weighted value calculator updates the weighted historical term values based at least on some of the new candidate selection data feedback, and wherein the machine learning engine updates the predictive model based at least on some of the new candidate selection data feedback.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the weighted current values of the extracted current terms is further based at least on job description data corresponding to the role.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the weighted value calculator applies a dimension reduction technique to reduce a dimension of a term matrix, the term matrix comprising at least some of the isolated historical terms.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the text analyzer further at least stems at least some of the isolated historical terms.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the text analyzer updates the isolated historical terms based at least on some of the one or more current candidate resumes.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning engine updates the predictive model based at least on some of the one or more current candidate resumes.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the keyword score calculator determines one or more weighted current term values of the extracted current terms based further at least on keywords of a role dictionary.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the role dictionary is updated based at least on the one or more current candidate resumes.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the historical resumes are updated based at least on the one or more current candidate resumes.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the historical candidate selection data is updated based at least on the new candidate selection data feedback.
11. A method for automated resume screening comprising: obtaining, by a resume screening module implemented on at least one processor having a machine learning mechanism, one or more past candidate resumes associated with a role; isolating historical terms via a full text analysis of the one or more past candidate resumes; obtaining historical candidate selection data associated with the one or more past candidate resumes; based at least on some of the historical candidate selection data, determining weighted historical term values of at least some of the isolated historical terms; machine training a predictive model based at least on some of the weighted historical term values; obtaining one or more current candidate resumes associated with a role; extracting current terms via a full text analysis of the one or more current candidate resumes; based at least on some of the weighted historical term values, determining one or more weighted current term values of the extracted current terms; calculating a probability score for each of the one or more current candidate resumes based at least on the predictive model; generating a candidate score for each of the one or more current candidate resumes based at least on one or more weighted current term values and the probability score; outputting the generated candidate scores in association with the one or more current candidate resumes to a user interface; receiving new candidate selection data feedback indicating selection decisions of the one or more current candidate resumes; updating the weighted historical term values based at least on some of the new candidate selection data feedback; and updating, by the machine learning, the predictive model based at least on some of the new candidate selection data feedback.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the isolating the isolated historical terms includes: identifying a plurality of words from the one or more past candidate resumes; stemming one or more of the plurality of identified words; and batching the one or more stemmed words to identify the isolated historical terms for a term matrix.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising: updating the isolated historical terms based at least on some of the one or more current candidate resumes.
14. The method of claim 11 further comprising: updating, by the machine learning, the predictive model based at least on some of the one or more current candidate resumes.
15. The method of claim 11 further comprising: generating a first report indicating at least the probability score for each of the one or more current candidate resumes; and displaying the first report on the user interface, wherein the outputting the generated candidate scores includes at least displaying a second report indicating at least the generated candidate scores in association with the one or more current candidate resumes on the user interface.
16. One or more computer storage devices having computer-executable instructions stored thereon for machine training an automated resume screening device, which, on execution by a computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: obtaining historical data associated with a role for an entity, the historical data comprising one or more past candidate resumes and past candidate selection data; analyzing full text of the one or more past candidate resumes to identify a plurality of words; stemming one or more of the identified plurality of words and batch the stemmed words to identify one or more terms of the one or more past candidate resumes; generating a term matrix using the one or more identified terms, the term matrix identifying a value associated with individual terms of the one or more identified terms relative to individual resumes of the one or more past candidate resumes; applying a weighting function to the one or more identified terms of the term matrix using dimension reduction to form one or more weighted terms; associating past candidate selection data with the term matrix to classify the individual resumes of the one or more past candidate resumes; and generating candidate features associated with the role based on the one or more weighted terms and the classified individual resumes; machine training a predictive model based at least on some of the generated candidate features; obtaining one or more current candidate resumes associated with a role; calculating a probability score for each of the one or more current candidate resumes based at least on the predictive model; outputting the probability score in association with the one or more current candidate resumes to a user interface; receiving new candidate selection data feedback indicating selection decisions of the one or more current candidate resumes; and updating the machine training at least by updating the generated candidate features and the predictive model based at least on some of the new candidate selection data feedback.
17. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 16, wherein the applying the weighting function to the one or more identified terms reduces one or more dimensions of the term matrix using a truncated single value decomposition function.
18. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 16, wherein the analyzing the full text to identify the plurality of words further cause the computer to perform operations comprising: identifying punctuation, stop words, conjunctions, and non-alphanumeric data from the one or more past candidate resumes to identify the plurality of words; and removing the identified punctuation, stop words, conjunctions, and non-alphanumeric data from the one or more past candidate resumes prior to stemming the identified plurality of words.
19. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 16, wherein the analyzing the full text to identify the plurality of words further cause the computer to perform operations comprising: creating a role dictionary for the role; and calculating a proportion value for the one or more past candidate resumes based on an analysis of the full text against the role dictionary.
20. The one or more computer storage devices of claim 16, wherein the predictive model is dynamically updated based at least on some of the one or more current candidate resumes.
</claims>
</document>
