<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/35,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SULEMAN, KAHEER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54934597
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Server and method for classifying entities of a query
</title>

<abstract>
A server, method, and non-transitory computer readable medium for ranking a plurality of data sources are provided. The server includes a network interface, a memory storage unit and a processor. The method involves receiving an input query, identifying entities of the input query using conditional random fields, generating a normalized query and applying a support vector machine to the normalized query. The non-transitory computer readable medium is encoded with programming instructions to direct a processor to carry out the method.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server for generating an output command by classifying entities of an input query, the server comprising: a network interface for receiving the input query; a memory storage unit for storing the input query and for storing programming instructions; and a processor in communication with the network interface and the memory storage unit, the processor configured to: identify a first entity and a second entity in the input query using a conditional random field model, wherein the first entity and the second entity are distinct entities within a same entity type; generate a normalized query by replacing the first entity of the input query with a first generic identifier representing the same entity type and replacing the second entity of the input query with a second generic identifier representing the same entity type, wherein the first generic identifier and the second generic identifier are the same; determine a first feature for the first entity based on at least a first word within a first window of words associated with the first generic identifier in the normalized query; determine a second feature for the second entity based on at least a second word within a second window of words associated with the second generic identifier entity in the normalized query; determine, using a support vector machine model on the normalized query including the first and second generic identifiers, a first sub-entity type of the same entity type for the first entity based on the first feature and a second sub-entity type of the same entity type for the second entity based on the second feature, wherein the first sub-entity type and the second sub-entity type are distinct sub-entity types within the same entity type; and generate the output command in response to the input query, wherein the output command is generated based on at least the first entity belonging to the first sub-entity type and the second entity belonging to the second sub-entity type.
2. The server of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to extract the first entity and the second entity from the input query.
3. The server of claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to extract a first plurality of features associated with the first entity.
4. The server of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to extract the first plurality of features from the first window of words.
5. The server of claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to apply the support vector machine model to the first plurality of features.
6. The server of claim 5, wherein the first window of words has a predetermined first window size.
7. The server of claim 6, wherein the predetermined first window size of the first window of words and a second window size of the second window of words are the same.
8. The server of claim 6, wherein the predetermined first window size of the first window of words and a second window size of the second window of words are distinct.
9. The server of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to extract a second plurality of features associated with the second entity.
10. The server of claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to extract the second plurality of features from the second window of words.
11. The server of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to apply the support vector machine model to the second plurality of features.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the second window of words has a predetermined second window size.
13. The server of claim 12, wherein the predetermined second window size of the second window of words and a first window size of the first window of words are the same.
14. The server of claim 12, wherein the predetermined second window size of the second window of words and a first window size of the first windows of words are distinct.
15. The server of claim 12, wherein the predetermined second window size is the same as the predetermined first window size.
16. The server of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to apply the support vector machine model to multiple classes.
17. A method of generating an output command by classifying entities of an input query, the method comprising: receiving the input query; identifying a first entity and a second entity in the input query using a conditional random field model, wherein the first entity and the second entity are distinct entities within a same entity type; generating a normalized query by replacing the first entity of the input query with a first generic identifier representing the same entity type and replacing the second entity of the input query with a second generic identifier representing the same entity type, wherein the first generic identifier and the second generic identifiers are the same; determining a first feature for the first entity based on at least a first word within a first window of words associated with the first generic identifier in the normalized query; determining a second feature for the second entity based on at least a second word within a second window of words to associated with the second generic identifier in the normalized query; determining, using a support vector machine model on the normalized query including the first and second generic identifiers, a first sub-entity type of the same entity type for the first entity based on the first feature and a second sub-entity type of the same entity type for the second entity based on the second feature, wherein the first sub-entity type and the second sub-entity type are distinct sub-entity types within the same entity type; and generating the output command in response to the input query, wherein the output command is generated based on at least the first entity belonging to the first sub-entity type and the second entity belonging to the second sub-entity type.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising extracting the first entity and the second entity from the input query.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising extracting a first plurality of features associated with the first entity.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein extracting the first plurality of features comprises extracting the first plurality of features from the first window of words.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein using the support vector machine model on the normalized query comprises applying the support vector machine model to the first plurality of features.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the first window of words has a predetermined first window size.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the predetermined first window size of the first window of words and a second window size of the second window of words are distinct.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the predetermined first window size of the first window of words is adjustable to optimize performance.
25. The method of claim 19, further comprising extracting a second plurality of features associated with the second entity.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein extracting the second plurality of features comprises extracting the second plurality of features from the second window of words.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein using the support vector machine model to the normalized query comprises applying the support vector machine model to the second plurality of features.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the second window of words has a predetermined second window size.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the predetermined second window size of the second window of words and a first window size of the first window of words are the same.
30. The method of claim 28, wherein the predetermined second window size of the second window of words and a first window size of the first windows of words are distinct.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein the predetermined second window size is the same as the predetermined first window size.
32. The method of claim 17, wherein using the support vector machine model comprises applying the support vector machine model to multiple classes.
33. A non-transitory computer readable medium encoded with programming instructions for generating an output command by classifying entities of an input query, the codes for directing a processor to: receive the input query; identify a first entity and a second entity in the input query using a conditional random field model, wherein the first entity and the second entity are distinct entities within a same entity type; generate a normalized query by replacing the first entity of the input query with a first generic identifier representing the same entity type and replacing the second entity of the input query with a second generic identifier representing the same entity type, wherein the first generic identifier and the second generic identifier are the same; determine a first feature for the first entity based on at least a first word within a first window of words associated with the first generic identifier in the normalized query; determine a second feature of the second entity based on at least a second word within a second window of words associated with the second generic identifier in the normalized query; determine, using a support vector machine model on the normalized query including the first and second generic identifiers, a first sub-entity type of the same entity type for the first entity based on the first feature and a second sub-entity type of the same entity type for the second entity based on the second feature, wherein the first sub-entity type and the second sub-entity type are distinct sub-entity types within the same entity type; and generate the output command in response to the input query, wherein the output command is generated based on at least the first entity belonging to the first sub-entity type and the second entity belonging to the second sub-entity type.
</claims>
</document>
