<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F21/62,G06K9/00,H04L29/06,H04N1/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KNOWLEDGE INITIATIVES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSENBERG,BARR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69167279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-person authentication and validation controls for image sharing
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are methods and systems for multi-person authentication and validation systems for sharing of images. The multi-person authentication and validation system may identify the respective representations of one or more individuals captured in an image, and request authorization for sharing the image from the one or more individuals captured in the image. In some instances, the multi-person authentication and validation system may provide a different image version for sharing if at least one of the one or more individuals denies authorization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for using multi-person authentication and validation for sharing an image, comprising: (a) obtaining an image file of an image, wherein respective representations of one or more individuals are captured in the image, wherein the image file is associated with a control policy; (b) initiating an authentication and validation session upon a trigger event; (c) identifying, with aid of one or more processors executing one or more identity recognition algorithms, the one or more individuals captured in the image; (d) receiving a request to perform an action on the image file; (e) requesting authorization instructions from at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image to perform the action on the image file; and (f) based at least in part on the control policy and the authorization instructions received from the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image, allowing or denying the action to be performed on the file.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising (i) inserting a personal identity control key for the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image into the image file, wherein the control policy comprises one or more rules associated with the personal identity control key for the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image, and (ii) based at least in part on the authorization instructions, validating a satisfaction of the one or more rules in the control policy to perform the action on the image file.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more rules provide that the action can be performed on the image when each of the one or more individuals identified in the image provides authorization instructions.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more rules provide that the action can be performed on the image unless at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image denies authorization.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the image file to create a first image file version, wherein the first image file version comprises a processed image in which a first representation of a first user of the one or more individuals identified in the image is modified.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first representation is pixelated in the first image file version or has a lower resolution in the first image file version than in the original file or both.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising, in accordance with the control policy, allowing, modifying, or denying the action to be performed on the first image file version based at least in part on authorization instructions received from at least the first user or a second user of the one or more individuals who is empowered under the control policy to provide authorization.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising requesting authentication of the one or more individuals identified in the image prior to requesting authorization instructions from the one or more individuals identified in the image.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the authentication improves the accuracy of identification by the one or more identity recognition algorithms.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising requesting confirmation of identification from the one or more individuals identified in the image prior to requesting authorization instructions from the one or more individuals identified in the image.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the confirmation improves the accuracy of identification by the one or more identity recognition algorithms.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the authorization instructions are provided by a first user of the one or more individuals identified in the image, wherein the first user selects a representative image of the first user in the image on a graphical user interface with a user interactive device to provide the authorization instructions.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the action is a sharing action, downloading action, or deleting action.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the trigger event is a voluntary request submitted by a user, upon receipt or obtaining of the image file, upon attempt of the action on the image file, or upon receipt of a complaint on the image file.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the user is one of the one or more individuals or an individual submitting the request to perform the action on the image file.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a group of individuals in the one or more individuals, and identifying the remainder of the one or more individuals as bystanders.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising requesting authorization instructions from each of the group of individuals identified in the image to perform the action on the image file.
18. A computer-implemented system for sharing an image, comprising: one or more computer processors; and a memory, communicatively coupled to the one or more computer processors, including instructions executable by the one or more processors to: obtain an image file of an image, wherein respective representations of one or more individuals are captured in the image, wherein the image file is associated with a control policy; execute one or more identity recognition algorithms to identify the one or more individuals captured in the image; receive a request to perform an action on the image file; request authorization instructions from at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image to perform the action on the image file; and based at least in part on the control policy and the authorization instructions received from the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image, allow or deny the action to be performed on the image file.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the memory further comprises instructions executable by the one or more processors to (i) insert a personal identity control key for the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image into the image file, wherein the control policy comprises one or more rules associated with the personal identity control key for the at least one of the one or more individuals identified in the image, and (ii) based at least in part on the authorization instructions, validate a satisfaction of the one or more rules in the control policy to perform the action on the image file.
</claims>
</document>
