<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/713,H04L12/715,H04L12/723
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAJAJ, SANDEEP
PRABHU, VINAY
EVANS, SARAH ADELAIDE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65039061
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Controlling a software-defined network
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include receiving monitor data via the control plane from at least one device of a set of devices in the SDN. The method may further include generating a data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data. The method may also include determining a change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the data model. The method may include generating a policy, based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN. The method may further include sending the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating a set of instructions for a set of devices in a software-defined network (SDN) to monitor a set of characteristics; sending the set of instructions as a control message to the set of devices in the SDN via a control plane that is isolated from a packet forwarding path; receiving monitor data via the control plane from at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN, the monitor data being based on the at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN monitoring of the set of characteristics in substantially in real-time; generating a data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data comprising generating an approximation of a sensitivity score for a process, wherein the sensitivity score for the process is based on a prediction as to how sensitive the process is to changes in loss, latency and/or jitter; determining a change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the data model; generating an estimate on how the change affects the set of devices in the SDN; generating a policy, based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN comprising generating the policy to reduce the affect on the set of devices in the SDN below a threshold level; and sending the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN, wherein an execution of the policy at one or more of the set of devices in the SDN adjusts the monitor data to more closely match a template.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving additional monitor data after sending the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN; and updating the policy based on the additional monitor data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein updating the policy based on the additional monitor data comprises: generating a second data model based on the set of SDN parameters, the monitor data, and the additional monitor data; determining a second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the second data model; and updating the policy based on the second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data comprises simulating SDN performance characteristics based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN comprises using a random forest algorithm and historical data to estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN, wherein generating the data model based on the set of SDN parameters and the monitor data further comprises generating the data model based on an output of the random forest algorithm and an estimated cost function to determine expected cost of a different Service Level Agreement.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN includes a change to at least one data route path.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium that includes computer-readable instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processor to perform or control performance of operations comprising: generate a set of instructions for a set of devices in a software-defined network (SDN) to monitor a set of characteristics; send the set of instructions as a control message to the set of devices in the SDN via a control plane that is isolated from a packet forwarding path; receive monitor data via the control plane from at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN, the monitor data being based on the at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN monitoring of the set of characteristics substantially in real-time; generate a data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data comprising generate an approximation of a sensitivity score for a process, wherein the sensitivity score for the process is based on a prediction as to how sensitive the process is to changes in loss, latency and/or jitter; determine a change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the data model; generate an estimate on how the change affects the set of devices in the SDN; generate a policy, based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN comprising generating the policy to reduce the affect on the set of devices in the SDN below a threshold level; and send the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN, wherein an execution of the policy at one or more of the set of devices in the SDN adjusts the monitor data to more closely match a template.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, the operations further comprising: receive additional monitor data after sending the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN; and update the policy based on the additional monitor data.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein updating the policy based on the additional monitor data comprises: generate a second data model based on the set of SDN parameters, the monitor data, and the additional monitor data; determine a second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the second data model; and update the policy based on the second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein generating the data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data comprises simulating SDN performance characteristics based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein generating the estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN comprises using a random forest algorithm and historical data to estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN, wherein generating the data model based on the set of SDN parameters and the monitor data further comprises generating the data model based on an output of the random forest algorithm and an estimated cost function to determine expected cost of a different Service Level Agreement.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN includes a change to at least one data route path.
13. A system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors, the one or more processors are configured to perform operations comprising: generate a set of instructions for a set of devices in a software-defined network (SDN) to monitor a set of characteristics; send the set of instructions as a control message to the set of devices in the SDN via a control plane that is isolated from a packet forwarding path; receive monitor data via the control plane from at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN, the monitor data being based on the at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN monitoring of the set of characteristics substantially in real-time; generate a data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data comprising generate an approximation of a sensitivity score for a process, wherein the sensitivity score for the process is based on a prediction as to how sensitive the process is to changes in loss, latency and/or jitter; determine a change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the data model; generate an estimate on how the change affects the set of devices in the SDN; generate a policy, based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN comprising generating the policy to reduce the affect on the set of devices in the SDN below a threshold level; and send the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN, wherein an execution of the policy at one or more of the set of devices in the SDN adjusts the monitor data to more closely match a template.
14. The system of claim 13, the one or more processors being configured to perform further operations comprising: receive additional monitor data after sending the policy via the control plane to the set of devices in the SDN; and update the policy based on the additional monitor data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein when updating the policy based on the additional monitor data, the one or more processors are configured to perform operations comprising: generate a second data model based on the set of SDN parameters, the monitor data, and the additional monitor data; determine a second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN based on the second data model; and update the policy based on the second change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein when generating the data model based on a set of SDN parameters and the monitor data, the one or more processors being configured to perform further operations comprising simulate SDN performance characteristics based on the change for at least one device of the set of devices in the SDN.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein when generating the estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN, the one or more processors are configured to perform operations comprising using a random forest algorithm and historical data to estimate on how the change may affect the set of devices in the SDN, wherein when generating the data model based on the set of SDN parameters and the monitor data further, the one or more processors are configured to perform operations comprising generating the data model based on an output of the random forest algorithm and an estimated cost function to determine expected cost of a different Service Level Agreement.
</claims>
</document>
