<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRUHL DANIEL F.
DREWS, CLEMENS
FAGIN RONALD
CLARKSON, KENNETH L.
ALBA, ALFREDO
NAGARAJAN, MEENAKSHI
LEWIS, NEAL R.
RAMAKRISHNAN, CARTIC
MENDES, PABLO N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669611
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Efficient semi-supervised concept organization accelerated via an inequality process
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides generating a similarity matrix corresponding to an input collection including initializing, by a processor, a working set as a collection of a multiple items. Until the similarity matrix converges: receiving a seed for similarity for at least one pair of items of the multiple items, and obtaining a similarity value for all other item pairs using a Naive Triangle Inequality process. The similarity is generated with obtained similarity values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a similarity matrix corresponding to an input collection comprising: initializing, by a processor, a working set as a collection of a plurality of items; until the similarity matrix converges based on a particular test of convergence: receiving a seed for similarity for at least one pair of items of the plurality of items; and obtaining, using the processor, a similarity value for all other item pairs using a Naive Triangle Inequality process that uses a maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k) and a minimum distance matrix Dmin(i, k), determines a best guess matrix B and an uncertainty matrix U(i, j) from the minimum distance matrix Dmin (i, k) and the maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k), and determines a distance matrix D, wherein i, j and k are positive integers; swapping an upper bound value for Dmax and a lower bound value for Dmin upon Dmin(i, k)>Dmax(j, k); and generating, by the processor, the similarity matrix with obtained similarity values based on the Naive Triangle Inequality process.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the generated similarity matrix for clustering processing.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of items comprises one of words and phrases.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: searching, by the processor, for cells in the uncertainty matrix U(i, j) for a maximum uncertainty value, and randomly selecting a cell with the maximum uncertainty value; and updating, by the processor, corresponding cells for Dmin (i, j), Dmin (j, i), Dmax(i, j) and Dmax(j, i); wherein the seed for similarity for the at least one pair of items is received by the processor from a subject matter expert (SME) via a user interface in response to the random selection of the cell with the maximum uncertainty value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the similarity matrix comprises similarity values between items, and each cell in the similarity matrix represents the similarity between row and column items.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein cells in the distance matrix D represent distance between an item represented by a row and an item represented by a column.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the Naive Triangle Inequality process performs distance bound updates for cells in the similarity matrix for which a corresponding cell value in a Boolean matrix is set to a value representing a true state.
8. A computer program product for generating a similarity matrix corresponding to an input collection, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: initialize, by the processor, a working set as a collection of a plurality of items; until the similarity matrix converges: receive, by the processor, a seed for similarity for at least one pair of items of the plurality of items; and obtain, by the processor, a similarity value for all other item pairs using a Naive Triangle Inequality process that uses a maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k) and a minimum distance matrix Dmin(i, k), determines a best guess matrix B and an uncertainty matrix U(i, j) from the minimum distance matrix Dmin (i, k) and the maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k), and determines a distance matrix D, wherein i, j and k are positive integers; swap, by the processor, an upper bound value for Dmax and a lower bound value for Dmin upon Dmin(i, k)>Dmax(j, k); and generate, by the processor, the similarity matrix with obtained similarity values based on the Naive Triangle Inequality process.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions executable by the processor to further cause the processor to: provide, by the processor, the generated similarity matrix for clustering processing.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the plurality of items comprises one of words and phrases.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein: the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the processor to: search, by the processor, for cells in the uncertainty matrix U(i, j) for a maximum uncertainty value, and randomly selecting a cell with the maximum uncertainty value; and update, by the processor, corresponding cells for Dmin (i, j), Dmin (j, i), Dmax(i, j) and Dmax(j, i); and the seed for similarity for the at least one pair of items is received by the processor from a subject matter expert (SME) via a user interface in response to the random selection of the cell with the maximum uncertainty value.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the similarity matrix comprises similarity values between items, and each cell in the similarity matrix represents the similarity between row and column items.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein cells in the distance matrix D represent distance between an item represented by a row and an item represented by a column.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the Naive Triangle Inequality process performs distance bound updates for cells in the similarity matrix for which a corresponding cell value in a Boolean matrix is set to a value representing a true state.
15. An apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: initialize, by the processor, a working set as a collection of a plurality of items; until the similarity matrix converges: receive a seed for similarity for at least one pair of items of the plurality of items; and obtain a similarity value for all other item pairs using a Naive Triangle Inequality process that uses a maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k) and a minimum distance matrix Dmin(i, k), determines a best guess matrix B and an uncertainty matrix U(i, j) from the minimum distance matrix Dmin (i, k) and the maximum distance matrix Dmax(j, k), and determines a distance matrix D, wherein i, j and k are positive integers; swap an upper bound value for Dmax and a lower bound value for Dmin upon Dmin(i, k)>Dmax(j, k); and generate the similarity matrix with obtained similarity values based on the Naive Triangle Inequality process.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: provide the generated similarity matrix for clustering processing.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the plurality of items comprises one of words and phrases.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein: the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: search for cells in the uncertainty matrix U(i, j) for a maximum uncertainty value, and randomly selecting a cell with the maximum uncertainty value; and update corresponding cells for Dmin (i, j), Dmin (j, i), Dmax(i, j) and Dmax(j, i); the seed for similarity for the at least one pair of items is received by the processor from a subject matter expert (SME) via a user interface in response to the random selection of the cell with the maximum uncertainty value; the similarity matrix comprises similarity values between items; and each cell in the similarity matrix represents the similarity between row and column items.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the cells in the distance matrix D represent distance between an item represented by a row and an item represented by a column.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the Naive Triangle Inequality process performs distance bound updates for cells in the similarity matrix for which a corresponding value in a Boolean matrix is set to a value representing a true state.
</claims>
</document>
