<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/04,A61B5/0476,A61F11/06,A61N1/05,A61N1/36,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTICON
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUNNER, THOMAS
GLEERUP, THOMAS
PETERSEN, ELINE BORCH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60915182
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hearing aid system
</title>

<abstract>
A hearing aid system includes an electric audio signal input, an audio input signal processing unit that is configured to process electric audio input signals in the first processing mode or in the second processing mode and to provide an electric audio output signal, and an output transducer. The hearing aid system further includes an audio input signal analysing unit that is configured to continuously monitor the electric audio input signal as a function of time and to determine and to provide a number of audio signal values each representing a characteristic of the electric audio input signal at a given time instance. The hearing aid system further includes a plurality of electrodes that are configured to be brought into contact with the skin of a user and which are configured—when operationally mounted to receive an electric signal that rep-resents a user's brain activity and to provide a respective EEG-related signal. The hearing aid system further includes an EEG-related signal analysing unit that is configured to continuously monitor the EEG-related signal as a function of time and to determine and to provide a number of EEG-related values each representing the EEG-related signal at a given time instance, a memory unit which is configured to store a number of audio signal values such that a first history of respective audio signal values is created and/or to store a number of EEG-related values such that a second history of respective EEG-related values is created and a signal comparison unit that is configured to compare a current audio signal value with at least one preceding audio signal value of the first history to determine and to provide a deviation signal and/or to compare a current EEG-related value with at least one preceding EEG-related value of the second history to determine a measure of a user's current cognitive load and to provide a cognitive load representing output signal accordingly. The audio input signal processing unit is further configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode depending on the deviation signal and/or depending on the cognitive load representing output signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hearing aid system comprising an electric audio signal input for receiving an electric audio input signal, an audio input signal processing unit that is operationally connected to said electric audio signal input and that is configured to apply one of a first processing mode and at least a second processing mode wherein the audio input signal processing unit is configured to process the electric audio input signal in the first processing mode or in the at least second processing mode and to provide an electric audio output signal, an output transducer that is operationally connected to said audio input signal processing unit and that is configured to receive the electric audio output signal and to provide an output signal that can be perceived as sound by a user, an audio input signal analyzing unit that is configured to continuously monitor the electric audio input signal as a function of time and to determine and to provide a number of audio signal values each representing a characteristic of the electric audio input signal at a given time instance, a plurality of electrodes that are configured to be brought into contact with the skin of a user and which are configured—when operationally mounted—to receive an electric signal that represents a user's brain activity and to provide a respective EEG-related signal, an EEG-related signal analyzing unit that is configured to continuously monitor the EEG-related signal as a function of time and to determine and to provide a number of EEG-related values each representing the EEG-related signal at a given time instance, a memory unit that is configured to store a number of audio signal values such that a first history of respective audio signal values is created and/or to store a number of EEG-related values such that a second history of respective EEG-related values is created, a signal comparison unit that is configured to compare a current audio signal value with at least one preceding audio signal value of the first history to determine and to provide a deviation signal and/or to compare a current EEG-related value with at least one preceding EEG-related value of the second history to determine a measure of a user's current cognitive load and to provide a cognitive load representing output signal accordingly, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is further configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode depending on said deviation signal and/or depending on said cognitive load representing output signal.
2. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal analyzing unit is further configured to provide a plurality of audio signal values each representing a value of a parameter of the electric audio input signal at a given time instance.
3. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio signal analyzing unit is configured to continuously monitor the electric audio input signal and to continuously determine and provide the number of audio signal values during hearing aid system operation.
4. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the EEG-related signal analyzing unit is configured to continuously monitor the EEG-related signal and to continuously determine and provide the number of EEG-related values during hearing aid system operation.
5. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode depending on whether the magnitude of the current EEG-related value is smaller than the magnitude of at least one preceding EEG-related value stored in the second history or not.
6. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode depending on whether said EEG-related signal analyzing unit detects a breakdown of alpha activity.
7. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode depending on whether the determined deviation signal indicates an increase in the listening task difficulty.
8. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is configured to apply the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode based on a comparison of the cognitive load representing output signal and the deviation signal.
9. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein a processing mode comprises a noise-reduction algorithm and/or activating or deactivating a directionality of the input transducer.
10. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the signal comparison unit is further configured to determine whether or not the measure of a user's current cognitive is increased or decreased after a change of a processing mode and to provide a signal comparison unit output signal accordingly.
11. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the audio input signal processing unit is further configured to iteratively adapt the applied processing mode to a hearing situation based on said deviation signal and/or based on said cognitive load representing output signal.
12. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein a processing mode comprises an evolutionary processing algorithm that is configured to adapt the processing of said electric audio input signal to specific hearing situations based on said deviation signal and/or based on said cognitive load representing output signal.
13. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, further comprising a transmitter that is configured to transmit at least information about said electric audio output signal and/or the applied processing mode to an external device or to an external system.
14. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, further comprising a receiver that is configured to receive at least a hearing aid setting and/or a processing algorithm from an external device or from an external system such that the received hearing aid setting and/or the processing algorithm can be applied for processing said electric audio input signal in said audio input signal processing unit.
15. A hearing aid system according to claim 1, wherein the hearing aid system is a cochlear implant, a brainstem implant, hearing instrument, a hearing aid, a bone conduction hearing aid, a headset, an earphone, an ear protection device, an active ear protection system, a handsfree telephone system, a mobile telephone, a teleconferencing system, a public address system, a karaoke system, a classroom amplification systems or a combination thereof.
16. A method for processing an electric audio input signal comprising receiving an electric audio input signal, processing the electric audio input signal in a first processing mode or in an at least second processing mode and providing an electric audio output signal, continuously monitoring the electric audio input signal as a function of time and determining and providing a number of audio signal values each representing a characteristic of the electric audio input signal at a given time instance, receiving an electric signal that represents a user's brain activity and providing a respective EEG-related signal, continuously monitoring the EEG-related signal as a function of time and determining and providing a number of EEG-related values each representing the EEG-related signal at a given time instance, storing a number of audio signal values such that a first history of respective audio signal values is created and/or storing a number of EEG-related values such that a second history of respective EEG-related values is created, comparing a current audio signal value with at least one preceding audio signal value of the first history to determine and to provide a deviation signal and/or comparing a current EEG-related value stored in the memory unit with at least one preceding EEG-related value of the second history to determine a measure of a user's current cognitive load and to provide a cognitive load representing output signal accordingly, wherein the method further comprises applying the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode based on said deviation signal and/or based on said cognitive load representing output signal.
17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the method further comprises applying the first processing mode or the at least second processing mode based on said deviation signal and/or based on said cognitive load representing output signal or a combination of the first processing mode and the at least second processing mode.
18. A method according to claim 16, comprising evaluating whether or not the magnitude of the measure of a user's current cognitive load is increased or decreased after a change of a processing mode.
19. A method according to claim 16, comprising iteratively adapting the applied processing mode to a hearing situation based on said deviation signal and/or based on said cognitive load representing output signal.
20. A data processing system comprising a processor and program code means adapted to cause the processor to perform the steps of the method of claim 16.
</claims>
</document>
