<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/46,G06T5/50,H04N5/235
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED NEW TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DERAKHSHANI, REZA R.
PASULA, RAGHUNANDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607604
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Specular reflection reduction using polarized light sources
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating a composite image includes receiving a first image that includes an eyeglass lens illuminated by a first illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a first polarization state, and receiving a second image that includes the eyeglass lens illuminated by a second illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a second polarization state. The second polarization state is different from the first polarization state, and the second illumination source is spatially separated from the first illumination source. The method also includes identifying, in the first image, a first portion that represents a reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens, and generating the composite image in which the first portion is replaced by a corresponding second portion from the second image. The first portion and the second portion represent substantially a same portion of the eyeglass lens.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a composite image from multiple images, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processing devices, a first image that includes an eyeglass lens, wherein the eyeglass lens is illuminated by a first illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a first polarization state; receiving, by the one or more processing devices, a second image that includes the eyeglass lens, wherein the eyeglass lens is illuminated by a second illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a second polarization state, wherein: the first illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the first polarization state during a first time period, and the second illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the second polarization state during a second time period that is at least partially non-overlapping with the first time period, the second polarization state is different from the first polarization state, and the second illumination source is spatially separated from the first illumination source; identifying, by the one or more processing devices in the first image, a first portion that represents a reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens; identifying, by the one or more processing devices in the second image, a second portion corresponding to the first portion of the first image, wherein: the second portion does not represent a reflection of the second illumination source on the eyeglass lens, and the first portion and the second portion represent a same portion of the eyeglass lens; and generating, by the one or more processing devices, the composite image in which the first portion is replaced by the corresponding second portion from the second image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first polarization state is substantially orthogonal to the second polarization state.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a biometric authentication based on the composite image.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, in the second image, a third portion that represents a reflection of the second illumination source on the eyeglass lens; and generating, by the one or more processing devices, a second composite image in which the third portion is replaced by a corresponding fourth portion from the first image, wherein the third portion and the fourth portion represent a same portion of the eyeglass lens.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising controlling at least one of: (i) a first polarizer disposed at the first illumination source and (ii) a second polarizer disposed at the second illumination source such that the reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens and a reflection of the second illumination source on the eyeglass lens are at different locations.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of (i) the first polarization state and (ii) the second polarization state is adjusted based on an estimate of a strength of reflection associated with the reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a wavelength associated with at least one of (i) the first illumination source and (ii) the second illumination source is adjusted based on an estimate of a strength of reflection associated with the reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens.
8. An imaging system comprising: a first illumination source controllable to radiate electromagnetic radiation of multiple polarization states; a second illumination source disposed spatially separated from the first illumination source, the second illumination source controllable to radiate electromagnetic radiation of multiple polarization states; and one or more processing devices that: receive a first image including a subject captured under illumination by the first illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a first polarization state, receive a second image including the subject under illumination by the second illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a second polarization state different from the first polarization state, wherein the first illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the first polarization state during a first time period, and the second illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the second polarization state during a second time period that is at least partially non-overlapping with the first time period, identify, in the first image, a first portion that represents a reflection of the first illumination source, identify, in the second image, a second portion corresponding to the first portion of the first image, wherein: the second portion does not represent a reflection of the second illumination source on the subject, and the first portion and the second portion represent a same portion of the subject, and generate a composite image in which the first portion is replaced by the corresponding second portion from the second image.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first polarization state is substantially orthogonal to the second polarization state.
10. The system of claim 8, further comprising at least one camera that captures the first and second images.
11. The system of claim 8, further comprising an authentication engine that processes the composite image to perform a biometric authentication process to regulate access to a secure system.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processing devices are configured to: identify, in the second image, a third portion that represents a reflection of the second illumination source; and generate a second composite image in which the third portion is replaced by a corresponding fourth portion from the first image, wherein the third portion and the fourth portion represent a same portion of the subject.
13. The system of claim 8, further comprising: at least one of: (i) a first polarizer disposed at the first illumination source and (ii) a second polarizer disposed at the second illumination source.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising at least one motor that controls one or more of the first and second polarizers such that the reflection of the first illumination source on the subject and a reflection of the second illumination source on the subject are at different locations.
15. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of (i) the first polarization state and (ii) the second polarization state is adjusted based on an estimate of a strength of reflection associated with the reflection of the first illumination source.
16. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of (i) the first illumination source and (ii) the second illumination source is a multispectral source controllable to radiate illumination at multiple different wavelengths.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein a wavelength associated with at least one of (i) the first illumination source and (ii) the second illumination source is adjusted based on an estimate of a strength of reflection associated with the reflection of the first illumination source.
18. One or more non-transitory machine-readable storage devices having encoded thereon computer readable instructions for causing one or more processing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving a first image that includes an eyeglass lens, wherein the eyeglass lens is illuminated by a first illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a first polarization state; receiving a second image that includes the eyeglass lens, wherein the eyeglass lens is illuminated by a second illumination source radiating electromagnetic radiation in a second polarization state, wherein: the first illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the first polarization state during a first time period, and the second illumination source radiates the electromagnetic radiation in the second polarization state during a second time period that is at least partially non-overlapping with the first time period, the second polarization state is different from the first polarization state, and the second illumination source is spatially separated from the first illumination source; identifying, in the first image, a first portion that represents a reflection of the first illumination source on the eyeglass lens; identifying, in the second image, a second portion corresponding to the first portion of the first image, wherein: the second portion does not represent a reflection of the second illumination source on the eyeglass lens, and the first portion and the second portion represent a same portion of the eyeglass lens; and generating a composite image in which the first portion is replaced by the corresponding second portion from the second image.
</claims>
</document>
