<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06F15/18,G06N20/00,G06N5/00,G06N5/04,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HAMLING; DANIEL T.
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAMLING; DANIEL T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64692525
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing manufacturing capacity plan performance
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are presented for implementing predictive models that learn from real-time manufacturing capacity plan performance data to continually improve the accuracy of generated capacity plans. Instances of a plan performance predictive model are generated in response to receiving then-current sets of capacity plan parameters, predicted plan performance parameters, and measured plan performance parameters that correspond to various capacity plans implemented at a manufacturing facility. Modeled plan parameters produced by the continually adjusted instances of the plan performance predictive model are used to generate candidate capacity plans with progressively more accurate predicted plan performance and/or overall behavior. The candidate capacity plans are analyzed at a user device to facilitate selection of a capacity plan to implement at the manufacturing facility.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing manufacturing capacity plan performance, the method performed by at least one computer and comprising: identifying at least one manufacturing facility that operates in accordance with one or more capacity plans; receiving one or more capacity plan parameters, the one or more capacity plan parameters describing at least one of the one or more capacity plans associated with the at least one manufacturing facility; receiving one or more measured plan performance parameters, the one or more measured plan performance parameters describing performance characteristics of the at least one of the one or more capacity plans; generating at least one plan performance predictive model derived from at least one of, the one or more capacity plan parameters, or the one or more measured plan performance parameters, the at least one plan performance predictive model characterized by one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; determining at least one modeled plan parameter based at least in part on the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; and generating one or more candidate capacity plans based at least in part on the modeled plan parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more predicted plan performance parameters, the one or more predicted plan performance parameters corresponding to the at least one of the one or more capacity plans.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: exposing at least one of the one or more predicted plan performance parameters to the at least one plan performance predictive model to determine at least one of, the modeled plan parameter, or at least one of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: comparing at least one of the one or more predicted plan performance parameters to at least one of the one or more measured plan performance parameters.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting at least one selected capacity plan from the one or more candidate capacity plans.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: submitting one or more selected capacity plan parameters to implement the at least one selected capacity plan at the at least one manufacturing facility.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting at least one of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters based at least in part on one of, one or more heuristics, or one or more machine learning techniques.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more candidate capacity plans are based at least in part on at least one of, one or more planning scenario settings, one or more forecasted demand statements, one or more production requirements attributes, one or more capacity planning algorithms, or one or more of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more measured plan performance parameters correspond to one or more capacity components associated with the at least one manufacturing facility.
10. A computer readable medium, embodied in a non-transitory computer readable medium, the non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform a set of acts for managing manufacturing capacity plan performance, the set of acts comprising: identifying at least one manufacturing facility that operates in accordance with one or more capacity plans; receiving one or more capacity plan parameters, the one or more capacity plan parameters describing at least one of the one or more capacity plans associated with the at least one manufacturing facility; receiving one or more measured plan performance parameters, the one or more measured plan performance parameters describing performance characteristics of the at least one of the one or more capacity plans; generating at least one plan performance predictive model derived from at least one of, the one or more capacity plan parameters, or the one or more measured plan performance parameters, the at least one plan performance predictive model characterized by one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; determining at least one modeled plan parameter based at least in part on the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; and generating one or more candidate capacity plans based at least in part on the modeled plan parameter.
11. The computer readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: generating one or more predicted plan performance parameters, the one or more predicted plan performance parameters corresponding to the at least one of the one or more capacity plans.
12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: exposing at least one of the one or more predicted plan performance parameters to the at least one plan performance predictive model to determine at least one of, the modeled plan parameter, or at least one of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: comparing at least one of the one or more predicted plan performance parameters to at least one of the one or more measured plan performance parameters.
14. The computer readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: selecting at least one selected capacity plan from the one or more candidate capacity plans.
15. The computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: submitting one or more selected capacity plan parameters to implement the at least one selected capacity plan at the at least one manufacturing facility.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions which, when stored in memory and executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform acts of: adjusting at least one of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters based at least in part on one of, one or more heuristics, or one or more machine learning techniques.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the one or more candidate capacity plans are based at least in part on at least one of, one or more planning scenario settings, one or more forecasted demand statements, one or more production requirements attributes, one or more capacity planning algorithms, or one or more of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the one or more measured plan performance parameters correspond to one or more capacity components associated with the at least one manufacturing facility.
19. A system for managing manufacturing capacity plan performance, the system comprising: a storage medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions; and one or more processors that execute the sequence of instructions to cause the one or more processors to perform a set of acts, the set of acts comprising, identifying at least one manufacturing facility that operates in accordance with one or more capacity plans; receiving one or more capacity plan parameters, the one or more capacity plan parameters describing at least one of the one or more capacity plans associated with the at least one manufacturing facility; receiving one or more measured plan performance parameters, the one or more measured plan performance parameters describing performance characteristics of the at least one of the one or more capacity plans; generating at least one plan performance predictive model derived from at least one of, the one or more capacity plan parameters, or the one or more measured plan performance parameters, the at least one plan performance predictive model characterized by one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; determining at least one modeled plan parameter based at least in part on the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters; and generating one or more candidate capacity plans based at least in part on the modeled plan parameter.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the one or more candidate capacity plans are based at least in part on at least one of, one or more planning scenario settings, one or more forecasted demand statements, one or more production requirements attributes, one or more capacity planning algorithms, or one or more of the one or more plan performance predictive model parameters.
</claims>
</document>
