<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/12,E21B49/00,G01N24/08,G01R33/3415,G01R33/38,G01R33/383,G01V11/00,G01V3/20,G01V3/32,G01V5/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, SONGHUA
LI, LILONG
REIDERMAN, ARCADY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58424044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Logging-while-drilling tool with interleaved instruments
</title>

<abstract>
Logging-while-drilling (LWD) tools may include multiple instruments interleaved into a compact configuration in a single drill string section that may be capable of nuclear magnetic resonance, resistivity, porosity, gamma density measurements, or any combination thereof. For example, a LWD tool may include a drill collar section containing: a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) electronics module and an NMR sensor module interleaved with a nuclear source and at least one nuclear detector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A logging-while-drilling (LWD) tool comprising: a drill collar section containing: (1) a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) electronics module and (2) an NMR sensor module separate and apart from the NMR electronics module and in which a nuclear source and at least one nuclear detector are interleaved between one or more magnets within the NMR sensor module and completely enclosed within the NMR sensor module.
2. The LWD tool of claim 1 further comprising: a gamma density module contained by the drill collar section.
3. The LWD tool of claim 1 further comprising: a resistivity receiver module contained by the drill collar section.
4. The LWD tool of claim 1 further comprising: a gamma density module and a resistivity receiver module contained by the drill collar section.
5. The LWD tool of claim 4, wherein the resistivity receiver module comprises a z-direction resistivity receiver and an xor y-direction resistivity receiver, and wherein the z-direction resistivity receiver, the xor y-direction resistivity receiver, the gamma density module, the NMR electronics module, and the NMR sensor module each contained in and axially positioned in order along the drill collar section.
6. The LWD tool of claim 4, wherein the resistivity receiver module comprises a z-direction resistivity receiver and an xor y-direction resistivity receiver, and wherein the gamma density module, the NMR electronics module, the NMR sensor module, the z-direction resistivity receiver, and the xor y-direction resistivity receiver are each contained in and axially positioned in order along the drill collar section.
7. The LWD tool of claim 4, wherein at least a portion of the NMR electronics module, the NMR sensor module, the first resistivity receiver module, the second resistivity receiver module, or a combination thereof are axially disposed along the drill collar section between the nuclear source and the at least one nuclear detector and the gamma density module.
8. The LWD tool of claim 4, wherein the gamma density module is at least about five feet from the nuclear source and the at least one nuclear detector.
9. The LWD tool of claim 1 further comprising a first resistivity receiver module, a gamma density module, and a second resistivity receiver module, wherein the first resistivity receiver module investigates sensitive volumes at a deeper depth into a surrounding formation as compared to the second resistivity receiver module.
10. The LWD tool of claim 9, wherein at least a portion of the nuclear source and the at least one nuclear detector, the gamma density module, or a combination thereof are disposed along the drill collar section between first resistivity receiver module and the NMR sensor module.
11. The LWD tool of claim 1, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved with the nuclear source and two nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to two transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet, a first nuclear detector, a fourth magnet, and a second nuclear detector.
12. The LWD tool of claim 1, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved with the nuclear source and two nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to two transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet having a first nuclear detector radially adjacent thereto, and a second nuclear detector, wherein the third magnet has a smaller diameter than the first magnet and the central magnet.
13. The LWD tool of claim 1, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved with the nuclear source and two nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to two transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet having a first nuclear detector radially adjacent thereto, and a second nuclear detector, wherein a portion of the third magnet has a smaller diameter than the first magnet and the central magnet and the first nuclear detector is positioned radially adjacent to the portion.
14. A logging-while-drilling (LWD) tool comprising: a drill collar section containing: a resistivity receiver module, a gamma density module, (1) a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) electronics module disposed in the logging-while drilling tool, and (2) an NMR sensor module separate and apart from the NMR electronics module and in which a nuclear source and at least one nuclear detector are interleaved between one or more magnets within the NMR sensor module within the NMR sensor module, wherein the NMR sensor module includes at least one transversal dipole antenna and a monopole antenna in a configuration for obtaining azimuthally selective NMR, resistivity, nuclear, and gamma density measurements.
15. The LWD tool of claim 14, wherein the resistivity receiver module comprises a z-direction resistivity receiver and a xor y-direction resistivity receiver, and wherein the z-direction resistivity receiver, the xor y-direction resistivity receiver, the gamma density module, the NMR electronics module, and the NMR sensor module interleaved with a nuclear source and nuclear detectors are each contained in and positioned in order axially along the drill collar section.
16. The LWD tool of claim 14, wherein the gamma density module is at least about five feet from the nuclear source and the at least one nuclear detector.
17. The LWD tool of claim 14, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved 1Nith the nuclear source and bNo nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to two transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet, a first nuclear detector, a fourth magnet, and a second nuclear detector.
18. The LWD tool of claim 14, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved with the nuclear source and two nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to bNo transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet having a first nuclear detector radially adjacent thereto, and a second nuclear detector, wherein the third magnet has a smaller diameter than the first magnet and the central magnet.
19. The L\ND tool of claim 14, wherein the NMR sensor module is interleaved with the nuclear source and two nuclear detectors and comprises, in order axially along the drill collar section: a first magnet, a longitudinal-dipole antennae, a central magnet coupled to two transversal dipole antennae, the nuclear source, a third magnet having a first nuclear detector radially adjacent thereto, and a second nuclear detector, wherein a portion of the third magnet has a smaller diameter than the first magnet and the central magnet and the first nuclear detector is positioned radially adjacent to the portion.
20. A system comprising: a drill bit attached to the distal end of the drill string; a logging while drilling (LWD) tool disposed along the drill string, the LWD tool comprising a drill string section containing: (1) a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) electronics module and (2) an NMR sensor module separate and apart from the NMR electronics module and in which a nuclear source and at least one nuclear detector are interleaved between one or more magnets within the NMR sensor module and completely enclosed within the NMR sensor module; and a pump operably connected to the drill string for circulating the drilling fluid through the drill string to an annulus defined by the drill string and the wellbore.
</claims>
</document>
