<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/51,G06F16/583,G06F16/901,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIGAL, LEONID
FU, YANWEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61687989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Robust classification by pre-conditioned lasso and transductive diffusion component analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for identifying and filtering outliers from a sample set of data prior to training a classifier on an object using the sample set. A data set including a plurality of samples used to train a classification model is retrieved. The samples in the data set have a feature dimensionality. A graph of the data set is built. Each node in the graph corresponds to a sample in the data set and edges connecting the nodes correspond to a measure of similarity between the nodes. The feature dimensionality of the sample data set is reduced based on a topology of the graph. One or more outliers in the data set are identified based on the reduced feature dimensionality.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of outlier detection and removal for classifier training, the computer-implemented method comprising: retrieving a data set including a plurality of samples used to train a classification model, wherein the samples in the data set have an original feature dimensionality; building a graph data structure of the data set, the graph data structure comprising a transductive graph that is a k-nearest-neighbor graph having a plurality of nodes, each node of which corresponds to a respective sample of the plurality of samples, wherein an edge connecting first and second nodes of the plurality of nodes corresponds to a measure of similarity between the first and second nodes, wherein building the graph data structure comprises defining a similarity weight between nodes as a function of an inner product of a plurality of features of the nodes with a free parameter; determining, by operation of one or more computer processors, a reduced feature dimensionality, relative to the original feature dimensionality, of the data set using a transductive diffusion component analysis over the plurality of nodes of the graph data structure, wherein determining the reduced feature dimensionality of the data set includes determining a softmax approximation over the transductive graph; identifying, based on the reduced feature dimensionality, one or more outliers in the plurality of samples using a pre-conditioned least absolute shrinkage and selection operator, wherein the one or more outliers are identified based on a determined regularization path of the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; modifying the plurality of samples by removing the identified one or more outliers from the plurality of samples; training the classification model on an inlier object using the modified plurality of samples; and classifying the inlier object using the trained classification model.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more outliers comprises: ordering the plurality of samples according to a likelihood that the sample is an outlier based on the reduced feature dimensionality.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the classification model is trained to identify the inlier object and wherein each outlier does not correspond to an instance of the inlier object.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data set is retrieved from a web-based image service.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the web-based image service labels each sample in the data set with an indication referencing the inlier object.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computer-implemented method is performed by an image classification tool that includes a classifier and an outlier detector, the classifier comprising the classification model; wherein the outlier detector is configured to identify and remove the one or more outliers from the plurality of samples; wherein the classifier is configured to classify the inlier object; wherein the outlier detector includes a plurality of components including an extraction component, a feature reduction component, an evaluation component, and a filter component; wherein the extraction component is configured to retrieve the data set including the plurality of samples; wherein the feature reduction component is configured to determine the reduced feature dimensionality of the data set; wherein the evaluation component is configured to identify the one or more outliers in the plurality of samples; and wherein the filter component is configured to remove the one or more outliers from the plurality of samples.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the image classification tool is operatively connected, via a network, to a web-based image service and to a browser application; wherein the data set is retrieved from the web-based image service and the browser application; wherein the image classification tool, the image service, and the browser application each execute on a respective, distinct computer of a plurality of computers; wherein the web-based image service is configured to label each sample in the data set with an indication referencing the inlier object; and wherein each sample comprises a respective, graphical image.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computer-implemented method is performed by an image classification tool, the image classification tool including the classification model and an outlier detector.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable to perform an operation of outlier detection and removal for classifier training, the operation comprising: retrieving a data set including a plurality of samples used to train a classification model, wherein the samples in the data set have an original feature dimensionality; building a graph data structure of the data set, the graph data structure comprising a transductive graph that is a k-nearest-neighbor graph having a plurality of nodes, each node of which corresponds to a sample of the plurality of samples, wherein an edge connecting first and second nodes of the plurality of nodes corresponds to a measure of similarity between the first and second nodes, wherein building the graph data structure comprises defining a similarity weight between nodes as a function of an inner product of a plurality of features of the nodes with a free parameter; determining, by operation of one or more computer processor when executing the instructions, a reduced feature dimensionality, relative to the original feature dimensionality, of the data set using a transductive diffusion component analysis over the plurality of nodes of the graph data structure, wherein determining the reduced feature dimensionality of the data set includes determining a softmax approximation over the transductive graph; and identifying, based on the reduced feature dimensionality, one or more outliers in the plurality of samples using a pre-conditioned least absolute shrinkage and selection operator, wherein the one or more outliers are identified based on a determined regularization path of the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; modifying the plurality of samples by removing the identified one or more outliers from the plurality of samples; training the classification model on an inlier object using the modified plurality of samples; and classifying the inlier object using the trained classification model.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein identifying the one or more outliers comprises: ordering the plurality of samples according to a likelihood that the sample is an outlier based on the reduced feature dimensionality.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the classification model is trained to identify the inlier object and wherein each outlier does not correspond to an instance of the inlier object.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the data set is retrieved from a web-based image service.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the web-based image service labels each sample in the data set with an indication referencing the inlier object.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operation is performed by an image classification tool, the image classification tool including the classification model and an outlier detector.
15. A system of outlier detection and removal for classifier training, the system comprising: one or more computer processors; and a memory storing program code which, when executed on the one or more computer processors, performs an operation comprising: retrieving a data set including a plurality of samples used to train a classification model, wherein the samples in the data set have an original feature dimensionality; building a graph data structure of the data set, the graph data structure comprising a transductive graph that is a k-nearest-neighbor graph having a plurality of nodes, each node of which corresponds to a respective sample of the plurality of samples, wherein an edge connecting first and second nodes of the plurality of nodes corresponds to a measure of similarity between the first and second nodes, wherein building the graph data structure comprises defining a similarity weight between nodes as a function of an inner product of a plurality of features of the nodes with a free parameter; determining a reduced feature dimensionality, relative to the original feature dimensionality, of the data set using a transductive diffusion component analysis over the plurality of nodes of the graph data structure, wherein determining the reduced feature dimensionality of the data set includes determining a softmax approximation over the transductive graph; and identifying, based on the reduced feature dimensionality, one or more outliers in the plurality of samples using a pre-conditioned least absolute shrinkage and selection operator, wherein the one or more outliers are identified based on a determined regularization path of the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator; modifying the plurality of samples by removing the identified one or more outliers from the plurality of samples; training the classification model on an inlier object using the modified plurality of samples; and classifying the inlier object using the trained classification model.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein identifying the one or more outliers comprises: ordering the plurality of samples according to a likelihood that the sample is an outlier based on the reduced feature dimensionality.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the classification model is trained to identify the inlier object and wherein each outlier does not correspond to an instance of the inlier object.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the data set is retrieved from a web-based image service and wherein the web-based image service labels each sample in the data set with an indication referencing the inlier object.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the data set is retrieved from a web-based image service.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the operation is performed by an image classification tool, the image classification tool including the classification model and an outlier detector.
</claims>
</document>
