<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/54,G06F16/583,G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERGSMA, SHANE ANTHONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59680194
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic thumbnail selection for search results
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is drawn to methods and systems for providing a representative image for a search result in a search result listing of a searching system. At least one search result based on a search query is received. Each search result has a plurality of images. For each search result, a similarity score for at least some of the images is computed, based on a similarity with the search query. Then, at least one of the images is selected, on the basis of the similarity score, and the selected image is assigned as the representative image of the search result. A number of modification steps may be performed on the search result prior to computing the similarity score. The search result and assigned representative image may also be presented in a search result listing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, a search result based on a search query, the search result comprising a plurality of images, the search query comprising an image; computing, at the computing device, a similarity score for each respective image of a set of images based on a similarity between the respective image and the search query, the set of images comprising at least some images of the plurality of images of the search result; comparing, at the computing device, the similarity score for the each respective image to a threshold; modifying, at the computing device, one or more images of the set of images when the similarity score for the each respective image of the set of images is below the threshold, wherein the modifying the one or more images comprises: selecting a subset of image modification operations from a set of image modification operations of expanding, cropping, rotating, inverting, and color-correcting based on the search query, a number of operations in the subset of image modification operations being less than a number of operations in the set of image modification operations; and generating, for the each respective image of the one or more images, one or more modified images by performing the selected subset of image modification operations on the respective image until at least one of the one or more modified images has a corresponding similarity score greater than the threshold, the at least one of the modified images having a higher similarity to the image of the search query than the one or more images of the set of images; selecting, at the computing device, at least one representative image of the search result from the modified images that have corresponding similarity scores greater than the threshold; and sending, by the computing device, a search result listing for presentation on a display device, the search result listing comprising the at least one representative image of the search result.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising presenting the search result listing and the at least one representative image on the display device of the computing device.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving, at the computing device, a second search result based on the search query, the second search result comprising a second plurality of images; computing, at the computing device, a similarity score for each respective image of a second set of images based on a second similarity between the respective image of the second set of images and the search query, the second set of images comprising at least some of the second plurality of images of the second search result; selecting at least one representative image of the second search result from the second set of images based on the similarity score; and presenting in the search result listing the search result and the second search result at least partly based on the similarity score of the at least one representative image of the search result and the second search result.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein selecting the at least one representative image comprises selecting a plurality of representative images of the search result and presenting comprises cycling through each of the plurality of representative images of the search result.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein receiving the search result comprises receiving a video track consisting of the plurality of images, and wherein presenting the search result listing comprises, in response to receiving an input indicative of an interaction with the search result, causing playback of the video track associated with the search result starting from the at least one representative image.
6. A system comprising: a processing unit; and a memory, communicatively coupled to the processing unit and comprising computer-readable program instructions executable by the processing unit for: receiving a search result based on a search query, the search result comprising a plurality of images, the search query comprising an image; computing a similarity score for each respective image of a set of images based on a similarity between the respective image and the search query, the set of images comprising at least some of the plurality of images of the search result; comparing the similarity score for the each respective image to a threshold; modifying one or more images of the set of images when the similarity score for the each respective image of the set of images is below the threshold, wherein the modifying the one or more images comprises: selecting a subset of image modification operations from a set of image modification operations of expanding, cropping, rotating, inverting, and color-correcting based on the search query, a number of operations in the subset of image modification operations being less than a number of operations in the set of image modification operations; and generating, for the each respective image of the one or more images, one or more modified images by performing the selected subset of image modification operations on the respective image until at least one of the modified images has a corresponding similarity score greater than the threshold, the at least one of the modified images having a higher similarity to the image of the search query than the one or more images of the set of images; selecting at least one representative image of the search result from the modified images that have corresponding similarity scores greater than the threshold; and sending a search result listing for presentation on a display device, the search result listing comprising the at least one representative image of the search result.
7. The system of claim 6, the computer-readable program instructions being further executable by the processing unit for presenting the search result listing and the at least one representative image on the display device of the system.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer-readable program instructions are further executable by the processing unit for: receiving a second search result based on the search query, the second search result comprising a second plurality of images; computing a similarity score for each respective image of a second set of images based on a second similarity between the respective image of the second set of images and the search query the second set of images comprising at least some of the second plurality of images of the second search result; selecting at least one representative image of the second search result from the second set of images based on the similarity score; and presenting in the search result listing the search result and the second search result at least partly based on the similarity score of the at least one representative image of the search result and the second search result.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein selecting the at least one representative image comprises selecting a plurality of representative images of the search result, and presenting comprises cycling through each of the plurality of representative images of the search result.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein receiving the search result comprises receiving a video track consisting of the plurality of images, and wherein presenting the search result listing comprises, in response to receiving an input indicative of an interaction the search result, causing playback of the video track associated with the search result starting from the at least one representative image.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the search query further comprises at least one of a date, a time, a search resolution, and a search frame rate.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the computing device, a search request comprising the search query; and searching, by the computing device, a database comprising images using a search algorithm and the search query to obtain the search result.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the search algorithm includes performing feature extraction on the images of the database and the image of the search query.
14. The system of claim 6, wherein the search query further comprises at least one of a date, a time, a search resolution, and a search frame rate.
15. The system of claim 6, wherein the memory further comprises computer-readable program instructions executable by the processing unit for: receiving a search request comprising the search query; and searching a database comprising images using a search algorithm and the search query to obtain the search result.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the search algorithm includes performing feature extraction on the images of the database and the image of the search query.
17. The method of claim 1, the selecting further comprises selecting the subset of image modification operations based on source information used to acquire the search result, the source information including a source type, source lighting conditions, and relative locations of multiple sources.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that each of the modified one or more images has a corresponding similarity score less than the threshold; and selecting a second subset of image modification operations from the set of image modification operations based on the search query, the second subset of image modification operations being different from the subset of image modification operations, and a number of operations in the second subset of image modification operations being less than the number of operations in the set of image modification operations.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one representative image of the search result is ordered based on a weighted sum of similarity scores of the at least of presentative image.
</claims>
</document>
