<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/11,G06T7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELEMENT AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
LARADJI, ISSAM HADJ
MARIA VAZQUEZ BERMUDEZ, DAVID
OLIVEIRA PINHEIRO, PEDRO HENRIQUE
ROSTAMZADEH, NEGAR
SCHMIDT, MARK WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229657
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Counting objects in images based on approximate locations
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for counting objects in images based on each object's approximate location in the images. An image is passed to a segmentation module. The segmentation module segments the image into at least one object blob. Each object blob is an indication of a single object. The object blobs are counted by a counting module. In some embodiments, the segmentation module segments the image by classifying each image pixel and grouping nearby pixels of the same class together. In some embodiments, the segmentation module comprises a neural network that is trained to group pixels based on a set of training images. A plurality of the training images contain at least one point marker corresponding to a single training object. The segmentation module learns to group pixels into training object blobs that each contain a single point marker. Each training object blob is thus an indication of a single object.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for counting objects in an image, said method comprising the steps of: (a) receiving said image; (b) segmenting said image into at least one object blob, each object blob being an indication of a single object; and (c) counting said at least one object blob to thereby result in a count of said number of objects; wherein said segmenting in step (b) is performed using a neural network and wherein said neural network has been trained to perform said segmenting according to the following steps: receiving a set of training images, each of said training images comprising training pixels, at least one of said training images containing at least one training object and at least one point marker, each one of said training objects being associated with a single point marker; classifying each training pixel of each training image in said set into a class based on a type of training object depicted by said training pixel, to thereby produce classified training pixels; grouping similarly classified training pixels into at least one group blob, wherein each group blob is a group of pixels, such that all of said pixels in said group of pixel belong to a same class, and wherein said same class corresponds to a desired type of training object to be counted, and wherein each specific pixel in said group of pixels is adjacent to at least one other pixel in said group of pixels, and wherein each group blob contains at least one point marker; and refining said at least one group blob into at least one training object blob, such that said at least one training object blob contains a single point marker, said at least one training object blob thereby being an indication of a single specific training object; and wherein said refining includes applying at least one process that is based on a brightness of said training pixels to thereby split said at least one group blob into said at least one training object blob.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein step (b) further comprises the steps of: (b.1) classifying each pixel of said image into a class based on a type of object depicted by said pixel; and (b.2) grouping similarly classified pixels resulting from step (b.1) into said at least one object blob.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked pixel in each training image in said set.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked group of pixels in each training image in said set.
5. A system for counting objects in an image, said system comprising: a segmentation module for: receiving said image; and segmenting said image into at least one object blob, each object blob being an indication of a single object; and a counting module for counting said at least one object blob to thereby result in a count of said number of objects; wherein said segmentation module comprises a neural network and wherein said neural network is trained to segment said image, said training occurring according to the following steps: receiving a set of training images, each of said training images comprising training pixels, at least one of said training images containing at least one training object and at least one point marker, each one of said training objects being associated with a single point marker; classifying each training pixel of each training image in said set into a class based on a type of object depicted by said training pixel, to thereby produce classified training pixels; grouping similarly classified training pixels into at least one group blob, wherein each group blob is a group of pixels, such that all of said pixels in said group of pixel belong to a same class, and wherein said same class corresponds to a desired type of training object to be counted, and wherein each specific pixel in said group of pixels is adjacent to at least one other pixel in said group of pixels and wherein each group blob contains at least one point marker; and refining said at least one group blob into said at least one training object blob, such that said at least one training object blob contains a single point marker, said at least one training object blob thereby being an indication of a single specific training object; and wherein said refining includes applying at least one process that is based on a brightness of said training pixels to thereby split said at least one group blob into said at least one training object blob.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein said segmentation module further comprises: a classifying module for classifying each pixel of said image into a class based on a type of object depicted by said pixel; and a grouping module for grouping similarly classified pixels produced by said classifying module into said at least one object blob.
7. The system according to claim 5, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked pixel in each training image in said set.
8. The system according to claim 5, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked group of pixels in each training image in said set.
9. Non-transitory computer-readable media having encoded thereon computer-readable and computer-executable instructions that, when implemented, execute a method for counting objects in an image, said method comprising the steps of: (a) receiving said image; (b) segmenting said image into at least one object blob, each object blob being an indication of a single object; and (c) counting said at least one object blob to thereby result in a count of said number of objects; wherein said segmenting in step (b) is performed using a neural network and wherein said neural network has been trained to perform said segmenting according to the following steps: receiving a set of training images, each of said training images comprising training pixels, at least one of said training images containing at least one training object and at least one point marker, each one of said training objects being associated with a single point marker; classifying each training pixel of each training image in said set into a class based on a type of training object depicted by said training pixel, to thereby produce classified training pixels; grouping similarly classified training pixels into at least one group blob, wherein each group blob is a group of pixels, such that all of said pixels in said group of pixel belong to a same class, and wherein said same class corresponds to a desired type of training object to be counted, and wherein each specific pixel in said group of pixels is adjacent to at least one other pixel in said group of pixels, and wherein each group blob contains at least one point marker; and refining said at least one group blob into at least one training object blob, such that said at least one training object blob contains a single point marker, said at least one training object blob thereby being an indication of a single specific training object; and wherein said refining includes applying at least one process that is based on a brightness of said training pixels to thereby split said at least one group blob into said at least one training object blob.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable media according to claim 9, wherein step (b) further comprises the steps of: (b.1) classifying each pixel of said image into a class based on a type of object depicted by said pixel; and (b.2) grouping similarly classified pixels resulting from step (b.1) into said at least one object blob.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable media according to claim 9, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked pixel in each training image in said set.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable media according to claim 9, wherein said at least one point marker is a marked group of pixels in each training image in said set.
</claims>
</document>
