<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/338,G06F16/901,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUID
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIULLA, FABIO
TACCHI, RUGGERO ALTAIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57867532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitating targeted analysis via graph generation based on an influencing parameter
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a process including: obtaining a graph comprising nodes and edges, each of the edges having a value indicating an amount of similarity between objects corresponding to the two linked nodes; selecting a parameter for influencing the graph; assessing each of the nodes based on the selected influencing parameter, wherein assessing comprises, with respect to each adjacent node in the graph sharing an edge with the node: determining the value indicating the amount of similarity between the object corresponding to the node and the object corresponding to the adjacent node; and determining a score related to the edge shared with the node, the score determined based on the similarity-amount value and a value of the selected influencing parameter for the node, such that edges are removed, weakened, added, or strengthened; and preparing, based on the graph, instructions to display at least part of the graph.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining a graph indicating relationships between nodes of the graph; forming, by one or more processors, an adjusted graph by adjusting at least some of the relationships indicated by the graph, wherein: the at least some relationships are adjusted based on one or more influencing values; the one or more influencing values are associated with one or more nodes having an adjusted relationship after the relationship is adjusted; the relationships indicated by the obtained graph are based on attribute values other than the one or more influencing values; and adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting a first relationship between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with the first relationship; and causing the adjusted graph, or a visualization based thereon, to be displayed.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the relationships indicated by the obtained graph comprises relationships between objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph, and wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting one or more of the relationships between the corresponding objects.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises removing an edge between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with a first relationship between the two nodes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adding an edge between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with a first relationship between the two nodes.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining a score for a first relationship between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with the first relationship, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting the first relationship based on the score for the first relationship.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising: obtaining the one or more influencing values based on information from one or more data collections external to a corpus from which the obtained graph was formed.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein obtaining the one or more influencing values comprises extracting the one or more influencing values from the information from the one or more external data collections.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more influencing values are based on one or more amounts of social sharing of objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more influencing values are based on one or more amounts of followers of objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: forming the adjusted graph comprises steps for assessing nodes based on a selected influencing parameter.
11. A system comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that when executed by at least some of the one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: obtaining a graph indicating relationships between nodes of the graph; forming, by one or more processors, an adjusted graph by adjusting at least some of the relationships indicated by the graph, wherein: the at least some relationships are adjusted based on one or more influencing values; the one or more influencing values are associated with one or more nodes having an adjusted relationship after the relationship is adjusted; the relationships indicated by the obtained graph are based on attribute values other than the one or more influencing values; and adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting a first relationship between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with the first relationship; and causing the adjusted graph to be displayed or stored.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the relationships indicated by the obtained graph comprises relationships between objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph, and wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting one or more of the relationships between the corresponding objects.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises removing an edge between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with a first relationship between the two nodes.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adding an edge between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with a first relationship between the two nodes.
15. The system of claim 11, comprising: memory storing instructions that when executed by at least some of the one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: determining a score for a first relationship between two nodes based on (i) the one or more influencing values and (ii) a first relationship value associated with the first relationship, wherein adjusting the at least some relationships comprises adjusting the first relationship based on the score for the first relationship.
16. The system of claim 11, comprising: memory storing instructions that when executed by at least some of the one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: obtaining the one or more influencing values based on information from one or more data collections external to a corpus from which the obtained graph was formed.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein obtaining the one or more influencing values comprises extracting the one or more influencing values from the information from the one or more external data collections.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more influencing values are based on one or more amounts of social sharing of objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more influencing values are based on one or more amounts of followers of objects corresponding to the nodes of the graph.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations comprise: forming the adjusted graph comprises steps for assessing nodes based on a selected influencing parameter.
</claims>
</document>
