<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06F16/583,G06K7/14,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BASTIDE, PAUL R.
MAHAPATRA, DWARIKANATH
SAHA, SUSMITA
VISHWANATH, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68096063
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating hyperspectral image database by machine learning and mapping of color images to hyperspectral domain
</title>

<abstract>
Color images of food a user consumes, text information associated with the food and audio information associated with the food may be received. Color images are converted into hyperspectral images. A machine learning model classifies the hyperspectral images into features comprising at least taste, nutrient content and chemical composition. A database of food consumption pattern associated with the user is created based on classification features associated with the hyperspectral images, the text information and the audio information. A color image of local food may be received and converted into a hyperspectral image. The machine learning model is run with the hyperspectral image as input, and outputs classification features associated with the local food. Based on whether the classification features associated with the local food satisfies the food consumption pattern associated with the user, the local food may be recommended.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method executed by at least one hardware processor, comprising: receiving input comprising at least color images of food a user consumes, text information associated with the food and audio information associated with the food; converting the color images into hyperspectral images; generating output classification comprising at least taste, nutrient content and chemical composition features associated with the food the user consumes, by a machine learning model learned to classify input comprising the hyperspectral images; creating a database of food consumption pattern associated with the user based on the output classification features associated with the hyperspectral images, the text information and the audio information; determining a geographical location of the user; determining availability of local food at the geographical location; receiving as input a color image of the local food; converting the color image of the local food into a hyperspectral image; executing the machine learning model with the hyperspectral image of the local food as input, the machine learning model classifying the hyperspectral image of the local food into features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; determining whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database; and responsive to determining that the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database, recommending the local food.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a training data set comprising historical hyperspectral images labeled with classification features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; training a neural network based on the training data set, wherein the neural network receives as input the historical hyperspectral images and is trained to predict the labels comprising the classification features, by adjusting weights associated with nodes of the neural network that minimize a cost function of the neural network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained by sparse encoding.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises determining whether the features associated with the local food meet medical dietary restriction of food intake associated with the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises determining activity level of the user and wherein the recommending the local food is further based on the activity level of the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification features further comprise plant family associated with the food and molecular composition associated with the food.
7. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions readable by a device to cause the device to: determine a geographical location of the user; determine availability of local food at the geographical location; receive as input a color image of the local food; convert the color image of the local food into a hyperspectral image; execute a machine learning model with the hyperspectral image of the local food as input to the machine learning model, the machine learning model classifying the hyperspectral image of the local food into features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition, the machine learning model having been trained to classify input comprising hyperspectral images into classification features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; determine whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food a consumption pattern associated with the user specified in a database; and responsive to determining that the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database, recommend the local food, the device further caused to: receive input comprising at least color images of food a user consumes, text information associated with the food and audio information associated with the food; convert the color images into hyperspectral images; generate output classification comprising at least taste, nutrient content and chemical composition features associated with the food the user consumes, by the machine learning model learned to classify input comprising the hyperspectral images; and create the database of food consumption pattern associated with the user based on the output classification features associated with the hyperspectral images, the text information and the audio information.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the device is further caused to: receive a training data set comprising historical hyperspectral images labeled with classification features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; train a neural network based on the training data set, wherein the neural network receives as input the historical hyperspectral images and is trained to predict the labels comprising the classification features, by adjusting weights associated with nodes of the neural network that minimize a cost function of the neural network.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the machine learning model is trained by sparse encoding.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the device caused to determine whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises the device caused to determine whether the features associated with the local food meet medical dietary restriction of food intake associated with the user.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the device caused to determine whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises the device caused to determine an activity level of the user and wherein the device is caused to recommend the local food further based on the activity level of the user.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the classification features further comprise plant family associated with the food and molecular composition associated with the food.
13. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; a memory device coupled to the at least one hardware processor; the at least one hardware processor operable to at least: receive input comprising at least color images of food a user consumes, text information associated with the food and audio information associated with the food; convert the color images into hyperspectral images; generate output classification comprising at least taste, nutrient content and chemical composition features associated with the food the user consumes, by a machine learning model learned to classify input comprising the hyperspectral images; create a database of food consumption pattern associated with the user based on the output classification features associated with the hyperspectral images, the text information and the audio information; determine a geographical location of the user; determine availability of local food at the geographical location; receive as input a color image of the local food; convert the color image of the local food into a hyperspectral image; execute the machine learning model with the hyperspectral image of the local food as input, the machine learning model classifying the hyperspectral image of the local food into features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; determine whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database; and responsive to determining that the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database, recommend the local food.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one hardware processor is further operable to: receive a training data set comprising historical hyperspectral images labeled with classification features comprising at least taste, nutrient content, and chemical composition; train a neural network based on the training data set, wherein the neural network receives as input the historical hyperspectral images and is trained to predict the labels comprising the classification features, by adjusting weights associated with nodes of the neural network that minimize a cost function of the neural network.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the machine learning model is trained by sparse encoding.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one hardware processor determining whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises determining whether the features associated with the local food meet medical dietary restriction of food intake associated with the user.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one hardware processor determining whether the features associated with the local food satisfy the food consumption pattern associated with the user specified in the database further comprises determining activity level of the user and wherein the at least one hardware processor recommends the local food further based on the activity level of the user.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the classification features further comprise plant family associated with the food and molecular composition associated with the food.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one hardware processor trains a machine learning transformation model that converts the color image into the hyperspectral image based on a training set comprising a plurality of color images and hyperspectral images.
</claims>
</document>
