<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/11,A61B3/113,A61B5/00,A61B5/11,A61B5/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMADA, YASUNORI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62065212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Age estimation using feature of eye movement
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for estimating an age of a target individual includes obtaining information of eye movement of the target individual, analyzing the information of the eye movement to extract a feature of the eye movement, and estimating the age of the target individual using the feature of the eye movement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for estimating an age of a target individual, the method comprising: obtaining information of eye movement of the target individual; analyzing the information of the eye movement to extract one or more features of the eye movement; outputting, via an age estimation model performing a classification task, an estimated age value of the target individual using the one or more features of the eye movement; and estimating, via a mental fatigue estimation model performing a classification task, a mental state of the target individual using one or more eye movement features obtained from the target individual and the age estimated for the target individual for detection of disease and/or chronic medical condition.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the information of the eye movement includes time series data representing pupil dynamics obtained from the target individual and the feature of the eye movement includes a pupil feature relating to the pupil dynamics.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the time series data includes first time series data obtained from a first eye of the target individual and second time series data obtained from a second eye of the target individual, and the pupil feature is a coordination relationship between the pupil dynamics of both the first eye and the second eye of the target individual.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the coordination relationship is calculated as a phase synchronization index and/or a correlation value between the first and second time series data.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the first time series data and the second time series data are time series data of a pupil diameter of the first eye of the target individual and time series data of a pupil diameter of the second eye of the target individual, respectively.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the feature of the eye movement includes one or more features selected from a group including saccade amplitude, saccade duration, saccade rate, inter-saccade interval, mean velocity of saccade, peak velocity of saccade, blink duration, blink rate, inter-blink interval, an average diameter of a pupil of an individual eye, constriction velocity of the pupil of the individual eye, amplitude of the pupil of the individual eye, a frequency distribution of fixation in a polar coordinate system and a direction of the eye movement, in addition to the coordination relationship.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating of the age comprises determining a class indicating the age of the target individual by using a first learning model, the first learning model receiving the feature of the eye movement as input.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first learning model is trained using one or more training data for age estimation, each training data including label information indicating an age of a participant and a feature of eye movement extracted from information of the eye movement of the participant.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more eye movement features include one or more features selected from a group including saccade amplitude, saccade duration, saccade rate, inter-saccade interval, mean velocity of saccade, peak velocity of saccade, blink duration, blink rate, inter-blink interval, an average diameter of a pupil of an individual eye, constriction velocity of the pupil of the individual eye, amplitude of the pupil of the individual eye, a frequency distribution of fixation in a polar coordinate system, a direction of the eye movement, and a coordination relationship between pupil dynamics of both a first eye and a second eye of the target individual.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating of the mental state comprises determining a state or a degree non-transitory of mental fatigue as the mental state by using a second learning model, the second learning model receiving the one or more eye movement features and the age of the target individual as input and performing classification or regression.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second learning model includes a plurality of models, each model representative of a respective group of the age.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the second learning model is trained using one or more training data for mental fatigue estimation, each training data including label information indicating mental fatigue of a participant, one or more eye movement features of the participant and an age of the participant.
13. A computer-implemented method for training a learning model used for estimating an age of a target individual, the method comprising: preparing label information indicating an age, a mental state, and information of eye movement of the participant; extracting one or more features of the eye movement by analyzing the information of the eye movement; training the learning model using one or more training data, each training data including the label information and the one or more features of the eye movement; outputting, via an age estimation model performing a classification task, an estimated age value of the target individual using the one or more features of the eye movement; and estimating, via a mental fatigue estimation model performing a classification task, a mental state of the target individual using one or more eye movement features obtained from the target individual and the age estimated for the target individual for detection of disease and/or chronic medical condition.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the information of the eye movement includes time series data representing pupil dynamics obtained from the participant and the feature of the eye movement includes a pupil feature relating to the pupil dynamics.
15. A computer system for estimating an age of a target individual, by executing program instructions, the computer system comprising: a memory tangibly storing the program instructions; and a processor in communications with the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: obtain information of eye movement of the target individual; analyze the information of the eye movement to extract one or more features of the eye movement; output, via an age estimation model performing a classification task, an estimated age value of the target individual using the one or more features of the eye movement; and estimate, via a mental fatigue estimation model performing a classification task, a mental state of the target individual using one or more eye movement features obtained from the target individual and the age estimated for the target individual for detection of disease and/or chronic medical condition.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the information of the eye movement includes time series data representing pupil dynamics obtained from a participant and the feature of the eye movement includes a pupil feature relating to the pupil dynamics.
17. The computer system 16, wherein the time series data includes first time series data obtained from a first eye of the target individual and second time series data obtained from a second eye of the target individual, and the pupil feature is a coordination relationship between the pupil dynamics of both the first eye and the second eye of the target individual.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to determine a class indicating the age of the target individual by using a first learning model, the first learning model receiving the feature of the eye movement as input and performing classification.
19. A computer program product for estimating an age of a target individual, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
