<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/06,G06K19/07,G06N3/08,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MURPHY, MALLORY
YAMASHITA, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69058624
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and arrangements to detect a payment instrument malfunction
</title>

<abstract>
Logic may detect a malfunctioning payment interface on a customer's payment instrument. Logic may receive transaction data about at least one transaction performed via a payment instrument associated with a customer. The transaction data may indicate a payment interface of the payment instrument through which the customer conducted the at least one transaction and the payment instrument may comprise one or more payment interfaces. Logic may determine, by a model, based on the transaction data, a probability of a malfunction by at least one interface of the one or more payment interfaces. The model may be trained based on a pattern of transactions associated with malfunctioning payment instruments. Logic may compare the probability of the transaction against a threshold. And logic may determine whether to contact a customer associated with the payment instrument, based comparison of the probability of the transaction against the threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: memory; and logic circuitry coupled with the memory, the logic circuitry comprising a model and a malfunction determiner, the logic circuitry to receive, at the logic circuitry, transaction data about at least one transaction performed via a payment instrument associated with a customer, the transaction data to indicate a payment interface of the payment instrument through which the customer conducted the at least one transaction, the payment instrument comprising one or more payment interfaces; determine, by the model, based on the transaction data, a probability of a malfunction by at least one interface of the one or more payment interfaces, wherein the model is trained by the logic circuitry based on a pattern of transactions associated with malfunctioning payment instruments; compare, by the malfunction determiner, the probability of the malfunction against a threshold; and determine, by the malfunction determiner, whether the at least one interface is malfunctioning based comparison of the probability of the malfunction against the threshold.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the logic circuitry is configured to determine that the probability exceeds the threshold and to determine to contact the customer to send the customer a new payment instrument, request input about a malfunction of the payment instrument, offer a new payment instrument to the customer, or a combination thereof.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transaction data about the at least one transaction comprises a date, a time, a payment interface, a fallback indicator, an authorization or declination indicator, or a combination thereof.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more payment interfaces comprise a contactless interface and at least one contacted interface, wherein the at least one contacted interface comprises a magnetic stripe, a chip, or a combination of both.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data associated with customer requests for new payment instruments.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data including changes in transaction patterns, the changes in transaction patterns including information about transaction modes, wherein each transaction mode is associated with one of the one or more payment interfaces.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data including changes in transaction patterns prior to a decrease in a frequency of use of the payment instrument or a decrease in use of one interface of the one or more payment interfaces associated with the payment instrument.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the logic circuitry is configured to pretrain a neural network or machine learning algorithm based on purchase histories, of multiple customers, that include transactions conducted via more than one transaction mode.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the logic circuitry is configured to pretrain a neural network based on purchase history associated with the customer, to train the neural network to recognize patterns of transactions specific to the customer.
10. A non-transitory storage medium containing instructions, which when executed by a processor, the processor to comprise a model and a malfunction determiner, the instructions, when executed, to cause the processor to perform operations to: receive transaction data about at least one transaction performed via a payment instrument associated with a customer, the transaction data to indicate a payment interface of the payment instrument through which the customer conducted the at least one transaction, the payment instrument comprising one or more payment interfaces; determine, by the model, a deviation from a transaction pattern by at least one interface of the one or more payment interfaces, wherein the model is trained by the processor based on the transaction data, the transaction data indicative of a past spending behavior of the customer; and determine, by the malfunction determiner, to contact a customer associated with the payment instrument, the determination based on the deviation and a threshold.
11. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise operations to determine that the deviation exceeds the threshold and determine send the customer a new payment instrument, to contact the customer to request input about a malfunction of the payment instrument, to offer a new payment instrument to the customer, or a combination thereof.
12. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the transaction data about the at least one transaction comprises a date, a time, a payment interface, a fallback indicator, an authorization or declination indicator, or a combination thereof.
13. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the one or more payment interfaces comprise a contactless interface and at least one contacted interface, wherein the at least one contacted interface comprises a magnetic stripe, a chip, or a combination of both.
14. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data associated with customer requests for new payment instruments.
15. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 14, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data including changes in transaction patterns, the changes in transaction patterns including information about transaction modes, wherein each transaction mode is associated with one of the one or more payment interfaces.
16. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the model comprises a neural network or machine learning algorithm pretrained based on transaction data from multiple customers, the transaction data including changes in transaction patterns prior to a decrease in a frequency of use of the payment instrument or a decrease in use of one interface of the one or more payment interfaces associated with the payment instrument.
17. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the model comprises a recurrent neural network, a logistic regression algorithm, or a gradient boosting engine.
18. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise operations to pretrain a neural network or machine learning algorithm based on purchase histories, of multiple customers, that include transactions conducted via more than one transaction mode.
19. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise operations to pretrain a neural network based on the purchase history associated with the customer, to train the neural network to recognize patterns of transactions specific to the customer.
20. A system comprising: memory; and logic circuitry coupled with the memory, the logic circuitry comprising a model and a trainer, the logic circuitry to: provide transaction data associated with more than one customer; identify for each of multiple customers of the more than one customer at least one request to obtain a new payment instruments; determine, for the multiple customers of the more than one customer, a set of transaction data indicative of at least one transaction pattern leading to the requests to obtain the new payment instruments; and train, by the trainer, the model based on the set of transaction data for the multiple customers, the model to output, in inference mode, a probability based on a deviation from the at least one transaction pattern that lead to the requests to obtain new payment instruments.
</claims>
</document>
