<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/30,G06F9/38,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SADASIVAM, SATISH KUMAR
SAXENA, SHRUTI
BHAT, PUNEETH A. H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63711614
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Branch predictor selection management
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed aspects relate to branch predictor selection management in a pipelined microprocessor architecture. A set of selection factor data may be collected in the pipelined microprocessor architecture. The set of selection factor data may be analyzed using a perceptron-based learning technique with respect to a set of candidate branch predictors. A chosen branch predictor may be selected from the set of candidate branch predictors based on analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique. The chosen branch predictor may be invoked in the pipelined microprocessor architecture.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for branch predictor selection management in a pipelined microprocessor architecture, the method comprising: collecting, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of selection factor data; analyzing, using a perceptron-based neural learning technique, the set of selection factor data with respect to a set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the perceptron-based neural learning technique employs a table indexed with an instruction address to calculate a vector dot product from weights and historical vector bits; selecting, based on analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, a chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the vector dot product determines the selection of the chosen branch predictor; and invoking, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, the chosen branch predictor.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of historical branch behavior data; analyzing, using the perceptron-based neural learning technique, the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; and selecting, based on analyzing the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of historical branch behavior data; weighting the set of historical branch behavior data using a set of appropriate weights for the set of historical branch behavior data; analyzing, using the perceptron-based learning technique, the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; and selecting, using the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors, the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: analyzing a weighted sum of the set of historical branch behavior data.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ascertaining a confidence derived from a set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; and selecting, based on the confidence derived from the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors, the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: comparing a confidence value derived from the set of historical branch behavior data and a set of perceptron weights with a threshold value to select one among the set of candidate branch predictors; resolving, based on the comparing, a candidate branch predictor order; and selecting, both based on and in response to the resolving, the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of historical branch behavior data; ascertaining a set of confidence weights with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; analyzing, using the perceptron-based learning technique, the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; and selecting, using the set of confidence weights with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors and based on analyzing the set of historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors, the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting that a first candidate branch predictor of the set of candidate branch predictors indicates a first direction of a branch; detecting that a second candidate branch predictor of the set of candidate branch predictors indicates a second direction of the branch that differs from the first direction; determining that the first direction is indicated to be correct and that the second direction is indicated to be incorrect; and updating, based on determining that the first direction is indicated to be correct and that the second direction is indicated to be incorrect, the set of selection factor data.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ascertaining, based on both invoking the chosen branch predictor in the pipelined microprocessor architecture and analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, a set of absolute confidence scores with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; determining, based on the set of absolute confidence scores in comparison with a threshold value with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors, to update a subset of the set of candidate branch predictors; and updating the subset of the set of candidate branch predictors.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: analyzing an absolute weighted sum of the set of selection factor data.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ascertaining, based on both invoking the chosen branch predictor in the pipelined microprocessor architecture and analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, a set of confidence scores with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; determining, based on the set of confidence scores with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors, not to update a subset of the set of candidate branch predictors; and bypassing updating the subset of the set of candidate branch predictors.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by comparing a threshold score with respect to a set of confidence scores, whether to update a subset of the set of candidate branch predictors.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: optimizing a selector to choose an appropriate branch predictor.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, using a confidence-oriented selector, the chosen branch predictor.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: training, using the neural network in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a selector.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: executing, in a dynamic fashion to streamline branch predictor selection management, each of: the collecting, the analyzing, the selecting, and the invoking.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: executing, in an automated fashion without user intervention, each of: the collecting, the analyzing, the selecting, and the invoking.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting, using a neural network in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of historical branch behavior data; weighting and summing the set of historical branch behavior data with a set of perceptron table weights; analyzing, using the perceptron-based learning technique, a weighted sum of the historical branch behavior data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; ascertaining a confidence score in comparison with a threshold value with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors; and selecting the chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors: in response to resolving the difference in comparison between the confidence score and the threshold value with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors.
19. A system for branch predictor selection management in a pipelined microprocessor architecture, the system comprising: a memory having a set of computer readable computer instructions, at least one branch selector communicatively coupled to the memory and the pipelined microprocessor architecture, wherein the at least one branch selector selects a branch within a neural network in the pipelined microprocessor architecture according to the output of a processor executing the set of computer readable computer instructions; and the processor for executing the set of computer readable instructions, the set of computer readable instructions including: collecting, by the processor, using the neural network in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of selection factor data; analyzing, by the processor, using a perceptron-based learning technique, the set of selection factor data with respect to a set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the perceptron-based neural learning technique employs a table indexed with an instruction address to calculate a vector dot product from weights and historical vector bits; selecting, by the processor, based on analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, a chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the vector dot product determines the selection of the chosen branch predictor; and invoking, at the at least one branch selector in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, the chosen branch predictor.
20. A computer program product for branch predictor selection management in a pipelined microprocessor architecture, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: collecting, using a neural network in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, a set of selection factor data; analyzing, using a perceptron-based learning technique, the set of selection factor data with respect to a set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the perceptron-based neural learning technique employs a table indexed with an instruction address to calculate a vector dot product from weights and historical vector bits; selecting, based on analyzing the set of selection factor data with respect to the set of candidate branch predictors using the perceptron-based learning technique, a chosen branch predictor from the set of candidate branch predictors, wherein the vector dot product determines the selection of the chosen branch predictor; and invoking, in the pipelined microprocessor architecture, the chosen branch predictor.
</claims>
</document>
