<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/956,G02B5/20,G06F17/15,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LAM RESEARCH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASHTIANI, KAIHAN
DANEK, MICHAL
LIND, GARY B.
POWELL RONALD
RUMER, MICHAEL
SAWLANI, KAPIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66171086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
In-situ chamber clean end point detection systems and methods using computer vision systems
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a camera mounted external to and adjacent to a window of a processing chamber configured to process semiconductor substrates. The window allows the camera to view a component in the processing chamber. The camera is configured to generate a video signal indicative of a status of the component during a process being performed in the processing chamber. The system further includes a controller coupled to the processing chamber. The controller is configured to control the camera, process the video signal from the camera, determine the status of the component based on the processing of the video signal, and determine whether to terminate the process based on the status of the component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a camera mounted external to and adjacent to a window of a processing chamber configured to process semiconductor substrates, the window allowing the camera to view a component in the processing chamber, the camera configured to generate a video signal indicative of a status of the component during a process being performed in the processing chamber; and a controller coupled to the processing chamber and configured to: control the camera; process the video signal from the camera; determine the status of the component based on the processing of the video signal; and determine whether to terminate the process based on the status of the component.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein in response to the process being a cleaning process performed to remove material deposited on the component by a previously performed process, the controller is configured to: compare a change in an attribute of a feature of the component observed over a plurality of frames of the video signal to a predetermined threshold; determine, based on the comparison, whether the material deposited on the component is removed; and terminate the cleaning process in response to determining that the material deposited on the component is removed.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein in response to the process being a cleaning process performed to remove material deposited on the component by a previously performed process, the controller is configured to: compare an image captured from the video signal to a predetermined image; determine, based on the comparison, whether the material deposited on the component is removed; and terminate the cleaning process in response to determining that the material deposited on the component is removed.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to: receive data from one or more sensors in the processing chamber; generate a model based on the data received from one or more sensors and video signals received from the camera, the video signals indicating the status of the component while the process is previously performed in the processing chamber; and use the model to: process the video signal; determine the status of the component based on the processing of the video signal; and determine whether to terminate the process based on the determined status of the component.
5. The system of claim 1 further comprising: an optical filter arranged between the camera and the window, the optical filter configured to filter one or more wavelengths of light received from the component through the window and to output a filtered signal to the camera, wherein the controller is configured to determine the status of the component based on processing the filtered signal using optical interference.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the controller is configured to determine whether the process is performed across an entirety of the component prior to terminating the process.
7. The system of claim 5 wherein the controller is configured to determine whether the process is performed uniformly across an entirety of the component prior to terminating the process.
8. The system of claim 5 wherein the controller is configured to determine a rate at which the process is being performed at different locations on the component.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the component includes a semiconductor substrate and the process includes a film removal process performed to remove a film from the semiconductor substrate, and wherein the controller is configured to determine whether film is removed across an entirety of the component prior to terminating the process.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to focus the camera at an edge of the component and to determine whether the process is performed at the edge of the component prior to terminating the process.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein the component includes a semiconductor substrate and the process includes a deposition process, the system further comprising: a first optical filter arranged between the camera and the window, the first optical filter being configured to filter wavelengths of ultraviolet light received from the component through the window; and a second optical filter arranged between the camera and the window, the second optical filter being configured to filter wavelengths of infrared light received from the component through the window; wherein the controller is configured to: determine a thickness of material being deposited at a plurality of locations on the component based on an output of the first optical filter; determine a temperature of the component at the plurality of locations based on an output of the second optical filter; correlate the determinations of the thickness and the temperature; and determine a uniformity of deposition across an entirety of the component based on the correlation.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein the component includes a semiconductor substrate and the process includes a deposition process, the system further comprising: an optical sensor configured to view a bottom portion of the component, wherein the controller is configured to: focus the camera at a top portion of the component; process images received from the optical sensor and the camera; and determine uniformity of deposition across entireties of the top portion and the bottom portion of the component based on the processing of the images.
13. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a second controller coupled to a second processing chamber in which the same process is performed, the second controller configured to control a second camera associated with the second processing chamber; and a third controller configured to: analyze data from the controller and the second controller; compare, based on the analyzed data, the performance of the process in the processing chamber to the performance of the process in the second processing chamber; and determine, based on the comparison, whether the performance of the process in the processing chamber matches the performance of the process in the second processing chamber.
14. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a second controller coupled to a second processing chamber in which the same process is performed on the same component, the second controller configured to control a second camera associated with the second processing chamber; and a third controller configured to: analyze data from the controller and the second controller; compare, based on the analyzed data, the performance of the process on the component in the processing chamber and in the second processing chamber; and determine, based on the comparison, whether the performance of the process on the component in the processing chamber matches the performance of the process on the component in the second processing chamber.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein in response to the process in the processing chamber finishing earlier than in the second processing chamber, the third controller is configured to terminate the process in the processing chamber earlier than in the second processing chamber.
</claims>
</document>
