<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F9/44,G06F9/451,G06T11/60,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZEBRAFISH LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARDONA, JR., MIGUEL A.
LARKIN, JEREMY
ANGERS, JOHN
BIRDSONG, DAVID
ZACHARIAS, CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53544819
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User interface for just-in-time image processing
</title>

<abstract>
Technology is disclosed for an image editing tool that generates a recipe for just-in-time processing of images ("the technology"). Various embodiments of the technology include an image processing system that provides image processing services to a client system that publishes content including an image to end users. The image processing system processes the image based on a recipe to generate a processed image. The image editing tool is integrated into an application, e.g., webpage or a web browser, that displays the content. A user, e.g., administrator of the client system, can use the image editing tool to edit the image on the webpage and generate the recipe including instructions regarding the edits. The recipe is transmitted to the image processing system which processes the image based on the recipe, and transmits the processed image to the client system for further transmission to the end users accessing the content.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, at a client system, a request for editing an image generated in a webpage associated with the client system, wherein the client system publishes content to an end user via the webpage, the content including the image; generating, at the client system, an image editing tool that provides image processing services to the client system, the image editing tool associated with an image processing system distinct from the client system, wherein the image editing tool is generated in the same webpage that displays the content to the end user, and wherein the image editing tool enables a user to edit the image in the webpage and while the image is being displayed with the content as published to the end user; receiving, at the client system from the image editing tool, multiple editing operations performed on the image; generating, at the client system, a recipe that includes a set of image processing instructions corresponding to the editing operations, wherein generating the recipe includes: generating a node graph having multiple nodes representing the multiple editing operations, wherein the node graph includes a secondary graph representing one or more editing operations, which are executed by the image processing system if a conditional sorting feature associated with secondary graph is satisfied, the conditional sorting feature based on a timestamp criterion or an anticipated system processor load threshold based on future execution of the one or more editing operations; and transmitting, by the client system, the recipe to the image processing system.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, at the client system from an end user device associated with the end user, a request for accessing the webpage; transmitting, by the image processing system, a processed image to the client system; and transmitting, by the client system, the processed image to the end user device associated with the end user to be displayed with the content of the webpage.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the transmitting the processed image includes processing, by the image processing system, a copy of the image based on the recipe to generate the processed image.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: retrieving, by the image processing system, a copy of the image from a cache associated with the image processing system; and processing, by the image processing system, the copy of the image based on the recipe to generate a processed image.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the recipe includes generating a node graph that represents the set of image processing instructions, wherein the node graph includes a sequence of nodes.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein each node in the sequence represents an image processing operation corresponding to an image processing instruction from the set of image processing instructions.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5 further comprising: executing, by the image processing system, the node graph to process the image, and generating a processed image based on the executing.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein executing the node graph includes: identifying an input parameter of a specified node in the sequence, and executing an image processing operation corresponding to the specified node based on the input parameter to generate the processed image.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the input parameter is extracted from a webpage access request received from the end user for accessing the webpage.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8 further comprising: storing the processed image in a cache associated with the image processing system, wherein the processed image is stored in association with the input parameter.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein generating the processed image includes: determining if an input parameter of any of multiple processed images of the image stored in a cache associated with the image processing system matches with the input parameter of the specified node, and generating the processed image in an event no match is found.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein a specified node in the sequence includes a conditional image processing operation that is to be performed on the image in an event a condition is satisfied.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein a specified node in the sequence includes a conditional image processing operation that is to be performed on the image in an event a condition is satisfied.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein a specified node in the sequence includes a source location of the image.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein generating the node graph in the sequence includes generating a compound node graph, wherein the compound node graph includes at least two distinct node graphs.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein generating the compound node graph includes: generating a first node graph for a first image, generating a second node graph for a second image, and combining the first node graph and the second node graph to form the compound node graph.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the second node graph is executed in a lazy manner.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein generating the compound node graph includes: generating a first node graph having a first set of image processing instructions, generating a second node graph for a second image having a second set of image processing instructions, and generating an invoke node in the compound node graph, wherein the invoke node invokes at least one of the first node graph or the second node graph based on a condition specified in the compound node graph.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image editing tool includes a graphical user interface (GUI) having a plurality of editing controls for performing the editing operations.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the editing controls enable the image to be edited directly in the webpage.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of image processing instructions includes instructions regarding at least one of (a) a target size of the image, (b) a target resolution of the image, (c) a target color pattern of the image, (d) a target layout of the image with respect to other content with which the image is served, (e) a target brightness value, (f) a target contrast value, (g) a target saturation value, (h) a target portion of the image to be highlighted, (i) a target area of the image to be cropped, (j) a watermark of the image, or (k) three dimensional (3D) features of the image.
22. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable instructions, comprising: instructions for receiving, at a client system from an end user device associated with an end user, a first request for accessing a webpage published by the client system, the webpage including content, wherein the content includes an image; instructions for transmitting, by the client system to an image processing system that is distinct from the client system, a second request for obtaining a processed image of the image; instructions for transmitting, by the image processing system, the processed image to the client system, wherein the processed image is generated based on a recipe associated with the image, the recipe including a set of image processing instructions generated by an image editing tool at the client system based on multiple editing operations performed on the image by a user associated with the client system, wherein the image editing tool is generated in the same webpage that displays the content to the end user, wherein the set of image processing instructions is generated by: generating a node graph having multiple nodes representing the multiple editing operations, wherein the node graph includes a secondary graph representing one or more editing operations, which are executed by the image processing system if a conditional sorting feature associated with secondary graph is satisfied, the conditional sorting feature is based on a timestamp criterion or an anticipated system processing load threshold based on future execution of the one or more editing operations; and instructions for transmitting, by the client system, the processed image to the end user device to be displayed with the content of the webpage.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the instructions for transmitting the processed image to the client system include: instructions for generating a node graph that represents the set of image processing instructions, wherein the node graph includes a sequence of nodes.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein each node in the sequence represents an image processing operation corresponding to an image processing instruction from the set of image processing instructions.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 23 further comprising: instructions for executing, by the image processing system, the node graph to process the image, and instructions for generating the processed image based on the executing.
26. An apparatus comprising: a processor; an image processing request receiving module to receive, at a client system, a request for editing an image generated in a webpage associated with the client system, wherein the client system publishes content to an end user via the webpage, the content including the image; a visor GUI generation module to generate, at the client system, an image editing tool that provides image processing services to the client system, the image editing tool associated with an image processing system distinct from the client system, wherein the image editing tool is generated in the same webpage that displays the content to the end user, and wherein the image editing tool enables a user to edit the image in the webpage and while the image is being displayed with the content as published to the end user; an image recipe generation module to: receive, at the client system from the image editing tool, multiple editing operations performed on the image, and generate a recipe that includes a set of image processing instructions corresponding to the editing operations, wherein generating the recipe includes: generating a node graph having multiple nodes representing the multiple editing operations, wherein the node graph includes a secondary graph representing one or more editing operations, which are executed by the image processing system if a conditional sorting feature associated with secondary graph is satisfied, the conditional sorting feature based on a timestamp criterion and an anticipated system processor load threshold based on future execution of the one of more editing operations; and an image recipe transmission module to transmit, by the client system, the recipe to the image processing system.
</claims>
</document>
