<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GUAVUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHARDWAJ, ANKIT
KUMAR, PANKAJ
SARAF, ATUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68613563
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Anomaly detection associated with communities
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for detecting unauthorized access to a plurality of network assets is described. The system and method receive a network asset feed from a plurality of data sources and then generating at least one social graph with the network asset feed. User communities are identified with the social graph and user accounts are associated with user communities. Commonly accessed network assets are identified from a firewall log, a router log or the combination thereof. A derived community is identified based on the user accounts associated with commonly accessed network assets. The systems and methods monitor communications associated with the user community so that the communications correspond to the derived community, and then reports an anomalous communication when the user community communications do not correspond to the derived community.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting unauthorized access to a plurality of network assets, the system comprising: an anomaly detection server including a processor and a memory; a first network asset feed received by the anomaly detection server from a plurality of email data sources; at least one social graph generated by the anomaly detection server with the first network asset feed; a plurality of user communities that are identified with the social graph; a plurality of user community communications, wherein each communication of the plurality of user community communications associated with at least one of the plurality of user communities; one or more user accounts associated with the plurality of user communities; a plurality of other network asset feeds that are accessed by the one or more user accounts from at least one of a firewall log and a router log, wherein the plurality of other network asset feeds include, a firewall and an associated firewall feed, and a firewall social graph with the firewall feed; one or more derived communities are associated with a commonly accessed network asset; and an anomalous communication reported by the anomaly detection server when one of the plurality of user community communications does not correspond to the one or more derived communities.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the email data sources include, an email server and an associated email server feed, and an email social graph generated with the email server feed.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the firewall feed includes at least one of a normal firewall data set and an anomalous firewall data set.
4. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one overlapping community, in which each overlapping community includes at least two work groups.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more derived communities is determined by using one or more traffic patterns corresponding to at least one user community accessing a shared network asset.
6. The system of claim 1 further comprising an anomalous activity indicative of an attempt to have unauthorized access to at least one network asset, when one user community of the plurality of user communities does not correspond to at least one derived community of the one or more derived communities.
7. A system for detecting unauthorized access to a plurality of network assets, the system comprising: an anomaly detection server including a processor and a memory; a first network asset feed received by the anomaly detection server from a plurality of data sources, wherein the first network asset feed is communicated to an anomaly detection module; at least one social graph generated by the anomaly detection server with the first network asset feed, wherein the social graph is generated at the anomaly detection module; a plurality of user communities that are identified with the social graph, in which each user community is associated with a work group; a plurality of user community communications, wherein each communication of the plurality of user community communications associated with at least one of the plurality of user communities; one or more user accounts associated with the plurality of user communities at the anomaly detection module; a plurality of other network asset feeds that are accessed by the one or more user accounts from at least one of a firewall log and a router log, wherein the plurality of other network asset feeds include, a firewall and an associated firewall feed, and a firewall social graph with the firewall feed; one or more derived communities are associated with a commonly accessed network asset, wherein the one or more derived communities is determined by using one or more traffic patterns corresponding to at least one user community accessing a shared network asset; an anomalous communication reported when one of the plurality of user community communications does not correspond to the one or more derived communities; and wherein the anomaly detection module is configured to monitor communications of the user community so that the communications correspond to the derived community.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the first network asset feed includes, an email server and an associated email server, and an email social graph generated with the email server feed.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein the firewall feed includes at least one of a normal firewall data set and an anomalous firewall data set.
10. The system of claim 7 further comprising at least one overlapping community, in which each overlapping community includes at least two work groups.
11. The system of claim 7 further comprising an anomalous activity indicative of an attempt to have unauthorized access to at least one network asset, when one user community of the plurality of user communities does not correspond to at least one derived community of the one or more derived communities.
12. A method for detecting unauthorized access to a plurality of network assets, the method comprising: receiving a first network asset feed from a plurality of data sources, wherein the first network asset feed is communicated to an anomaly detection module; generating, at the anomaly detection module, at least one social graph with the first network asset feed; identifying, at the anomaly detection module, a plurality of user communities with the social graph, in which each user community is associated with a work group wherein each user community of the plurality of user communities includes at least one user community communication of a plurality of user community communications; associating, at the anomaly detection module, one or more user accounts with the plurality of user communities; receiving a plurality of other network asset feeds that are accessed by the one or more user accounts from at least one of a firewall log and a router log, wherein at least one of the plurality of other network asset feeds includes, accessing a firewall and an associated firewall feed, and generating a firewall social graph with the firewall feed; determining one or more derived communities, in which each derived community is associated with a commonly accessed network asset; monitoring, at the anomaly detection module, the plurality of user community communications for user community communications corresponding to the one or more derived communities; and reporting an anomalous communication when one of the monitored user community communications does not correspond to the derived community.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the first network asset feed includes, accessing an email server and an associated email server feed; and generating an email social graph with the email server feed.
14. The method of claim 12 further comprising tagging the firewall feed as having at least one of a normal firewall data set and an anomalous firewall data set.
15. The method of claim 12 further comprising identifying at least one overlapping community, in which each overlapping community includes at least two work groups.
16. The method of claim 12 wherein the determining of one or more derived communities is performed by using one or more traffic patterns corresponding to at least one user community accessing a shared network asset.
17. The method of claim 12 further comprising identifying an anomalous activity indicative of an attempt to have unauthorized access to at least one network asset, when one user community of the plurality of user communities does not correspond to at least one derived community of the one or more derived communities.
</claims>
</document>
