<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G09B5/12,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,G10L25/63,H04N21/258,H04N21/2668,H04N21/414,H04N21/422,H04N21/4223,H04N21/43,H04N21/442,H04N21/45,H04N21/658,H04N21/81
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHETLUR, MALOLAN
EKAMBARAM, VIJAY
JOSHI, VIKAS V.
SREE PRAKASH, ASHOK PON KUMAR
SUNDARARAJAN, SHARAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59581638
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Conditional provisioning of auxiliary information with a media presentation
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for conditional presentation of auxiliary information are provided. In one example, a computer-implemented method comprises determining, by a device operatively coupled to a processor, feedback information for a user in response to a media presentation, wherein the feedback information is indicative of a mental state of the user during presentation of the media presentation. The computer-implemented method can further comprise determining content of the media presentation associated with the mental state of the user, and determining auxiliary information about the content based on the mental state of the user. The computer-implemented method can further comprise providing, by the device, the content to a user device during the presentation of the media presentation and for rendering at the user device in association with presentation of the content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer-executable components; a processor that executes the computer-executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer-executable components comprise: a feedback component that monitors a mental state of a user during provision of a presentation to the user, wherein the presentation comprises a spoken description of a topic; an analysis component that determines, based on a determination that the mental state comprises a defined type of mental state included in a set of two or more defined types of mental states, a portion of the topic associated with causation of the defined type of mental state; an auxiliary information component that determines auxiliary information about the portion of the topic based on the defined type of mental state, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a textual description associated with the portion of the topic, and wherein the auxiliary information component further selects a length of the textual description to output to the user based on profile information associated with the user; and a communication component that provides the auxiliary information to a device employed by the user during the presentation for rendering by the device in association with presentation of the portion of the topic.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the defined type of mental state comprises a state of confusion and wherein the auxiliary information component determines the auxiliary information to comprise of clarifying information about the portion of the topic based on the defined type of mental state being the state of confusion.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the defined type of mental state comprises a state of intrigue and wherein the auxiliary information component determines the auxiliary information to comprise of supplementary information about the portion of the topic based on the defined type of mental state being the state of intrigue.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis component determines the mental state of the user based on feedback information identifying one or more facial expressions of the user made during the provision of the presentation to the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis component determines the portion of the topic associated with the causation of the defined type of mental state based on detection of on one or more key terms included in the spoken description of the topic that were spoken at a time associated with detection of the defined type of mental state of the user.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the auxiliary information component further determines a type of the auxiliary information based on a learning style of user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the auxiliary information component further determines a type of the auxiliary information based on an intellectual level of the user.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a textual description associated with the portion of the topic, and wherein the auxiliary information component further determines a length of the textual description based on profile information associated with the user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a textual description associated with the portion of the topic, and wherein the auxiliary information component further determines a length of the textual description based on an intellectual level of the user.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable components further comprise: a streaming component that streams a visual component of the presentation to the device for concurrent presentation of the visual component of the presentation at the device in association with reception of the spoken description of the topic.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the device comprises a head-mounted display that is worn by the user.
12. A computer-implemented method, comprising: monitoring, by a device operatively coupled to a processor, a mental state of a user during provision of a presentation to the user, wherein the presentation comprises a spoken description of a topic; based on a determination that the mental state comprises a defined type of mental state included in a set of two or more defined types of mental states, determining, by the device, a portion of the topic associated with causation of the defined type of mental state; determining, by the device, auxiliary information about the portion based on the defined type of mental state, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a textual description associated with the portion of the topic; determining, by the device, a length of the textual description based on profile information associated with the user; and providing, by the device, the auxiliary information to a user device employed by the user during the presentation for rendering by the device in association with presentation of the portion.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the defined type of mental state comprises a state of confusion and wherein the determining the auxiliary information comprises determining clarifying information about the portion.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the defined type of mental state comprises a state of intrigue and wherein the determining the auxiliary information comprises determining supplementary information about the portion.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the monitoring the mental state of the user comprises: receiving feedback information identifying one or more facial expressions of the user made during the provision of the presentation to the user; and determining the mental state of the user based on the one or more facial expressions.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the determining the portion of the topic comprises: determining one or more key terms included in the spoken description of the topic that were spoken at a time associated with detection of the defined type of mental state of the user; and determining the portion of the topic based on the one or more key terms.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a type of the auxiliary information based on a learning style of user.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: determining a type of the auxiliary information based on an intellectual level of the user.
19. A non-transitory computer program product for conditional provisioning of auxiliary information with a presentation, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: monitor, by the processor, a mental state of a user during provision of the presentation to the user, wherein the presentation comprises a spoken description of a topic; determine, by the processor, based on a determination that the mental state comprises a defined type of mental state included in a set of two or more defined types of mental states, a portion of the topic associated with causation of the defined type of mental state; determine, by the processor, auxiliary information about the portion based on the defined type of mental state, wherein the auxiliary information comprises a textual description associated with the portion of the topic; determine, by the processor, a length of the textual description based on profile information associated with the user; and provide, by the processor, the auxiliary information to a device employed by the user during the presentation for rendering by the device in association with presentation of the portion.
20. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 19, wherein the defined type of mental state comprises a state of confusion and wherein the processor determines the auxiliary information to comprise clarifying information about the portion based on the mental state being the state of confusion.
</claims>
</document>
