<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G11B27/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
STAHLFELD, PHILLIP ELLSWORTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62837994
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Motion based account recognition
</title>

<abstract>
A user establishes an account with an account management system and downloads a service application on a user computing device associated with the user. The user enters a service provider location and signs into a service application. A service camera device captures a video feed of one or more users within a visual field of the service camera device and a service computing device compares movement data received from user computing devices at the service provider location against movement of detected objects in the video feed to identify one or more users in the video feed. After identifying the one or more users within the video feed of the service camera device, in response to a particular user initiating a service request at the service computing device, the service computing device identifies the particular user at the service computing device as being within a service area of the video feed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method to identify users based on computing movement data of user computing devices and changes of positions of detected objects in video feeds, comprising: by a computing device: detecting, from a video feed, an object comprising an image of a user in a first position; determining a change in a position of the detected object in the video feed during a time period; receiving, from one or more user computing devices movement data indicating movement of each of the one or more user computing devices during the time period; providing the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices and visual data indicative of the change in position of the detected object in the video feed to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the movement data and the visual data; comparing, using the one or more machine-learned classification models, the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices to the visual data indicative of the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed to determine a correlation during the time period between the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed and particular movement data associated with a particular one of the one or more user computing devices; and based on the determined correlation, identifying the detected object in the video feed as a particular user corresponding to the particular user computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement data comprises one or more of a gyroscopic signature and an accelerometer signature.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, by the computing device: receiving a request to initiate a service request; and transmitting a user computing device identifier corresponding to the identified particular user computing device and a request to process the service request to an account management computing system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement data comprises a gyroscopic signature, wherein determining the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature to the movement signature.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising, by the computing device: receiving, from an account management computing system, data corresponding to one or more accounts of the particular user; displaying at least a portion of the data corresponding to the one or more accounts of the particular user; receiving an input of a selection of a particular account for use in the service request; and transmitting, to the account management computing system, the selection of the particular account, wherein the account management computing system processes the service request using the selected particular account.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the change in position of the detected object in the video feed during the time period comprises determining the change in position of the detected object from a first position to a second position, the method further comprising determining, by the computing device, that the second position of the detected object is within a defined area of the video feed comprising a service request area, wherein the request to process the service request is transmitted in response to determining that the second position of the detected object is within a service request area of the video feed.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the video feed comprises video of an environment external to the computing device including the particular user located in a proximity to the computing device.
9. A computer program product to identify users based on movement data of user computing devices and changes of positions of detected objects in video feeds, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-readable program instructions embodied thereon that when executed by a computer cause the computer to: detect, from a video feed, an object comprising an image of a user in a first position; determine a change in position of the detected object in the video feed over a time period; receive, from one or more user computing devices movement data indicating a movement of each of the one or more user computing devices during the time period; providing, the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices and visual data indicative of the change in position of the detected object in the video feed to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the movement data and the visual data; compare, using the one or more machine-learned models, the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices to the visual data indicative of the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed to determine a correlation during the time period between the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed and particular movement data associated with a particular one of the one or more user computing devices; and identify, based on the determined correlation, the detected object in the video feed as a particular user corresponding to the particular user computing device.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the movement data comprises one or more of a gyroscopic signature and an accelerometer signature.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprises computer-readable program instructions embodied thereon that when executed by the computer cause the computer to: receive a request to initiate a service request; and receive a request to initiate a service request; and transmit a user computing device identifier corresponding to the identified particular user computing device and a request to process a service request to an account management computing system.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the movement data comprises an accelerometer signature and a gyroscopic signature, wherein determining the change in position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature and the accelerometer signature against the movement signature.
13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprises computer-executable program instructions embodied thereon that when executed by the computer cause the computer to determine that a second position of the detected object is within a defined area of the video feed comprising a service request area, wherein the request to process the service request is transmitted in response to determining that the second position of the detected object is within the service request area of the video feed.
14. A system to identify users based on comparing movement data of user computing devices against changes of positions of detected objects in video feeds, comprising: a storage device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the storage device, wherein the processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the storage device to cause the system to: detect, within a video feed, an object comprising an image of a user from the video feed in a first position; determine a change in a position of the detected object in the video feed over a time period; receive, from one or more user computing devices movement data indicating a movement of each of the one or more user computing devices during the time period; provide the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices and visual data indicative of the change in position of the detected object in the video feed to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the movement data and the visual data; compare, using the one or more machine-learned models, the movement data received from each of the one or more user computing devices to the visual data indicative of the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed to determine a correlation during the time period between the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed and particular movement data associated with a particular one of the one or more user computing devices; and based on the determined correlation, identify the object in the video feed as a particular user corresponding to the particular user computing device.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the movement data comprises one or more of a gyroscopic signature and an accelerometer signature.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to execute computer-readable program instructions stored in the storage device to cause the system to: receive a request to initiate a service request; and transmit a user computing device identifier corresponding to the identified particular user computing device and a request to process a service request to an account management computing system.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein determining the change in position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object.
18. The system of claim 15 wherein the movement data comprises a gyroscopic signature and an accelerometer signature, wherein determining the change in position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature and the accelerometer signature against the movement signature.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to execute computer-executable program instructions stored on the storage device to cause the system to: receive, from an account management computing system, data corresponding to one or more accounts of the particular user; display at least some of the data corresponding to one or more accounts of the particular user; receive an input of a selection of a particular account for use in the service request; and transmit, to the account management computing system, the selection of the particular account, wherein the account management computing system processes the service request using the selected particular account.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to execute computer-readable program instructions stored on the storage device to cause the system to determine that a second position of the detected object is within a defined area of the video feed comprising a service request area, wherein the request to process the service request is transmitted in response to determining that the second position of the detected object is within the service request area of the video feed.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement data comprises an accelerometer signature, wherein determining the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the accelerometer signature to the movement signature.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement data comprises a gyroscopic signature and an accelerometer signature, wherein determining the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the detected object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the detected object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature and the accelerometer signature to the movement signature.
</claims>
</document>
