<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOODSITT, JEREMY
TRUONG, ANH
WALTER S. AUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140821
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, medium, and system for generating synthetic data
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for generating synthetic data are disclosed. A system may include one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions. The instructions may instruct the system to categorize consumer data based on a set of characteristics. The instructions may also instruct the system to receive a first request to generate a first synthetic dataset. The first request may specify a first requirement for at least one of the characteristics. The instructions may further instruct the system to retrieve, from the consumer data, a first subset of the consumer data satisfying the first requirement. The instructions may also instruct the system to provide the first subset of consumer data as input to a data model to generate the first synthetic dataset, and to provide the first synthetic dataset as training data to a machine-learning system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: categorizing consumer data based on a set of characteristics; receiving a first request to generate a first synthetic dataset, the first request specifying a first requirement for at least one of the characteristics; retrieving, from the consumer data, a first subset of the consumer data satisfying the first requirement; providing the first subset of consumer data as input to a data model to generate the first synthetic dataset; providing the first synthetic dataset as training data to a machine-learning system; receiving a second request to generate a second synthetic dataset, the second request specifying a second requirement for at least one of the characteristics, the second requirement comprising a requirement specified by the machine-learning system, based on a determination that the first synthetic dataset is insufficient for training the machine-learning system; and retrieving, from the consumer data, a second subset of consumer data satisfying the second requirement; providing the second subset of consumer data as input to the data model to generate the second synthetic dataset; and providing the second synthetic dataset as training data to the machine-learning system.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein providing the first synthetic dataset comprises providing the first synthetic dataset to a machine-learning system which utilizes synthetic datasets to determine a consumer behavior.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein providing the first synthetic dataset comprises providing the first synthetic dataset to a machine-learning system which utilizes synthetic datasets to determine a purchase recommendation.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first requirement comprises a user-specified requirement.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first requirement comprises a requirement specified by the machine-learning system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the consumer data comprises unstructured data.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the consumer data comprises structured data.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the second requirement further comprises a user-specified requirement.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving the second requirement from the machine learning-system.
10. A method, comprising: categorizing historical data based on a set of characteristics; receiving a first request to generate a first synthetic dataset, the first request specifying a first requirement for at least one of the characteristics; retrieving, from the historical data, a first subset of historical data satisfying the first requirement; providing the first subset of historical data as input to a data model to generate the first synthetic dataset; providing the first synthetic dataset as training data to a machine-learning system; receiving a second request to generate a second synthetic dataset, the second request specifying a second requirement for at least one of the characteristics, the second requirement comprising a requirement specified by the machine-learning system, based on a determination that the first synthetic dataset is insufficient for training the machine-learning system; retrieving, from the historical data, a second subset of historical data satisfying the second requirement; providing the second subset of historical data as input to the data model to generate the second synthetic dataset; and providing the second synthetic dataset as training data to the machine-learning system.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving the first requirement from a user.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving the first requirement from the machine-learning system.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the historical data comprises unstructured data.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the historical data comprises structured data.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving the second requirement from the machine-learning system.
16. A non-transitory memory storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a system to perform operations comprising: categorizing consumer data based on a set of characteristics; receiving a first request to generate a first synthetic dataset, the first request specifying a first requirement for at least one of the characteristics; retrieving, from the consumer data, a first subset of consumer data satisfying the first requirement; providing the first subset of consumer data as input to a data model to generate the first synthetic dataset; providing the first synthetic dataset as training data to a machine-learning system to determine at least one of a consumer behavior or a purchase recommendation; receiving a second request to generate a second synthetic dataset, the second request specifying a second requirement for at least one of the characteristics, the second requirement comprising a requirement specified by the machine-learning system, based on a determination that the first synthetic dataset is insufficient for training the machine-learning system; retrieving, from the historical data, a second subset of historical data satisfying the second requirement; providing the second subset of historical data as input to the data model to generate the second synthetic dataset; and providing the second synthetic dataset as training data to the machine-learning system.
17. The non-transitory memory of claim 16, wherein the consumer data comprises unstructured data.
18. The non-transitory memory of claim 16, wherein the consumer data comprises structured data.
</claims>
</document>
