<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/44,G06F9/451,G06F9/46,G06F9/48,G06F9/54,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAMMATIKAKIS IOANNIS
JANN, ANNETTE
KRENKLER, MICHAEL
WODTKE, DIRK
JANN, FLORIAN
VOUTTA, EMIL
KRUSE, MATTHIAS
STEINER, MARTIN
KIRCHFELD, STEFAN
STEFANOV, TZANKO
CABAHUG, MARIA
RICHTER, KAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58778852
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Personal digital assistant
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are system, method, and computer program product embodiments for managing completion of a task. An embodiment operates by receiving a selection of a collection configured to complete the task. The embodiment determines a context indicator for analyzing an application object in the selected collection. The embodiment processes the application object in based on the context indicator to generate information for completing the task. Another embodiment operates by receiving a selection of a collection configured to complete a task. The embodiment then determines that completion of the task requires solving a situation defined by a situation definition. The embodiment then identifies an anchor application object in the selected collection based on the situation definition. The embodiment then generates related information and a set of actions for solving the situation based on the anchor application object and the situation definition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for managing completion of a task in a personal assistant application, comprising: receiving a selection of a collection configured to complete the task, the collection including a first application object comprising a field exposing a data item of a first logical entity of a first application and an action exposing action logic of the first application; generating a situation definition for a solving a situation based on analysis of a plurality of collections, the situation definition defining a trigger and a condition; determining that completion of the task requires solving the situation defined by the situation definition, the determining comprising: executing the trigger defined in the situation definition, wherein the trigger controls evaluation of the condition defined in the situation definition; and in response to executing the trigger, determining the condition is valid; in response to the determining that completion of the task requires solving the situation, identifying the first application object in the collection based on the situation definition; generating related information and an action for solving the situation based on the first application object and the situation definition, the generating comprising: receiving a second application object associated with the first application object based on a path expression in the situation definition, wherein the second application object represents a second logical entity in a second application; and receiving, from the second application, the action for solving the situation object based on a manifest file associated with the second application; and outputting the related information and the action for solving the situation.
2. The method of claim 1, the outputting comprising: generating a user interface for displaying the action for solving the situation based on a template associated with the second application object.
3. The method of claim 1, the further comprising: generating a notification based on the first application object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the situation definition comprises performing machine learning analysis on the collection.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: creating the first application object in the collection based on a user input, wherein the user input includes at least one of textual data, voice data, gesture data, visual data, or a combination of textual data, voice data, gesture data, and visual data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the collection comprises a plurality of homogeneous application objects or a plurality of heterogeneous application objects.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the condition includes an application rule, query, or application relevant event.
8. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive, by a first application, a selection of a collection configured to complete a task, the collection including an anchor application object comprising a field exposing a data item of a logical entity of second application and an action exposing action logic of the second application; generate a situation definition for a solving a situation based on analysis of a plurality of collections, the situation definition defining a trigger and a condition; determine, by the first application, that completion of the task requires solving the situation defined by the situation definition, wherein to determine the at least one processor is further configured to: execute the trigger defined in the situation definition, wherein the trigger controls evaluation of the condition defined in the situation definition; and determine the condition is valid in response to executing the trigger; identify, by the first application, the anchor application object in the collection based on the situation definition in response to completion of the task requiring solving the situation; generate, by the first application, related information and a set of actions for solving the situation based on the anchor application object and the situation definition; and output, by the first application, the related information and the set of actions for solving the situation, wherein to output the at least one processor is further configured to: generate a user interface for displaying the related information and the set of actions for solving the situation based on a template associated with the situation definition.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to generate the situation definition, the at least one processor is further configured to perform machine learning analysis on the collection.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: generate a notification based on the first application object.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: create the first application object based on a user input, wherein the user input includes at least one of textual data, voice data, gesture data, visual data, or a combination of textual data, voice data, gesture data, and visual data.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the condition includes an application rule, query, or application relevant event.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the collection comprises a plurality of homogeneous application objects or a plurality of heterogeneous application objects.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is configured to calculate a relevancy score based on the first application object and the situation definition, and wherein to output the at least one processor is configured to: output a subset of the related information and the action for solving the situation based on the relevancy score.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one computing device, causes the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a first application, a selection of a collection configured to complete a task, the collection including an anchor application object comprising a field exposing a data item of a logical entity of a second application and an action exposing action logic of the second application; generating a situation definition for a solving a situation based on analysis of a plurality of collections, the situation definition defining a trigger and a condition; determining, by the first application, that completion of the task requires solving the situation defined by the situation definition, the determining comprising: executing the trigger defined in the situation definition, wherein the trigger controls evaluation of the condition defined in the situation definition; in response to executing the trigger, determining the condition is valid; in response to the determining that completion of the task requires solving the situation, identifying, by the first application, the anchor application object in the collection based on the situation definition; generating, by the first application, related information and a set of actions for solving the situation based on the anchor application object and the situation definition; calculating a relevancy score based on the anchor application object and the situation definition; and outputting, by the first application, a subset of the related information and the set of actions for solving the situation based on the relevancy score.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 15, the outputting comprising: generating a user interface for displaying the subset of the related information and the set of actions for solving the situation based on a template associated with the situation definition.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 15, the operations further comprising: creating the first application object in the collection based on a user input, wherein the user input includes at least one of textual data, voice data, gesture data, visual data, or a combination of textual data, voice data, gesture data, and visual data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 15, wherein generating the situation definition comprises performing machine learning analysis on the collection.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 15, wherein the condition includes an application rule, query, or application relevant event.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 15, wherein the collection comprises a plurality of homogeneous application objects or a plurality of heterogeneous application objects.
</claims>
</document>
