<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/45,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LINDQUIST, BENJAMIN
SHERIF, TIMUR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66476387
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and processes for utilizing information collected for enhanced verification
</title>

<abstract>
A system for verifying a user identity. The system comprises one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions. The processors are configured to receive information associated with an account of a user. The processors are further configured to generate a first profile, where the first profile being related to the user. The processors also receives an indication that the account is accessed by an accessor through an accessor device; and receive, from the accessor device, identity data comprising a plurality of data subsets associated with the accessor. The processors are configured to store the data subsets in respective clusters. The processors are further configured generate cluster analyses by analyzing the data subsets in respective clusters; and output the cluster analyses to node instances that weighs the cluster analyses outputs. The processors also generate a second profile, the second profile related to the accessor and being based on the received identity data and weighted cluster analysis. And the processors are configured to determine a likelihood factor that the accessor is the user based on a comparison of the first profile and the second profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for verifying the identity of a user, comprising: receiving information associated with an account of the user, generating an initial profile for the user, receiving an indication that the account is accessed by an accessor, receiving, from a source, identity data comprising a plurality of data subsets associated with the accessor, storing the data subsets in respective clusters, wherein the clusters are nonlinear artificial neural network computational elements; analyzing the stored data subsets; outputting, to node instances, results of the analyzing as cluster outputs, wherein the node instances are nonlinear artificial neural network computation elements based on a set of the clusters; weighting the cluster outputs by the node instances; generating a profile for the accessor based on the received identity data and the weighted cluster outputs; and determining a likelihood factor that the accessor is the user, based on a comparison of the user profile and the accessor profile.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting identity data by the source device from the accessor through sensors; and receiving the identity data from the source device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the received identity data further comprises: accessor data comprising at least one of username, password, typing pattern, typing cadence, typing error rate, mouse movement, mouse scrolling rate, mouse clicking rate, mouse clicking error rate, frequency of mouse use, finger pressure, finger error rate, biometrics, or reading rate; and source data comprising at least one of software version, browser type, or connection speed.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a plurality of sets of identity data; and generating profile rules for weighting cluster outputs and for weighting sets of identity data received from different sources.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein analyzing the stored data subsets comprises analyzing the stored data subsets based on the profile rules.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein weighting the cluster outputs comprises weighting the cluster outputs based on the profile rules.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising grouping the clusters into tiers based on the profile rules, and wherein weighting the cluster outputs comprises weighting the cluster outputs based on the tiers.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising verifying that the accessor is the user if the likelihood factor is above a threshold.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising modifying the user profile with data from the accessor profile if the accessor is verified as the user.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising storing the user profile in an account provider database.
11. An account provider device for verifying the identity of a user, comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving information associated with an account of the user, generating an initial profile for the user, receiving an indication that the account is accessed by an accessor, receiving, from a source, identity data comprising a plurality of data subsets associated with the accessor, storing the data subsets in respective clusters, wherein the clusters are nonlinear artificial neural network computational elements; analyzing the stored data subsets; outputting, to node instances, results of the analyzing as cluster outputs, wherein the node instances are nonlinear artificial neural network computation elements based on a set of the clusters; weighing the cluster outputs by the node instances, generating a profile for the accessor based on the received identity data and the weighted cluster outputs, and determining a likelihood factor that the accessor is the user, based on a comparison of the user profile and the accessor profile.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: collecting identity data by the source device from the accessor through sensors; and receiving the identity data from the source device.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the received identity data further comprises: accessor data comprising at least one of username, password, typing pattern, typing cadence, typing error rate, mouse movement, mouse scrolling rate, mouse clicking rate, mouse clicking error rate, frequency of mouse use, finger pressure, finger error rate, biometrics, or reading rate, and source data comprising at least one of software version, browser type, or connection speed.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a plurality of sets of identity data; and the operations further comprise grouping the clusters into tiers based on the profile rules, and weighting the cluster outputs, comprises weighting the cluster outputs based on the tiers.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein analyzing the stored data subsets comprises analyzing the stored data subsets based on the profile rules.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein weighting the cluster outputs comprises weighting the cluster outputs based on the profile rules.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein: the operations further comprise grouping the clusters into tiers based on the profile rules, and weighting the cluster outputs comprises weighting the cluster outputs based on the tiers.
18. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise verifying that the accessor is the user if the likelihood factor is above a threshold.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise modifying the user profile with data from the accessor profile if the accessor is verified as the user.
20. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise storing the user profile in a database.
</claims>
</document>
