<document>

<filing_date>
2016-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/2457,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
FANG, MIAOQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59227066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods to rank job candidates based on machine learning model
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer readable media are configured to determine a training set to train a machine learning model. A feature set for the model is determined. The model is trained based on the training set and the feature set to determine a score reflecting a probability that each user in an evaluation set of users is qualified for employment with an organization. A ranking of users in the evaluation set is provided based on the score determined for each user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining, by a computing system, a training set for a machine learning model, wherein the training set includes employees of an organization who are users of a social networking system; determining, by the computing system, a feature set associated with each member of the training set, wherein features in the feature set and their associated values are provided by the social networking system; training, by the computing system, the machine learning model based on feature sets associated with members in the training set; receiving, by the computing system, an indication provided by an employee of an organization through a user interface to identify job candidates for the organization; determining, by the computing system, a plurality of connections of the employee of the organization on the social networking system; determining, by the computing system, using the machine learning model, a score reflecting a probability that each of the plurality of connections of the employee is qualified for employment with the organization; and ranking, by the computing system, the plurality of connections based on the score determined for each connection.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training set further includes users who are employees of a second organization of a same organization type as the organization.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feature set comprises at least one of a number of connections of a user in the training set on a social networking system, a number of days since the user performed an action on the social networking system, a number of requests by the user to initiate connections on the social networking system, a number of entities who are following the user on the social networking system, a number of entities followed by the user on the social networking system, college attended by the user, graduate school attended by the user, degrees obtained by the user, concentrations of study by the user, or employers of the user excluding employers of the same type as the organization.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining a feature set further comprises: de-duplicating features in the feature set.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining a feature set further comprises: determining that a feature value is likely false based on a veracity score that does not satisfy a threshold veracity value; and re-labeling the feature value.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the ranking the plurality of connections further comprises: sorting the plurality of connections based on associated scores determined by the model; adjusting the scores for connections who are current employees or previous employees of the organization; and generating an ordered list of scores and associated connections.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: creating a look up table to maintain the ordered list of scores and associated connections.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising: in response to an indication provided by a particular user through a user interface to identify and rank job candidates for the organization, selecting connections of the particular user and their associated scores from the look up table.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: presenting through the user interface the selected connections in an order based on their associated scores.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the features in the feature set are numerical or categorical.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the number of features in the feature set is any suitable value.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the features in the feature set are tailored to the organization type.
13. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: determining a training set for a machine learning model, wherein the training set includes employees of an organization who are users of a social networking system; determining a feature set associated with each member of the training set wherein features in the feature set and their associated values are provided by the social networking system; training the machine learning model based on feature sets associated with members in the training set; receiving an indication provided by an employee of an organization through a user interface to identify job candidates for the organization; determining a plurality of connections of the employee of the organization on the social networking system; determining, using the machine learning model, a score reflecting a probability that each of the plurality of connections of the employee is qualified for employment with the organization; and ranking the plurality of connections based on the score determined for each connection.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the training set further includes users who are employees of a second organization of the same organization type as the organization.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the feature set comprises at least one of a number of connections of a user in the training set on a social networking system, a number of days since the user performed an action on the social networking system, a number of requests by the user to initiate connections on the social networking system, a number of entities who are following the user on the social networking system, a number of entities followed by the user on the social networking system, college attended by the user, graduate school attended by the user, degrees obtained by the user, concentrations of study by the user, or employers of the user excluding employers of the same type as the organization.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the determining a feature set further comprises: de-duplicating features in the feature set.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: determining a training set for a machine learning model, wherein the training set includes employees of an organization who are users of a social networking system; determining a feature set associated with each member of the training set wherein features in the feature set and their associated values are provided by the social networking system; training the machine learning model based on feature sets associated with members in the training set; receiving an indication provided by an employee of an organization through a user interface to identify job candidates for the organization; determining a plurality of connections of the employee of the organization on the social networking system; determining, using the machine learning model, a score reflecting a probability that each of the plurality of connections of the employee is qualified for employment with the organization; and ranking the plurality of connections based on the score determined for each connection.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the training set further includes users who are employees of a second organization of the same organization type as the organization.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the feature set comprises at least one of a number of connections of a user in the training set on a social networking system, a number of days since the user performed an action on the social networking system, a number of requests by the user to initiate connections on the social networking system, a number of entities who are following the user on the social networking system, a number of entities followed by the user on the social networking system, college attended by the user, graduate school attended by the user, degrees obtained by the user, concentrations of study by the user, or employers of the user excluding employers of the same type as the organization.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determining a feature set further comprises: de-duplicating features in the feature set.
</claims>
</document>
