<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/27,H04B17/345,H04B17/382,H04B17/391,H04W12/00,H04W4/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UHANA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANEMOGIANNIS, ALEXANDROS
GUDIPATI, ADITYA
HARIHARAN, SRIKANTH
SINGH, SARABJOT
SHARMA, MANU
RAJA, ADNAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68838785
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for mobile network interference analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing information describing mobile network interference experienced by a mobile network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for interference analysis, comprising: accessing mobile network telemetry data generated by at least one infrastructure element of a mobile network, the telemetry data including at least time-frequency characteristic data for each of a plurality of base station receive antennas of the mobile network; detecting interference at at least one base station receive antenna by using at least the accessed time-frequency characteristic data; for each of a plurality of sets of time-frequency characteristic data corresponding to the detected interference; extracting an interference signature from the associated time-frequency characteristic data, and generating classification information for the extracted interference signature based on interference signatures extracted from time-frequency characteristic data of related base stations; generating interference information based on at least classification information generated for at least one interference signature; and providing the generated interference information to at least one of an operator device and an infrastructure element of the mobile network, the interference information including probabilities of interference source locations by: determining a power level for each of a plurality of related interference signatures; and with a trained Angle of Arrival ("AoA") estimator, determining an interference source probability for at least one geographic location by using at least the determined power levels, the interference source probability indicating a likelihood of an interference source of the plurality of related interference signatures being located within a respective geographic location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the interference information is a graphical user interface that identifies the classification information generated for the at least one interference signature, wherein the user interface identifies the probabilities of interference source locations, wherein the user interface identifies a number of user communication sessions impacted by each interference signature identified by the user interface, and wherein the interference analysis system provides the graphical user interface to the operator device.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: the operator device displaying the graphical user interface.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the interference information includes a control parameter, and wherein the interference analysis system automatically controls at least one infrastructure element of the mobile network by using the control parameter.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing radio information from at least one user device that is communicatively coupled to the mobile network, and wherein detecting interference comprises detecting interference by using the accessed radio information and the accessed time-frequency characteristic data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating classification information for the extracted interference signature based on interference signatures extracted from time-frequency characteristic data of related base stations comprises: identifying related base stations by using session handoff information included in the accessed telemetry data.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising, with a trained model constructed to predict an expected quality of service for a user session based on the accessed telemetry data, determining the signature identified by the user interface.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising: with the interference analysis system, generating a heat map that identifies the probabilities of interference source locations within a geographic area by using the interference source probabilities.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: with the interference analysis system, generating a rank ordered set of polygons, each polygon representing a closed geographical region for a probable interference source location by using the interference source probabilities.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the AoA estimator determines interference source probabilities by using at least one of radio propagation characteristics of a related transmit frequency, relative locations of base stations associated with the plurality of related interference signatures, geospatial data, and building locations.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein generating classification information for an extracted interference signature comprises: with an inherent network pattern classifier, determining whether the extracted interference signature identifies interference inherent in the mobile network, and generating the classification information for the extracted interference signature based on the determination performed by the inherent network pattern classifier.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: at least one infrastructure element of a mobile network providing at least the telemetry data to the interference analysis system.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating labeled time-frequency characteristic data that identifies sets of time-frequency characteristic data that represent interference; and training an interference detection model by using the generated labeled time-frequency characteristic data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein generating labeled time-frequency characteristic data comprises: accessing telemetry data that includes at least one set of time-frequency characteristic data for at least one receive antenna, identifying at least a first Key Performance Indicator ("KPI") associated with each time-frequency characteristic data, comparing the first KPI of each time-frequency characteristic data with at least one threshold, and labeling each time-frequency characteristic data based on a result of the respective comparison.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating labeled training data; and training a classification engine using the labeled training data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein generating labeled training data comprises labeling portions of time-frequency characteristic data that correspond to interference signatures.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein generating labeled training data comprises labeling portions of time-frequency characteristic data that correspond to interference signatures of interference inherent in the mobile network.
18. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating labeled training data for training the AoA (Angle of Arrival) estimator; and training the AoA estimator by using the labeled training data for the AoA estimator.
19. A system comprising: a plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements; an interference analysis system communicatively coupled to at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements, the interference analysis system comprising a trained interference detection engine and a classification engine; and an operator device communicatively coupled to the interference analysis system, wherein the interference analysis system is constructed to receive telemetry data from at least one of the plurality of mobile network infrastructure elements, telemetry data including information for a plurality of base station receive antennas of the mobile network, wherein the detection engine is constructed to detect interference at at least one base station receive antenna by using at least the telemetry data, wherein the classification engine is constructed to classify each detected instance of interference by using time-frequency characteristics of the detected instance, as identified by the telemetry data, wherein the interference analysis system is constructed to: generate interference information for each classified instance of interference, the interference information identifying at least a classification for each classified instance of interference, and send the generated interference information to the operator device, the interference information including probabilities of interference source locations by: determining a power level for each of a plurality of related instances of interference; and with a trained Angle of Arrival ("AoA") estimator, determining an interference source probability for at least one geographic location by using at least the determined power levels, the interference source probability indicating a likelihood of an interference source of the plurality of related instances of interference being located within a respective geographic location.
20. A method for interference analysis comprising: receiving from an infrastructure element of a mobile network, telemetry data including information for a plurality of base station receive antennas of the mobile network; detecting interference for at least one base station receive antenna by using at least the telemetry data; classifying each detected instance of interference by using time-frequency characteristics of the detected instance, as identified by the telemetry data; prioritizing each classified instance of interference based on a corresponding number of affected user communication sessions; generating a spatial heat map that identifies probable locations of interference sources for at least one classified instance of interference by: determining a power level for each of a plurality of related interference signatures, each interference signature associated with the classified instance of interference; and with a trained Angle of Arrival ("AoA") estimator, determining an interference source probability for at least one geographic location by using at least the determined power levels, the interference source probability indicating a likelihood of an interference source of the plurality of related interference signatures being located within a respective geographic location; generating interference information for each classified instance of interference, the interference information identifying at least a classification for each classified instance of interference and a corresponding priority; and sending the spatial heat map and the generated interference information to an operator device.
</claims>
</document>
