<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
1999-08-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/30,F24F11/32,F24F11/46,F24F11/62,F24F110/00,F24F130/40,F24F140/60,F25B31/00,F25B49/02,G05B13/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUDSON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMIDT, DOUGLAS
ZUGIBE KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69953586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for measuring and improving efficiency in refrigeration systems
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for optimizing an efficiency of a refrigeration system, comprising means for measuring a refrigeration efficiency of an operating refrigeration system; means for altering a process variable of the refrigeration system during efficiency measurement; and a processor for calculating a process variable level which achieves an optimum efficiency. The process variables may include refrigerant charge and refrigerant oil concentration in evaporator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A refrigeration system controller, comprising: a sensor input port configured to receive sensor signals selectively dependent on and representing a thermodynamic operating state of a refrigeration system and being sufficient to determine a thermodynamic operating efficiency of the refrigeration system; a computational model of operation of a refrigeration system, the computational model comprising parameters derived from the sensor input and a plurality of control signals for controlling operation of the refrigeration system over time; at least one automated processor configured to produce the plurality of control signals, based on at least the computational model of the refrigeration system, the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system, and the sensor signals; wherein the at least one automated processor is configured to: determine changes in the thermodynamic operating efficiency of the refrigeration system with respect to the thermodynamic operating state over time, and in at least one mode, produce the control signals to achieve a predicted increased optimum net efficiency of the refrigeration system at the thermodynamic operating state over time, by initial alteration of the thermodynamic operating state to a transient thermodynamic operating state less efficient than a preceding thermodynamic operating state, and subsequent alteration of the refrigeration system to a persistent thermodynamic operating state more efficient than each of the transient thermodynamic operating state and the preceding thermodynamic operating state; and a control output port configured to communicate the plurality of control signals for controlling operation of the refrigeration system over time.
2. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the computational model is an adaptive computational model.
3. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the computational model comprises an artificial neural network.
4. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to determine a varying refrigeration system response timeconstant, and to control the refrigeration system over time selectively in dependence on the varying timeconstant, to damp an oscillation of the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system.
5. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to predict a need for refrigeration system maintenance while the refrigeration system remains operational, further comprising a maintenance signal output port configured to communicate a maintenance signal generated by the at least one automated processor which is selectively dependent on at least the predicted need for refrigeration system maintenance.
6. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 5, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to predict the need for refrigeration system maintenance based on adaptive criteria which differ dependent on a history of sensor signals and the plurality of control signals.
7. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 5, further comprising an interface port configured to communicate with a local area network, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to communicate the predicted the need for refrigeration system maintenance over the local area network through the interface port.
8. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, further comprising an Internet communication interface port, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to communicate at least one of the sensor signals and the plurality of control signals through the Internet communication interface port.
9. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 5, wherein the at least one automated processor is further configured to determine a probability of refrigeration system malfunction and to produce a probable malfunction signal selectively dependent on the determined probability of refrigeration system malfunction.
10. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the at least one automated processor is configured to determine a cost efficiency of operation of the refrigeration system.
11. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the optimum net efficiency over time is based on at least a predicted service cost.
12. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the at least one automated processor is configured to concurrently produce at least two distinct control signals, each distinct control signal being adapted to independently control different physical elements of the refrigeration system.
13. The refrigeration system controller according to claim 1, wherein the at least one automated processor is configured to determine the optimum net efficiency based on at least a value attributed to removing heat by the refrigeration system.
14. A method of controlling a refrigeration system, comprising: receiving sensor signals selectively dependent on a thermodynamic operating state of a refrigeration system; a computational model of a refrigeration system for processing by at least one automated processor, comprising computational model parameters derived from the sensor signals and a plurality of control signals for the refrigeration system over time; producing the plurality of control signals with at least one automated processor, based on at least the computational model, the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system, and the sensor signals; determining changes in an efficiency of the refrigeration system over time, comprising changes in a thermodynamic efficiency of the refrigeration system; producing the control signals based on a predicted optimum net efficiency over time, by transiently altering the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system to a less efficient thermodynamic operating state than an efficiency of a prior thermodynamic operating state, and subsequently persistently altering the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system to a more efficient thermodynamic operating state than either the less efficient thermodynamic operating state or the prior thermodynamic operating state.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the computational model is an adaptive computational model.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the computational model comprises an artificial neural network.
17. The method according to claim 14, further comprising determining a time-varying refrigeration system response timeconstant, and controlling the refrigeration system selectively in dependence on the time-varying timeconstant.
18. The method according to claim 14, further comprising communicating at least one of the sensor signals and the control signals over the Internet.
19. The method according to claim 14, further comprising determining a cost efficiency of operation of the refrigeration system.
20. An automated controller for controlling a refrigeration system, comprising: a sensor input port configured to receive sensor signals selectively dependent on a thermodynamic operating state of a refrigeration system; a dynamic computational model of the refrigeration system, comprising computational model parameters derived from the sensor input and a plurality of control signals for the refrigeration system over time; at least one automated processor configured to produce the plurality of control signals, based on at least the computational model, the thermodynamic operating state, and the sensor signals; wherein the at least one automated processor is configured to produce the control signals to alter the thermodynamic operating state of the refrigeration system to a lower efficiency operating state that a preexisting thermodynamic operating state, before assuming a higher efficiency thermodynamic operating state, the control signals being generated to optimize a predicted net efficiency of the refrigeration system over time; and a control output port configured to present the plurality of control signals.
</claims>
</document>
