<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/30,F24F11/62,F24F11/65,F24F110/10,F24F110/12,F24F110/50,F24F120/12,F24F140/50,G05B13/04,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEY, KUNTAL
NAGAR, SEEMA
VACULIN, ROMAN
AHUJA, KARAN
BANSAL, HEENA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62841104
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Regulating environmental conditions within an event venue
</title>

<abstract>
A venue occupant comfort system, comprises a processor that stores computer executable components stored in memory. A plurality of sensors sense ambient conditions associated with exterior and interior conditions of a venue. A context component infers or determines context of an occupant of the venue. A crowd estimation component infers, based at least in part on mining social networks, size of crowd expected at the venue. A comfort model component implicitly and explicitly trained on occupant comfort related data analyzes information from the plurality of sensors, the crowd estimation component and context component. A comfort controller adjusts environmental conditions of the venue based at least in part on output of the comfort model component. The adjustments to venue environment can optionally be differentiated by zone.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: sensing, using one or more sensors, ambient conditions associated with conditions of a venue; inferring number of occupants expected to occupy the venue and estimated arrival and departure times; inferring context of an occupant of the venue; analyzing information from the group consisting of: one or more of the sensed ambient conditions, inferred number of occupants expected to occupy the venue and estimated arrival and departure times, and inferred occupant context information using a comfort model component trained on occupant comfort related data and prior accuracy of inferred crowd size versus actual crowd size that occupied the venue; building comfort profiles for high frequency users of the venue, wherein at least one of the comfort profiles contains one or more comfort preferences of a user learned from social media data mining, wherein the one or more comfort preferences comprise at least one of temperature preference, volume preference, music preference, or lighting preference; and adjusting one or more environmental conditions of a zone of the venue in response to the analyzed ambient conditions, the occupant context information, and the comfort profiles.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising sensing occupant body temperature.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising inferring selected from a group consisting of: occupant action prior to entering the venue; amount of clothing worn by the occupant, and an optimal environmental condition suitable for a majority of occupants of the venue.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising employing facial recognition using a pattern recognition component to infer a comfort level of at least one of the one or more occupants, and wherein the inference is based on one or more facial expressions.
5. A computer-implemented method, comprising: sensing, by one or more first sensors, ambient conditions of a venue; inferring, by one or more second sensors, context of one or more occupants in the venue, including at least occupant activity in the venue and occupant attire; identifying, by image pattern recognition, the one or more occupants; building comfort profiles for the one or more occupants, wherein at least one of the comfort profiles contains one or more comfort preferences of an identified occupant learned via social media data mining, wherein the one or more comfort preferences comprise at least one of temperature preference, volume preference, music preference, or lighting preference; analyzing the ambient conditions, the inferred occupant context, and the occupant comfort profiles by a comfort model component trained on occupant comfort related data to determine a strategy to adjust one or more environmental conditions of a zone in the venue to improve aggregate comfort of the one or more occupants; and adjusting the one or more environmental conditions of the zone in the venue based on the determined strategy.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising employing facial recognition using a pattern recognition component to infer a comfort level of at least one of the one or more occupants, based on one or more facial expressions of the at least one of the one or more occupants.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the inferred occupant context includes occupant action prior to entering the venue.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include an air temperature preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include an air temperature in the zone in the venue.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a noise volume preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a noise volume in the zone in the venue.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a lighting intensity preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a lighting intensity in the zone in the venue.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a music genre preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a music genre in the zone in the venue.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the inferred occupant context includes at least one of blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate, body temperature, or blood oxygen saturation, measured via one or more biometric sensors.
13. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: sense, by one or more first sensors, ambient conditions of a venue; infer, by one or more second sensors, context of one or more occupants in the venue, including at least occupant activity in the venue and occupant attire; identify, by image pattern recognition, the one or more occupants; build comfort profiles for the one or more occupants, wherein at least one of the comfort profiles contains one or more comfort preferences of an identified occupant learned via social media data mining, wherein the one or more comfort preferences comprise at least one of temperature preference, volume preference, music preference, or lighting preference; analyze the ambient conditions, the inferred occupant context, and the occupant comfort profiles by a comfort model component trained on occupant comfort related data to determine a strategy to adjust one or more environmental conditions of a zone in the venue to improve aggregate comfort of the one or more occupants; and adjust the one or more environmental conditions of the zone in the venue based on the determined strategy.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the computer executable instructions further cause the processor to employ facial recognition using a pattern recognition component to infer a comfort level of at least one of the one or more occupants, based on one or more facial expressions of the at least one of the one or more occupants.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the inferred occupant context includes occupant action prior to entering the venue.
16. The compute program product of claim 13, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include an air temperature preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include an air temperature in the zone in the venue.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a noise volume preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a noise volume in the zone in the venue.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a lighting intensity preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a lighting intensity in the zone in the venue.
19. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the comfort preferences of the occupant comfort profiles include a music genre preference, and wherein the one or more environmental conditions adjusted according to the determined strategy include a music genre in the zone in the venue.
20. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the inferred occupant context includes at least one of blood pressure, heart rate, breathing rate, body temperature, or blood oxygen saturation, measured via one or more biometric sensors.
</claims>
</document>
