<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/10,G01S17/42,G01S17/93,G01S17/931,G01S7/484,G01S7/486,G01S7/4865,G01S7/487,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DROZ, PIERRE-YVES
SHAND, MARK
VERGHESE, SIMON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62107754
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for protecting a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) device
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are methods and systems for protecting a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) device against external light that is originated at a light source other than a light source of the LIDAR device and that is being emitted towards the LIDAR device. In particular, the LIDAR device may be equipped with a mitigation system that includes an interference filter, an absorptive filter, an adaptive filter, and/or a spatial filter. Additionally or alternatively, the LIDAR device may be operated to carry out reactive and/or proactive mitigation operations. For example, the LIDAR device may be operated to vary over time characteristics with which light is being emitted and to only detect light having characteristics that match the characteristics with which light is being emitted. In another example, the LIDAR device may be operated to activate a shutter to block the external light from being detected by the LIDAR device.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A light detection and ranging (LIDAR) device comprising: a transmitter, wherein the transmitter is configured to emit light into an environment, wherein the transmitter includes a light source that is configured to generate the light emitted into the environment; a receiver, wherein the receiver has one or more detectors configured to detect light while scanning the environment, wherein the receiver is configured to focus light along an optical path to the one or more detectors; a housing, wherein the transmitter and the receiver are disposed within the housing; and a mitigation system arranged to protect operation of the LIDAR device against external light that is originated at a light source other than the light source included in the transmitter and that is being emitted towards the LIDAR device, wherein the mitigation system includes at least a spatial filter positioned in the optical path, wherein the spatial filter comprises a surface having a plurality of circular holes through which light can travel.
2. The LIDAR device of claim 1, further comprising: a connector arrangement, wherein the connector arrangement is configured to couple the LIDAR device to a vehicle, and wherein the vehicle includes a control system that is configured to operate the vehicle based at least on scans by the LIDAR device of an environment around the vehicle.
3. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the mitigation system being arranged to protect operation of the LIDAR device against external light comprises the mitigation system being arranged to protect operation of the LIDAR device against external light originated at an external light-producing device.
4. The LIDAR device of claim 3, wherein the external light-producing device is arranged to generate external light having one or more particular wavelengths, and wherein the mitigation system being arranged to protect operation of the LIDAR device against external light originated at the external light-producing device comprises the mitigation system being configured to filter out external light that has the one or more particular wavelengths.
5. The LIDAR device of claim 4, wherein the external light-producing device is a laser pointer, and wherein the one or more particular wavelengths include a wavelength of 473 nm.
6. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the housing is stationary, and wherein the transmitter and the receiver are configured to rotate within the stationary housing during scans by the LIDAR device.
7. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an absorptive filter positioned in the optical path.
8. The LIDAR device of claim 7, wherein the absorptive filter comprises compounds that absorb one or more particular wavelengths of light and that are incorporated into glass or plastic.
9. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an interference filter positioned in the optical path.
10. The LIDAR device of claim 9, wherein the interference filter is configured as a longpass filter, a shortpass filter, or a bandpass filter.
11. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an adaptive filter positioned in the optical path, wherein the adaptive filter is configurable to filter out one or more select wavelengths of light based on characteristics of an electrical signal being applied to the adaptive filter.
12. The LIDAR device of claim 11, wherein the characteristics of the electrical signal comprise voltage or current, and wherein the adaptive filter is composed of a liquid crystal having light transmittance characteristics controllable by the voltage or current being applied.
13. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an adaptive filter positioned in the optical path, wherein the adaptive filter is configured to become opaque when the adaptive filter is under threshold high intensity illumination.
14. The LIDAR device of claim 13, wherein the adaptive filter being configured to become opaque when the adaptive filter is under threshold high intensity illumination comprises the adaptive filter being configured to filter a particular wavelength of light when the adaptive filter is under the threshold high intensity illumination at the particular wavelength of light.
15. The LIDAR device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of circular holes are formed on the surface in accordance with a spatial pattern.
16. The LIDAR device of claim 15, wherein the spatial pattern comprises the circular holes of the plurality being equally spaced throughout the surface.
17. A vehicle comprising: one or more wheels positioned at a bottom side of the vehicle; a light detection and ranging (LIDAR) device positioned at a top side of the vehicle opposite to the bottom side, wherein the LIDAR device comprises: a transmitter, wherein the transmitter is configured to emit light into an environment around the vehicle, wherein the transmitter includes a light source that is configured to generate the light emitted into the environment; a receiver, wherein the receiver has one or more detectors configured to detect light while scanning the environment, wherein the receiver is configured to focus light along an optical path to the one or more detectors; a housing, wherein the transmitter and the receiver are disposed within the housing; and a mitigation system arranged to protect operation of the LIDAR device against external light that is originated at a light source other than the light source included in the transmitter and that is being emitted towards the LIDAR device, wherein the mitigation system includes at least a spatial filter positioned in the optical path, wherein the spatial filter comprises a surface having a plurality of circular holes through which light can travel.
18. The vehicle of claim 17, further comprising: a control system configured to operate the vehicle based at least on scans by the LIDAR device of the environment around the vehicle.
19. The vehicle of claim 17, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an absorptive filter positioned in the optical path.
20. The vehicle of claim 17, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an interference filter positioned in the optical path.
21. The vehicle of claim 17, wherein the mitigation system further comprises an adaptive filter positioned in the optical path.
</claims>
</document>
