<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F42C13/00,G02B27/01,G06K9/00,G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Chosen Realities, LLC
Chosen Realities, LLC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWY, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74180635
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device performing simultaneous localization and mapping
</title>

<abstract>
A peripheral device that is used with a mixed reality system is thrown by the user of the mixed reality system and captures scene and mapping data of the area the peripheral is thrown into. Upon capturing the scene and mapping data, the peripheral transmits the data (in some embodiments, including processed results of evaluation of the data) to the mixed reality system. The mixed reality system displays a visual representation of the scene and mapping data on a near eye display. In some embodiments, the visual representation appears in real space enabling an effect where the user of the mixed reality system can see through walls or other obstructions. In some embodiments, the peripheral is configured to detonate upon the satisfaction of a variable set of conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A projectable device, comprising: a detonation charge; one or more cameras; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the detonation charge and the one or more cameras; and memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor, the memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: establishing a wireless pairing between the projectable device and a mixed reality (MR) system, the wireless pairing enabling communication between the projectable device and the MR system; receiving scene and mapping data for an environment in proximity to the projectable device, the scene and mapping data captured by the one or more cameras; receiving an indication to transition the projectable device from a low power mode to an active mode, wherein the scene and mapping data is captured by the one or more cameras when the protectable device is in the active mode, and the indication is provided through manipulation of a switch or a pin on the projectable device; transmitting the scene and mapping data to the MR system through the wireless pairing; and initiating a detonation of the projectable device using the detonation charge.
2. The projectable device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: analyzing the scene and mapping data to generate information describing a presence of one or more people in proximity to the projectable device and machine recognition of a characteristic pertaining to the one or more people, wherein the characteristic comprises an identification of the one or more people as a friend or foe; and transmitting the information to the MR system through the wireless pairing.
3. The projectable device of claim 2, wherein the detonation is initiated based at least partly on the machine recognition of the characteristic.
4. The projectable device of claim 1, wherein the indication is provided through an activation instruction that is transmitted to the projectable device from the MR system through the wireless pairing.
5. The projectable device of claim 1, wherein the detonation is initiated responsive to a detonation instruction received from the MR system through the wireless pairing.
6. The projectable device of claim 1, wherein the detonation is initiated responsive to motion data indicating that the projectable device has come to a stop following a period of motion, the motion data generated by at least one accelerometer in the projectable device.
7. The projectable device of claim 1, wherein the projectable device is a throwable grenade.
8. A projectable device, comprising: a detonation charge; one or more cameras; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the detonation charge and the one or more cameras; and memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor, the memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: establishing a wireless pairing between the projectable device and a mixed reality (MR) system, the wireless pairing enabling communication between the projectable device and the MR system; receiving scene and mapping data for an environment in proximity to the projectable device, the scene and mapping data captured by the one or more cameras; transmitting the scene and mapping data to the MR system through the wireless pairing; and initiating a detonation of the projectable device using the detonation charge, wherein the projectable device is a drone.
9. The projectable device of claim 8, the operations further comprising: receiving an indication to transition the projectable device from a low power mode to an active mode, wherein the scene and mapping data is captured by the one or more cameras when the projectable device is in the active mode.
10. The projectable device of claim 9, wherein the indication is provided through manipulation of a switch or a pin on the projectable device.
11. The projectable device of claim 9, wherein the indication is provided through an activation instruction that is transmitted to the projectable device from the MR system through the wireless pairing.
12. The projectable device of claim 8, wherein the detonation is initiated responsive to a detonation instruction received from the MR system through the wireless pairing, and the detonation is initiated responsive to motion data indicating that the projectable device has come to a stop following a period of motion, the motion data generated by at least one accelerometer in the projectable device.
13. A method performed by a projectable device, the method comprising: establishing a wireless pairing between the projectable device and a mixed reality (MR) system, the wireless pairing enabling communication between the projectable device and the MR system; receiving scene and mapping data for an environment in proximity to the projectable device, the scene and mapping data captured by one or more cameras of the projectable device; receiving an indication to transition the projectable device from a low power mode to an active mode, wherein the scene and mapping data is captured by the one or more cameras when the protectable device is in the active mode, and the indication is provided through manipulation of a switch or a pin on the projectable device; transmitting the scene and mapping data to the MR system through the wireless pairing; and initiating a detonation of the projectable device using a detonation charge included in the projectable device.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: analyzing the scene and mapping data to generate information describing a presence of one or more people in proximity to the projectable device and machine recognition of a characteristic pertaining to the one or more people, wherein the characteristic comprises an identification of the one or more people as a friend or foe; and transmitting the information to the MR system through the wireless pairing.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the detonation is initiated based at least partly on the machine recognition of the characteristic.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the indication is provided through an activation instruction that is transmitted to the projectable device from the MR system through the wireless pairing.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the detonation is initiated responsive to a detonation instruction received from the MR system through the wireless pairing.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the detonation is initiated responsive to motion data indicating that the projectable device has come to a stop following a period of motion, the motion data generated by at least one accelerometer in the projectable device.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the projectable device is a throwable grenade.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the projectable device is a drone.
</claims>
</document>
