<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/20,G06T17/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VIRTUALITICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMORI, MICHAEL
DONALEK, CIRO
GANTENBERG, JUSTIN
SAHU, SARTHAK
INDURKHYA, AAKASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68465233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for high dimensional 3D data visualization
</title>

<abstract>
Data visualization processes can utilize machine learning algorithms applied to visualization data structures to determine visualization parameters that most effectively provide insight into the data, and to suggest meaningful correlations for further investigation by users. In numerous embodiments, data visualization processes can automatically generate parameters that can be used to display the data in ways that will provide enhanced value. For example, dimensions can be chosen to be associated with specific visualization parameters that are easily digestible based on their importance, e.g. with higher value dimensions placed on more easily understood visualization aspects (color, coordinate, size, etc.). In a variety of embodiments, data visualization processes can automatically describe the graph using natural language by identifying regions of interest in the visualization, and generating text using natural language generation processes. As such, data visualization processes can allow for rapid, effective use of voluminous, high dimensional data sets.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data visualization system comprising: at least one central processing unit (CPU); at least one graphics processing unit (GPU); and a memory comprising a data visualization application, where the data visualization application directs the at least one CPU to: obtain data comprising a set of records, where each record has at least three data dimensions; store the obtained data in a table structure, where each record is represented by a row in the table structure, each dimension is represented by a column in the table structure, and each cell is populated with a value corresponding to the obtained data; generate at least one mapping from the at least three data dimensions to a set of visualization dimensions, where the mapping comprises a set of visualization parameters assigned to each column in the table structure, where each visualization parameter in the set of visualization parameters describes how an arbitrary value in the column should be visualized; generate a data structure using the at least one CPU, where the data structure comprises: a first list comprising locations of points in a set of unrendered points, where each unrendered point is located in 3D space and represents values in at least one record; and a second list comprising visualization information describing how to render a set of 3D objects, where each 3D object is centered around a respective unrendered point in the set of unrendered points, based on the visualization parameters; provide the at least one GPU with the data structure; and render the 3D objects in a virtual 3D environment in accordance with the corresponding visualization information of the second list centered at the corresponding locations of the first list using the at least one GPU and the data structure, where the at least one GPU renders the 3D objects in parallel.
2. The data visualization system of claim 1, wherein the data visualization application further directs the at least one CPU to automatically generate the mapping of the data.
3. The data visualization system of claim 1, wherein to generate the at least one mapping, the data visualization application further directs the at least one CPU to: identify a target dimension from the at least three data dimensions; calculate ranking metrics reflecting the impact of non-target dimensions on the target dimension; calculate correlation coefficients reflecting to what degree remaining dimensions are correlated; and generate the set of visualization parameters based on the ranking metrics and the correlation coefficients.
4. The data visualization system of claim 3, to calculate ranking metrics, the data visualization application further directs the at least one CPU to apply a machine learning model.
5. The data visualization system of claim 4, wherein the machine learning model is a random forest.
6. The data visualization system of claim 5, wherein the data visualization application further directs the at least one CPU to apply histogram-based splitting in the random forest.
7. The data visualization system of claim 3, wherein the correlation coefficients are Pearson correlation coefficients.
8. The data visualization system of claim 3, wherein the data visualization application further directs the at least one CPU to select a chart type that attempts to best provide insights with respect to the target dimension to a human.
9. The data visualization system of claim 8, wherein the chart type is selected from the group consisting of: scatter plots, histograms, swarm plots, bar charts, heat maps, topographic maps, geospatial visualizations, and network visualizations.
10. The data visualization system of claim 1, wherein the 3D virtual environment is a 3D virtual office.
11. A method for data visualization comprising: obtaining data comprising a set of records, where each record has at least three data dimensions; storing the obtained data in a table structure, where each record is represented by a row in the table structure, each dimension is represented by a column in the table structure, and each cell is populated with a value corresponding to the obtained data; generating at least one mapping from the at least three data dimensions to a set of visualization dimensions, where the mapping comprises a set of visualization parameters assigned to each column in the table structure, where each visualization parameter in the set of visualization parameters describes how an arbitrary value in the column should be visualized; generating a data structure using at least one central processing unit (CPU), where the data structure comprises: a first list comprising locations of points in a set of unrendered points, where each unrendered point is located in 3D space and represents values in at least one record; and a second list comprising visualization information describing how to render a set of 3D objects, where each 3D object is centered around a respective unrendered point in the set of unrendered points, based on the visualization parameters; providing at least one graphics processing unit (GPU) with the data structure; and rendering the 3D objects in a virtual 3D environment in accordance with the corresponding visualization information of the second list centered at the corresponding locations of the first list using the at least one GPU and the data structure, where the at least one GPU renders the 3D point objects in parallel.
12. The data visualization method of claim 11, further comprising automatically generating the mapping of the data.
13. The data visualization system of claim 11, wherein generating the at least one mapping further comprises: identifying a target dimension from the at least three data dimensions; calculating ranking metrics reflecting the impact of non-target dimensions on the target dimension; calculating correlation coefficients reflecting to what degree remaining dimensions are correlated; and generating the set of visualization parameters based on the ranking metrics and the correlation coefficients.
14. The data visualization method of claim 13, wherein calculating ranking metrics further comprises applying a machine learning model.
15. The data visualization method of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is a random forest.
16. The data visualization method of claim 15, further comprising applying histogram-based splitting in the random forest.
17. The data visualization method of claim 13, wherein the correlation coefficients are Pearson correlation coefficients.
18. The data visualization method of claim 13, further comprising selecting a chart type that attempts to best provide insights with respect to the target dimension to a human.
19. The data visualization method of claim 18, wherein the chart type is selected from the group consisting of: scatter plots, histograms, swarm plots, bar charts, heat maps, topographic maps, geospatial visualizations, and network visualizations.
20. A data visualization system comprising: at least one central processing unit (CPU); at least one graphics processing unit (GPU); and a memory comprising a data visualization application, where the data visualization application directs the at least one CPU to: obtain data comprising a set of records, where each record has at least three data dimensions; store the obtained data in a table structure, where each record is represented by a row in the table structure, each dimension is represented by a column in the table structure, and each cell is populated with a value corresponding to the obtained data; identify a target dimension from the at least three data dimensions; calculate ranking metrics reflecting the impact of non-target dimensions the target dimension; calculate correlation coefficients reflecting to what degree remaining dimensions are correlated; select a subset of the at least three data dimensions comprising the target dimension and at least one of the remaining data dimensions based on the ranking metrics and the correlation coefficients such that the cardinality of the subset of the at least three data dimensions is at or below a dimensionality threshold; generate at least one mapping from the dimensions in the subset of the at least three data dimensions to a set of visualization dimensions using the selected subset of data dimensions, where the mapping comprises: a set of visualization parameters assigned to each column in the table structure, where each visualization parameter in the set of visualization parameters describes how an arbitrary value in the column should be visualized; generate a data structure using the at least one CPU, where the data structure comprises: a first list comprising locations of points in a set of unrendered points, where each unrendered point is located in 3D space and represents values in at least one record; and a second list comprising visualization information describing how to render a set of 3D objects, where each 3D object is centered around a respective unrendered point in the set of unrendered points, based on the visualization parameters; provide the at least one GPU with the data structure; and render the 3D objects in a virtual 3D environment in accordance with the corresponding visualization information of the second list centered at the corresponding locations of the first list using the at least one GPU and the data structure, where the at least one GPU renders the 3D objects in parallel.
</claims>
</document>
