<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/10,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU CHANG
ZHONG, CHU YUNXIAO
ROUSSEAU, NICOLAS
EL KHOURY, PAUL
DONG, LI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68762381
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Progressive authentication security adapter
</title>

<abstract>
Authentication data for providing access to a resource to a user is received from a requester. The authentication data encapsulates data required by both a first authentication solution and a second authentication procedure both for providing access to a resource. The first and second authentication solutions can differ in authentication modality with the second authentication solution utilizing at least one machine learning model. Thereafter, using the received authentication data, both of the first and second authentication solutions are initiated. Authentication results are received from both of the first and second authentication solutions. The requester is provided with access to the resource if the both of the received authentication results indicate that authentication of the user was successful. Related apparatus, systems, techniques and articles are also described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from a requester, authentication data for providing access to a resource to a user, the authentication data encapsulating data required by both a first authentication solution and a second authentication solution both for providing access to a resource, the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution differing in authentication modality with the second authentication solution utilizing at least one machine learning model; initiating, using the received authentication data, both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; receiving authentication results from both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; providing the requester with access to the resource if the both of the received authentication results indicate that authentication of the user was successful; checking a reliability ratio for the user if the first authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was successful and the second authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was not successful, the reliability ratio characterizing a level of training of the machine learning model utilized by the second authentication solution; and providing the requester with access to the resource if the reliability ratio is above a pre-defined threshold; and preventing the requester from accessing the resource if the reliability ratio is below a pre-defined threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second authentication solution utilizes biometric data derived from the user.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the biometric data is at least one of: facial image, sound recording, voice recording, fingerprint, or a handprint.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource is a computer system or a computer data file.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource is access to a physical asset.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises: logistic regression models, support vector machines, neural networks, or random forests.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution are accessed by a progressive authentication security adapter (PASA) which selectively provides access to the resource.
8. A system comprising: at least one data processor; and memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: receiving, from a requester, authentication data for providing access to a resource to a user, the authentication data encapsulating data required by both a first authentication solution and a second authentication solution both for providing access to a resource, the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution differing in authentication modality with the second authentication solution utilizing at least one machine learning model; initiating, using the received authentication data, both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; receiving authentication results from both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; providing the requester with access to the resource if the both of the received authentication results indicate that authentication of the user was successful; checking a reliability ratio for the user if the first authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was successful and the second authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was not successful, the reliability ratio characterizing a level of training of the machine learning model utilized by the second authentication solution; and providing the requester with access to the resource if the reliability ratio is above a pre-defined threshold; and preventing the requester from accessing the resource if the reliability ratio is below a pre-defined threshold.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the second authentication solution utilizes biometric data derived from the user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the biometric data is at least one of: facial image, sound recording, voice recording, fingerprint, or a handprint.
11. The system of claim 8 further comprising the resource.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the resource is a computer system or a computer data file.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the resource is access to a physical asset.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises: logistic regression models, support vector machines, neural networks, or random forests.
15. A non-transitory computer program product storing instructions which, when executed by at least one data processor forming part of at least one computing system, result in operations comprising: at least one data processor; and memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: receiving, from a requester, authentication data for providing access to a resource to a user, the authentication data encapsulating data required by both a first authentication solution and a second authentication solution both for providing access to a resource, the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution differing in authentication modality with the second authentication solution utilizing at least one machine learning model; initiating, using the received authentication data, both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; receiving authentication results from both of the first authentication solution and the second authentication solution; providing the requester with access to the resource if the both of the received authentication results indicate that authentication of the user was successful; checking a reliability ratio for the user if the first authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was successful and the second authentication solution indicates that the authentication of the user was not successful, the reliability ratio characterizing a level of training of the machine learning model utilized by the second authentication solution; and providing the requester with access to the resource if the reliability ratio is above a pre-defined threshold; and preventing the requester from accessing the resource if the reliability ratio is below a pre-defined threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 8, wherein the second authentication solution utilizes biometric data derived from the user.
17. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 16, wherein the biometric data is at least one of: facial image, sound recording, voice recording, fingerprint, or a handprint.
18. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 15, wherein the resource is a computer system or a computer data file.
19. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 15, wherein the resource is access to a physical asset.
20. The non-transitory computer program product of 15, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises: logistic regression models, support vector machines, neural networks, or random forests.
</claims>
</document>
