<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F16/338,G06F16/35,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RINA SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAMANSKY, LEO
CARR, TERENCE M
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67220212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhancement of search results
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for improving search results from proprietary search engine technologies and proprietary machine classifiers, without ingesting, copying, or storing, the data to be searched, are described herein. A user sends a query to a proprietary search engines and gets a result document set back. The user may apply a user model for classifying a result document set to generate a result document for review of a user. The reviewed document may be added to a user training corpus, which is then used to retrain the user model. The retrained user model may be applied by the user to generate the next result document for user review and so on until the user model converges to generate relevant documents reliably. Once the user model converges, the user may apply the now reliable user model to generate multiple relevant documents for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for improving results of proprietary machine search technology, the method comprising: receiving a query from a user; submitting the query to a first machine search technology including a proprietary search engine or proprietary classifier that has been previously trained, and that is made available for processing queries without exposing details, components, and structures of the proprietary classifier; receiving a plurality of result documents at a second search technology, the plurality of result documents received from the first machine search technology as a result of a search of a proprietary document universe without ingesting, copying, or storing the searched proprietary document universe at the second search technology, the search performed using the proprietary search engine or proprietary classifier in response to the query; and extracting documents that are relevant to the user from the result documents, the extraction performed using the second search technology comprising: a user model, and a set of user training documents for training the user model, the extraction comprising: a) classifying the result documents, the classification performed by the trained user model of the second search technology; b) presenting a document to the user for review, the document selected from the received result documents; c) receiving from the user a review of the selected document including an indication that the reviewed document is relevant or not relevant; d) adding the reviewed one or more documents to the set of user training documents of the second search technology; e) training the user model of the second search technology on the set of user training documents of the second search technology after adding the one or more reviewed documents to the set of training documents; and f) repeating from step (a).
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining whether to end extraction of relevant documents before repeating, and upon ending the extraction of relevant documents, providing to the user one or more of the relevant documents extracted from the result documents.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining whether to end extraction of relevant documents before repeating, the determining whether to end including receiving an indication from the user to select a next document for review by the user from the result documents.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein each iteration of the extraction is performed in response to a request from the user.
5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving an indication from the user to end the extraction; classifying the result documents using the trained user model to generate relevant documents; and providing to the user one or more of the relevant documents that are generated from the classification of the result documents.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining whether to end extraction of relevant documents before repeating, the determination comprising: iterating steps (a)-(f) a predetermined number of times, then performing a classification of the result documents using the trained user model of the second to generate relevant documents; and providing to the user a plurality of the relevant documents generated by the classification.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the presented documents from the received result documents at step (b) is selected at random.
8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: ranking the classified documents classified at step (g); and selecting the one or more documents in step (h) from the highest ranked documents.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the result documents have been ranked by the proprietary search engine and the one or more documents selected from the received result documents in step (a) are selected from the highest ranked documents.
10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: selecting a plurality of documents from the result documents; and for each of the plurality of selected documents, performing steps (a)-(f); providing to the user one or more of the relevant documents that are generated from the classification of the second plurality of result documents.
11. A non-transitory computer readable storage media having a program embodied thereon, the program being executable by a processor to perform a method for improving results from proprietary search engine technology residing within an enterprise having access to search a document universe by, the method comprising: receiving at a processor outside the enterprise a set of result documents from the proprietary search engine within the enterprise, the result document set generated by the proprietary search engine technology within the enterprise in response to a query received at the proprietary search engine technology from the processor, the result document set received at the processor from the propriety search engine technology without ingesting, copying, or storing the searched document universe at the processor; and analyzing the received result document set at the processor, the analysis for refining a user model that is personal to the user, the analysis of the result document set comprising: classifying the result document set using the user model; presenting a plurality of result documents from the result document set, the presented plurality of result documents selected based on the classification of the result document set; receiving a review one of the presented documents from the user; adding the reviewed document to a set of user training documents; retraining the user model with the set of user training documents; and repeating the analysis.
12. The method according to claim 11 wherein the presentation of each of the plurality of result decampments includes a link to a web page.
13. The method according to claim 11, further comprising ranking the plurality of result documents using the user model.
14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising initializing the set of user training documents before analyzing at the processor the documents drawn from result document set, the initialization comprising: selecting one or more initialization documents from the result document set; receiving a review of the one or more initialization documents from the user; and adding the reviewed one or more initialization documents to the user training documents.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein the result documents are received from a plurality of enterprises, each enterprise using a proprietary search engine technology within the, respective, enterprise to generate result documents, the result documents received at the processor without ingesting, copying, or storing the document universe searched by the proprietary search engine technology of the, respective, enterprise.
16. A method for improving machine classification technology, the method comprising: receiving at a server outside an enterprise a set of result documents from an enterprise in response to a query processed within the enterprise, the result document set extracted from a document universe of the enterprise in response to the query, and without ingesting, receiving, or storing the document universe of the enterprise at the server outside the enterprise; and analyzing the result document set received at the server outside the enterprise, the analysis of the result document set comprising: classifying the result document set using a user classifier model; ranking classified documents of the result document set, using the user classifier model; presenting a plurality of the highest ranked result documents to a user; receiving from the user a review of a result document selected by the user from the result documents presented to the user; adding the reviewed document to a set of user training documents; retraining the user classifier model using the set of user training documents, and repeating the analysis of the result document set.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the enterprise generates the result document set using a proprietary enterprise classifier model within the enterprise in response to the query, details of at least one of the enterprise model, training sets, and enterprise model trainers of the enterprise being proprietary to the enterprise and not available outside the enterprise.
18. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: scoring at the server the result document set using the user classifier model; and providing a plurality of the scored result documents to the user based on the document scores.
19. A method for improving search engine results of an enterprise, the method comprising: receiving result documents from a first search technology, the result documents generated using the first search technology to perform a search of a document universe of the enterprise in response to the query; and selecting a plurality of the result documents for presentation to a user, the selection performed using a second search technology comprising a user model trained using a user training corpus, the selection performed without reference to the first search technology and the document universe of the enterprise, the selection of the documents comprising: a) presenting a plurality of the classified result documents to the user for review by the user, the presented documents selected from classification of the result documents using the user model trained using the user training corpus; b) receiving from the user a review of a document selected by the user from the plurality of documents presented to the user; c) adding the reviewed document to the user training corpus; d) retraining the user model using the user training corpus; and e) repeating from step (a).
20. The method according to claim 19, wherein classifying the classification of the result documents using a user classifier further the user model comprises: calculating a score for each of the classified result documents; and ranking the classified result documents based on the score.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein presenting a plurality of the classified result documents to the user comprises selecting the plurality of the classified result documents for presentation based on the ranking of the classified result documents.
22. The method according to claim 19, wherein the first search technology is a search engine and the second search technology is a classifier.
23. The method according to claim 19, wherein the selecting a plurality of the result documents using a second search technology is performed outside the enterprise.
</claims>
</document>
