<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/06,G10L15/08,H04M3/22,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HSU WEN-LING
GILBERT, MAZIN E.
GREEN, DON
KRISHNA, SANJAY
RATH, CHRISTOPHER
XU, TAN
KAPILOW, DAVID
MANTIONE, KELLEY
BROOKS, CHERYL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67905999
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for artificial intelligence routing of customer service interactions
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include an artificial intelligence method of routing customer service interactions which begins with an analysis of a body of historical interactions with customers. By monitoring an interaction between a user and an agent, the user's issue may be determined and a potential resolution resource may be identified. By monitoring an exchange between the user and the resource, the analysis may be updated. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: creating, by a processing system comprising a processor, an analysis of a plurality of historical interactions with a plurality of users of a plurality of different communication services provided by a service provider, the analysis including retrieving the plurality of historical interactions with the plurality of users, extracting a plurality of historical key phrases from the plurality of historical interactions, identifying a plurality of historical issues from the plurality of historical interactions, associating the historical key phrases with related ones of the historical issues, identifying a plurality of historical resolution resources involved in resolving the historical issues, and associating historical resolution resources with related ones of the historical issues; receiving, by the processing system, an indication of one or more issues from a device of a user; establishing, by the processing system, an interaction between the user and an agent; extracting, by the processing system, one or more potential key phrases from the indication and the interaction between the user and the agent; identifying, by the processing system, one or more matching key phrases, by comparing the potential key phrases with the historical key phrases, wherein the one or more matching key phrases comprise one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; identifying, by the processing system, one or more potential issues as one or more historical issues associated with the one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; creating, by the processing system, one or more identified issues by refining the one or more potential issues according to a relationship with the user, wherein the relationship includes both prior communications with the user and account information of the user, wherein the refining comprises excluding first potential historical key phrases and including second potential historical key phrases based on services subscribed to by the user of a plurality of available services of the service provider, and adding potential issues to or excluding potential issues from the one or more identified issues based on the excluding the first potential historical key phrases and the including the second potential historical key phrases; creating, by the processing system, a pool comprising the historical resolution resources associated with the historical issues most closely matching the one or more identified issues; selecting, by the processing system, a potential resolution resource from the pool based on the relationship with the user; suggesting, by the processing system, the potential resolution resource to the agent interacting with the user; monitoring, by the processing system, the interaction between the user and the agent; thereby updating the relationship with the user and discerning whether the agent resolved the issue; requesting, by the processing system, an acceptance by the agent of the potential resolution resource; in response to receiving the acceptance from the agent, facilitating, by the processing system, an exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; monitoring, by the processing system, the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; and updating, by the processing system, the analysis based on the interaction between the user and the agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
2. The method of claim 1, the analysis further including associating historical resolution resources with related ones of the historical key phrases.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the historical interactions are limited to interactions with the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing system is operated by the service provider and the historical interactions include interactions between representatives of the service provider and a plurality of customers of the service provider.
5. The method of claim 1, further including updating the relationship with the user based on the interaction between the user and the agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
6. The method of claim 1, further including discerning whether the potential resolution resource resolved the one or more identified issues based on the interaction between the user and the agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the relationship with the user includes an identification of one or more services subscribed to by the user, wherein the extracting the one or more potential key phrases and the identifying one or more matching key phrases are accomplished utilizing one or more libraries of terms related to the one or more services subscribed to by the user, and wherein the extracting the one or more potential key phrases and the identifying one or more matching key phrases are accomplished ignoring one or more libraries of terms related to one or more services to which the user does not subscribe.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is a live agent.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the agent is an automated agent.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential resolution resource is a live agent.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential resolution resource is an automated agent.
12. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: obtaining an analysis of a plurality of historical interactions with a plurality of users, the analysis including extracting a plurality of historical key phrases from the plurality of historical interactions, identifying a plurality of historical issues from the plurality of historical interactions, associating the historical key phrases with related ones of the historical issues, identifying a plurality of historical resolution resources involved in resolving the historical issues, and associating historical resolution resources with related ones of the historical issues; monitoring an interaction between a device of a user and a live agent, thereby obtaining an indication of one or more user issues; identifying one or more potential key phrases from the interaction between the user and the live agent; determining one or more matching key phrases, by comparing the potential key phrases with the historical key phrases, wherein the one or more matching key phrases comprise one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; determining one or more potential issues as one or more historical issues associated with the one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; identifying a user issue by refining the one or more potential issues according to a relationship with the user, wherein the relationship includes both prior communications with the user and account information of the user, wherein the refining comprises excluding first potential historical key phrases and including second potential historical key phrases based on services subscribed to by the user of a plurality of available services, and adding potential issues to or excluding potential issues from the one or more identified issues based on the excluding the first potential historical key phrases and the including the second potential historical key phrases; selecting a potential resolution resource from the historical resolution resources associated with the historical issues based on the user issue and the relationship with the user; suggesting the potential resolution resource to the live agent; requesting from the live agent an acceptance of the potential resolution resource; in response to receiving the acceptance from the live agent, facilitating an exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; monitoring the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; and updating the analysis based on the interaction between the user and the live agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 12, further including updating the relationship with the user based on the interaction between the user and the live agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 12, further including discerning whether the potential resolution resource resolved the user issue based on the interaction between the user and the live agent and the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the potential resolution resource is a different live agent.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the potential resolution resource is an automated agent.
17. A system, comprising: a processor; a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: creating an analysis of a plurality of historical interactions with a plurality of users of a plurality of different communication services provided by a service provider, the analysis including retrieving the plurality of historical interactions with the plurality of users, extracting a plurality of historical key phrases from the plurality of historical interactions, identifying a plurality of historical issues from the plurality of historical interactions, associating the historical key phrases with related ones of the historical issues, identifying a plurality of historical resolution resources involved in resolving the historical issues, associating historical resolution resources with related ones of the historical issues, and associating historical resolution resources with related ones of the historical key phrases; monitoring an interaction between a device of a user and an agent, thereby discerning an indication of a user issue; identifying one or more potential key phrases from the interaction between the device of the user and the agent; identifying one or more matching key phrases, wherein the one or more matching key phrases comprise one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; identifying one or more potential issues as one or more historical issues associated with the one or more historical key phrases that match the one or more potential key phrases; identifying the user issue by refining the one or more potential issues according to a relationship with the user, wherein the relationship includes account information of the user, wherein the refining comprises excluding first potential historical key phrases and including second potential historical key phrases based on services subscribed to by the user of a plurality of available services of the service provider, and adding potential issues to or excluding potential issues from the one or more identified issues based on the excluding the first potential historical key phrases and the including the second potential historical key phrases; identifying a potential resolution resource from the historical resolution resources associated with the historical issues based on the user issue; requesting an acceptance by the user of the potential resolution resource; in response to receiving the acceptance from the user, facilitating an exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; monitoring the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource; and updating the analysis based on the exchange between the user and the potential resolution resource.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the agent is a first live agent.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the potential resolution resource is a second live agent.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the potential resolution resource is an automated agent.
</claims>
</document>
