<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B67D1/00,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G07F7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIPPA, DAVID, W.
MCCANN, KEVIN D.
MCCLELLAN, CHRISTOPHER J.
SMITH, MICHAEL JAMES
ROGERS, BENJAMIN SCOTT
BARR, CHRISTOPHER BRYAN PAUL
SALYER, JOSEF
CARDER, JON C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783406
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated vending machine with customer and identification authentication
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations include actions of receiving consumer-specific data and ID-specific data from an identification presented by a consumer to a vending machine, processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data to determine one or more of whether the identification is unexpired and whether the identification is authentic, and serving the consumer from the vending machine at least partially in response to determining that the identification is unexpired and that the identification is authentic and determining that the consumer is authentic relative to the identification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for selectively serving a consumer from a vending machine, the method comprising: receiving consumer-specific data and ID-specific data from an identification presented by a consumer to a vending machine, the consumer-specific data being absent personally identifiable information (PII), such that PII of the consumer is absent from storage within the vending machine and is absent from transmissions from the vending machine; determining a type of the identification based on the ID-specific data; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data to determine one or more of whether the identification is unexpired; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data based on the type of the identification to determine whether the identification is authentic; and serving the consumer from the vending machine at least partially in response to determining that the identification is unexpired and that the identification is authentic and determining that the consumer is authentic relative to the identification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises comparing features of the identification to known features of the type of the identification.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises providing an image of the identification to a machine learning (ML) model and receiving an indication from the ML model indicating whether the identification is authentic.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the consumer is authentic relative to the identification comprises providing image data and/or video data depicting the consumer and an image from the identification to a facial recognition system that processes the data to determine whether the consumer matches the image provided with the identification.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a state of the consumer, serving the consumer being further in response to the state of the user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the state comprises sober.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that a person is physically present at the vending machine, serving the consumer being further in response to determining that a person is physically present at the vending machine.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining that a person is physically present is at least partially based on a depth determined using one or more images generated by at least one camera of the vending machine.
9. A system, comprising: a beverage dispenser; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for selectively serving a consumer from a vending machine, the operations comprising: receiving consumer-specific data and ID-specific data from an identification presented by a consumer to a vending machine, the consumer-specific data being absent personally identifiable information (PII), such that PII of the consumer is absent from storage within the vending machine and is absent from transmissions from the vending machine; determining a type of the identification based on the ID-specific data; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data to determine one or more of whether the identification is unexpired; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data based on the type of the identification to determine whether the identification is authentic; and serving the consumer from the vending machine at least partially in response to determining that the identification is unexpired and that the identification is authentic and determining that the consumer is authentic relative to the identification.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises comparing features of the identification to known features of the type of the identification.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises providing an image of the identification to a machine learning (ML) model and receiving an indication from the ML model indicating whether the identification is authentic.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein determining whether the consumer is authentic relative to the identification comprises providing image data and/or video data depicting the consumer and an image from the identification to a facial recognition system that processes the data to determine whether the consumer matches the image provided with the identification.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein operations further comprise determining a state of the consumer, serving the consumer being further in response to the state of the user.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the state comprises sober.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein operations further comprise determining that a person is physically present at the vending machine, serving the consumer being further in response to determining that a person is physically present at the vending machine.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein determining that a person is physically present is at least partially based on a depth determined using one or more images generated by at least one camera of the vending machine.
17. Non-transitory computer-readable storage media coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for selectively serving a consumer from a vending machine, the operations comprising: receiving consumer-specific data and ID-specific data from an identification presented by a consumer to a vending machine, the consumer-specific data being absent personally identifiable information (PII), such that PII of the consumer is absent from storage within the vending machine and is absent from transmissions from the vending machine; determining a type of the identification based on the ID-specific data; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data to determine one or more of whether the identification is unexpired; processing at least a portion of the ID-specific data based on the type of the identification to determine whether the identification is authentic; and serving the consumer from the vending machine at least partially in response to determining that the identification is unexpired and that the identification is authentic and determining that the consumer is authentic relative to the identification.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises comparing features of the identification to known features of the type of the identification.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein determining whether the identification is authentic comprises providing an image of the identification to a machine learning (ML) model and receiving an indication from the ML model indicating whether the identification is authentic.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein determining whether the consumer is authentic relative to the identification comprises providing image data and/or video data depicting the consumer and an image from the identification to a facial recognition system that processes the data to determine whether the consumer matches the image provided with the identification.
</claims>
</document>
