<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T11/00,G06T13/80,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREEMAN, KYLE G.
PAPON, JEREMIE A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69951405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Perceptual data association
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments provide for perceptual data association from at least a first and a second sensor disposed at different positions in an environment, in respective series of local scene graphs that identify characteristics of objects in the environment that are updated asynchronously and merging the series of local scene graphs to form a coherent image of the environment from multiple perspectives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from a first sensor disposed at a first position in an environment, a first series of local scene graphs comprising a first value of a first characteristic of an object in the environment, wherein the first series of local scene graphs is associated with first local timing information for the first sensor; receiving, from a second sensor disposed at a second position in the environment, a second series of local scene graphs comprising a second value of the first characteristic of the object, wherein the second series of local scene graphs is associated with second local timing information for the second sensor and wherein the first series of local scene graphs are asynchronous with respect to the second series of local scene graphs; and outputting a series of global scene graphs including global characteristics of the object derived from merging the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs using the first local timing information and the second local timing information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the series of global scene graphs are output according to the first local timing information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first value of the first characteristic is updated at a first rate in the first series of local scene graphs and the second value of the first characteristic is updated at a second rate, different from the first rate, in the second series of local scene graphs.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first value of the first characteristic is updated at a first rate in the first series of local scene graphs and the second value of the first characteristic is updated as the first rate in the second series of local scene graphs at an offset time from when the first value is updated in the first series of local scene graphs.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein merging the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs further comprises determining a global value for the global characteristic based on the first value and the second value, wherein the global value is determined by one of: selecting a more recently determined one of the first value and the second value; and time weighting the first value and the second value according to a ratio between update rates in the first series of local scene graphs and the second series of local scene graphs.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second series of local scene graphs includes a third value for a second characteristic of the object not included in the first series of local scene graphs, wherein outputting the series of global scene graphs further comprises: including a second global value for a second global characteristic of the object derived from the third value using the first local timing information and the second local timing information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second series of local scene graphs includes a third value of the first characteristic of a different object, wherein the different object is not included in the first series of local scene graphs, wherein outputting the series of global scene graphs further comprises: including a second global value for a second global characteristic of the different object derived from the third value using the first local timing information and the second local timing information.
8. A method, comprising: receiving, from a first sensor disposed at a first position in an environment, a first series of local scene graphs comprising a first characteristic of a first object in the environment, wherein the first series of local scene graphs is associated with first local timing information for the first sensor; receiving, from a second sensor disposed at a second position in the environment, a second series of local scene graphs comprising a second characteristic of a second object, wherein the second series of local scene graphs is associated with second local timing information for the second sensor and wherein the first series of local scene graphs are asynchronous with respect to the second series of local scene graphs; and outputting a series of global scene graphs including global characteristics of the first object that include the first characteristic according to the first local timing information and the second characteristic from the second object according to the second local timing information.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the series of global scene graphs are output according to the first local timing information.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the values of the first characteristic are updated at a first rate in the first series of local scene graphs and the values of the second characteristic are updated at a second rate, different from the first rate, in the second series of local scene graphs.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the values of the first characteristic are updated at a first rate in the first series of local scene graphs and the values of the second characteristic are updated as the first rate in the second series of local scene graphs at an offset time from when the values of the first characteristic are updated in the first series of local scene graphs.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the global scene graph is output in response to determining that the first object is related to the second object.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the second series of local scene graphs includes second values for the first characteristic of the first object, wherein outputting the series of global scene graphs further comprises: merging the values for the first characteristic from the first series of local scene graphs with the second values for the first characteristic from the second series of local scene graphs using the first local timing information and the second local timing information.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein merging the values for the first characteristic from the first series of local scene graphs with the second values for the first characteristic from the second series of local scene graphs further comprises one of: selecting a more recently determined one of the first value and the second value; and time weighting the first value and the second value according to a ratio between update rates in the first series of local scene graphs and the second series of local scene graphs.
15. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory storage device, including instructions that when executed by the processor enable the processor to: receiving, from a first sensor disposed at a first position in an environment, a first series of local scene graphs comprising values for characteristics of objects identified in the environment, wherein the first series of local scene graphs is associated with first local timing information for the first sensor; receive, from a second sensor disposed at a second position in the environment, a second series of local scene graphs comprising values for characteristics of objects identified in the environment, wherein the second series of local scene graphs is associated with second local timing information for the second sensor and wherein the first series of local scene graphs are asynchronous with respect to the second series of local scene graphs; and output a series of global scene graphs including global values for the characteristics of the objects identified in the first series of local scene graphs and the second series of local scene graphs derived from merging the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs using the first local timing information and the second local timing information.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first series of local scene graphs include first values for a first characteristic of a first object and the second series of local scene graphs include second values for the first characteristic of the first object, wherein to merge the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs the instructions further enable the processor to: set the global values of the first characteristic of the first object to a most recently determined one of the first values and the second values.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first series of local scene graphs include first values for a first characteristic of a first object that is not included in the second series of local scene graphs, wherein to merge the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs the instructions further enable the processor to use the first values for the first characteristic from the first series of local scene graphs as the global values of the first characteristic of the first object.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the first series of local scene graphs include first values for a first characteristic of a first object and the second series of local scene graphs include second values for a second characteristic of a second object, wherein to merge the first series of local scene graphs with the second series of local scene graphs the instructions further enable the processor to: assign the second values for the second characteristic of the second object as the global values of the second characteristic of the first object.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the first series of local scene graphs are updated at a first rate and the second series of local scene graphs are updated at a second rate, different from the first rate.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first series of local scene graphs are updated at a first rate and the second series of local scene graphs are updated at the first rate, at an offset time from when the first series of local scene graphs are updated.
</claims>
</document>
