<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/04,A61B1/045,A61B34/20,A61B34/30,A61B90/00,G06T19/00,G06T19/20,G06T7/00,G06T7/70,H04N5/225,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRAHIC, FRANCOIS
BARRAL, JOËLLE K.
HABBECKE, MARTIN
JOHNSON, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64270947
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Display of preoperative and intraoperative images
</title>

<abstract>
A system for video-assisted surgery includes one or more displays, a memory including at least one preoperative image, and a camera coupled to capture a video. A controller is coupled to the memory, the camera, and the one or more displays, and the controller includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform a variety of operations. The system may capture a video of a surgical area, including anatomical features, using the camera, and display the video of the surgical area on the one or more displays. The system may also display the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video. The location of the anatomical features shown in the video is displayed as an accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for video-assisted surgery, comprising: one or more displays; a memory including at least one preoperative image stored thereon; a camera configured to capture a video; and a controller coupled to the memory, the camera, and the one or more displays, wherein the controller includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including: capturing the video of a surgical area, including anatomical features, using the camera; displaying the video of the surgical area on the one or more displays; and displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video, wherein a location of the anatomical features shown in the video is displayed as an accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image, wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image includes changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in real time, as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time; identifying a surface element in the video; determining coordinates of the surface element in two successive frames in the video; and determining a difference in the coordinates between the two successive frames.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one preoperative image includes a three dimensional preoperative model, and wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image includes changing an orientation of the three dimensional preoperative model as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller further includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including: changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in response to determining the change in the coordinates.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller further includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including accentuating the surface element in the video.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera is included in an endoscope, and wherein the endoscope is coupled to the controller.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the camera and the controller are coupled to a surgical robot, wherein the controller further includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including controlling the movement of one or more arms of the surgical robot.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the accentuated region includes at least one of bordering the accentuated region with a line, changing a color of the accentuated region, changing a brightness of the accentuated region, or labeling the accentuated region.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one preoperative image includes at least one of an X-ray image, a magnetic resonance image, a computerized tomography image, microscopy image, pathology image, or an ultrasound image.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one preoperative image includes a three-dimensional preoperative model, and wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video includes changing an orientation of the three-dimensional preoperative model independently of an orientation of the video of the surgical area.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller further includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including: changing a location of the accentuated region based on a relative location of the surface element in the video.
11. A method of video-assisted surgery, comprising: providing at least one preoperative image stored in a memory; capturing a video of a surgical area including anatomical features using a camera, wherein the preoperative image includes at least part of the surgical area; displaying the video of the surgical area on the one or more displays; and displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video, wherein a location of the anatomical features shown in the video is displayed as an accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image, wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image includes changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in real time, as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time; identifying a surface element in the video; determining coordinates of the surface element in two successive frames in the video; and determining a difference in the coordinates between the two successive frames.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein identifying the surface element includes using at least one of a controller to identify the surface element, or having a user select the surface element with a user interface.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in response to determining the change in the coordinates.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one preoperative image includes a three dimensional preoperative model, and wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video includes changing an orientation of the three dimensional preoperative model as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein capturing a video of a surgical area includes capturing the video with an endoscope, and wherein the camera is disposed in the endoscope.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein capturing a video of a surgical area includes capturing the video with a surgical robot, wherein the camera is coupled to the surgical robot.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the accentuated region includes at least one of bordering the accentuated region with a line, changing a color of the accentuated region, changing a brightness of the accentuated region, or labeling the accentuated region.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one preoperative image includes at least one of an X-ray image, a magnetic resonance image, a computerized tomography image, or an ultrasound image.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising changing the orientation of the at least one preoperative image to show the anatomical features in the preoperative image, prior to displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the preoperative image is superimposed on the video.
21. A system for video-assisted surgery, comprising: one or more displays; a memory including at least one preoperative image stored thereon; a camera configured to capture a video; and a controller coupled to the memory, the camera, and the one or more displays, wherein the controller includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the system to perform operations including: capturing the video of a surgical area, including anatomical features, using the camera; displaying the video of the surgical area on the one or more displays; and displaying the at least one preoperative image on the one or more displays at the same time as the video, wherein a location of the anatomical features shown in the video is displayed as an accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image, wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image includes changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in real time, as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time, wherein displaying the at least one preoperative image includes changing a position of the accentuated region on the at least one preoperative image in real time, as the location of the anatomical features shown in the video changes over time; identifying a surface element in the video; determining coordinates of the surface element in two successive frames in the video; and determining a difference in the coordinates between the two successive frames.
</claims>
</document>
