<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,G06N20/00,H04B17/27,H04B17/318,H04W4/02,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIST SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTAGNOLI, NEAL DANTE
SRINIVASAN, NAGARJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69161242
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus for using received signal strength information in a wireless system
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus for processing and using signals transmitted by a device, e.g., a low cost beacon transmitter device, to facilitate making location determinations with regard to the transmitting device and/or making a decision of when or how to use location information generated based on received signals are described. In accordance with some features the processing performed on the received signal strength measurements is based on whether or not the device from which the signals are received is in motion. The size of a sample period used as a processing window when determining device location is based, in some embodiments, on the rate of motion. When and/or how to use location determinations are performed is also based on motion in some embodiments. Machine learning updates of location determination parameters, based on received signals, are disabled when the signals are from devices determined to be in motion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by an access point, signals from a first wireless device; determining received signal strength indication (RSSI) values based on the received signals; determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion, the determining if the first wireless device is in motion comprising: determining a rate of motion based on a rate at which the RSSI values vary with time; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window; conditionally updating a machine learning model based on the determined rate of motion; and deriving path loss parameters from the machine learning model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion includes determining that the first wireless device is in motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is equal to or above a predefined first threshold.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining a processing window includes: setting the duration of the processing window to a first duration when the first wireless device is determined to be stationary; and setting the duration of the processing window to a second duration when the first wireless device is determined to be moving, the second duration being a shorter duration than the first duration.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a first rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is above a predefined first threshold and below a predefined second threshold.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a second rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is above said second threshold.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the duration of the processing window includes: setting the duration of the processing window to a first duration when the rate of motion is determined to be zero, and setting the duration of the processing window to a shorter duration when the rate of motion is non-zero.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditional updating of the machine learning model comprises: updating the machine learning model in response to the determined rate of motion being below a first motion rate threshold.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein conditional updating of the machine learning model comprises inhibiting an update to the machine learning model in response to a second determined rate of motion being above said first motion rate threshold.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average, the method further comprising determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion.
10. A system, comprising: a receiver in an access point configured to receive signals from a first wireless device; and one or more hardware processors configured to perform operations comprising: determining received signal strength indicators (RSSI) values for the received signals; determining from the RSSI values of the received signals if the first wireless device is in motion, the determining if the first wireless device is in motion comprising: determining a rate of motion based on a rate at which the RSSI values vary with time; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion or not in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window; conditionally updating a machine learning model based on the determined rate of motion; and deriving path loss parameters from the machine learning model.
11. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising determining that the first wireless device is in motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is equal to or above a predefined first threshold.
12. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising: determining whether the rate of motion is below a first motion rate threshold; inhibiting an update of the machine learning model in response to the determined rate of motion being above said first motion rate threshold; and updating the machine learning model in response to a second determined rate of motion being below the first motion rate threshold.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average; and the operations further comprise determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed configure hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an access point, signals from a first wireless device; determining received signal strength indication (RSSI) values based on the received signals; determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion, the determining if the first wireless device is in motion comprising; determining a first rate of motion based on a second rate at which the RSSI values vary with time; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion or not in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window; conditionally updating a machine learning model based on the determined rate of motion; and deriving path loss parameters from the machine learning model.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the conditionally updating of the machine learning model comprises updating the machine learning model in response to the determined rate of motion being below a first motion rate threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the conditionally updating of the machine learning model comprises inhibiting an update to the machine learning model in response to a second determined rate of motion being above said first motion rate threshold.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average; and the operations further comprise determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion.
18. A method comprising: receiving, by an access point, signals from a first wireless device; determining received signal strength indication (RSSI) values based on the received signals; determining from the (RSSI) values if the first wireless device is in motion; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average; determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; wherein determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion comprises: determining a rate of motion based on a rate at which the RSSI values vary with time, and determining the rate of motion is zero when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a first threshold, wherein the first wireless device is determined to not be in motion when the rate of motion is zero.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a first rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a second threshold and above the first threshold.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a second rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is above said second threshold.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the duration of the processing window includes: setting the duration of the processing window to a first duration when the rate of motion is determined to be zero; and setting the duration of the processing window to a shorter duration when the rate of motion is non-zero.
22. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining a path loss parameter based on a machine learning model; and inhibiting an update to the machine learning in response to a determined rate of motion being above a first motion rate threshold.
23. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed configure hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an access point, signals from a first wireless device; determining received signal strength indication (RSSI) values based on the received signals; determining from the (RSSI) values if the first wireless device is in motion; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average; determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; wherein determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion comprises: determining a rate of motion based on a rate at which the RSSI values vary with time, and determining the rate of motion is zero when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a first threshold, wherein the first wireless device is determined to not be in motion when the rate of motion is zero.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a first rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a second threshold and above the first threshold.
25. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a second rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is above said second threshold.
26. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein determining the duration of the processing window includes: setting the duration of the processing window to a first duration when the rate of motion is determined to be zero; and setting the duration of the processing window to a shorter duration when the rate of motion is non-zero.
27. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, the operations further comprising: determining a path loss parameter based on a machine learning model; and inhibiting an update to the machine learning in response to a determined rate of motion being above a first motion rate threshold.
28. A system comprising: hardware processing circuitry; and one or more hardware memories storing instructions that when executed configure the hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an access point, signals from a first wireless device; determining received signal strength indication (RSSI) values based on the received signals; determining from the (RSSI) values if the first wireless device is in motion; determining a duration of a processing window based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; processing RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window, wherein the processing of the RSSI values based on the determined duration of the processing window comprises determining an average of RSSI values received within the determined duration of the processing window, and estimating a location of the first wireless device based on the average; determining a frequency of estimated location determinations of the first wireless device based on whether the first wireless device is determined to be in motion; wherein determining from the RSSI values if the first wireless device is in motion comprises: determining a rate of motion based on a rate at which the RSSI values vary with time, and determining the rate of motion is zero when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a first threshold, wherein the first wireless device is determined to not be in motion when the rate of motion is zero.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a first rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is below a second threshold and above the first threshold.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the determining of the rate of motion includes determining a second rate of motion when the rate at which the RSSI values vary is above said second threshold.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein determining the duration of the processing window includes: setting the duration of the processing window to a first duration when the rate of motion is determined to be zero; and setting the duration of the processing window to a shorter duration when the rate of motion is non-zero.
32. The system of claim 28, further comprising: determining a path loss parameter based on a machine learning model; and inhibiting an update to the machine learning in response to a determined rate of motion being above a first motion rate threshold.
</claims>
</document>
