<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
GREEN, BRADLEY RAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62243973
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for online distributed embedding services
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive JOINKEY information identifying a JOINKEY and embedding element information identifying a plurality of embedding elements associated with the JOINKEY. A training instance is created comprising a pre-determined number of embedding elements from the plurality of embedding elements. A plurality of negative samples from a sample cache are added to the training instance. One or more embeddings are updated based on the training instance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, JOINKEY information identifying a JOINKEY and embedding element information identifying a plurality of embedding elements associated with the JOINKEY; creating, by the computing system, a training instance comprising a pre-determined number of embedding elements from the plurality of embedding elements; labeling, by the computing system, a first embedding element of the training instance as an item element, and one or more other embedding elements of the training instance as context elements; adding, by the computing system, a plurality of negative samples from a sample cache to the training instance, wherein the plurality of negative samples comprises a pre-determined number of negative samples that are determined based on a number of context elements; updating, by the computing system, one or more embeddings based on the training instance; and writing, by the computing system, the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache for potential selection as negative samples in future training instances.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training instance comprises a plurality of context elements.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising determining that a training instance counter associated with the item element does not exceed a training instance threshold.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: for each context element, calculating a distance between a context element embedding associated with the context element and an item element embedding associated with the item element; and updating nearest neighbor information for the item element embedding if the calculated distance is less than a distance for a current nearest neighbor.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: calculating a degree of movement between a previous item element embedding and a current item element embedding; and determining whether the degree of movement exceeds a movement threshold.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the adding the plurality of negative samples and the updating one or more embeddings are performed based on the determining that the training instance counter does not exceed the training instance threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the adding the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache to the training instance comprises: selecting the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache by incrementing a read head of the sample cache by a prime, odd number.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the writing the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache comprises: incrementing a write head of the sample cache by one after each write.
9. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform a method comprising: receiving JOINKEY information identifying a JOINKEY and embedding element information identifying a plurality of embedding elements associated with the JOINKEY; creating a training instance comprising a pre-determined number of embedding elements from the plurality of embedding elements; labeling a first embedding element of the training instance as an item element, and one or more other embedding elements of the training instance as context elements; adding a plurality of negative samples from a sample cache to the training instance, wherein the plurality of negative samples comprises a pre-determined number of negative samples that are determined based on a number of context elements; updating one or more embeddings based on the training instance; and writing the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache for potential selection as negative samples in future training instances.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the training instance comprises a plurality of context elements.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising determining that a training instance counter associated with the item element does not exceed a training instance threshold.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the adding the plurality of negative samples and the updating one or more embeddings are performed based on the determining that the training instance counter does not exceed the training instance threshold.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the adding the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache to the training instance comprises: selecting the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache by incrementing a read head of the sample cache by a prime, odd number.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the writing the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache comprises: incrementing a write head of the sample cache by one after each write.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: receiving JOINKEY information identifying a JOINKEY and embedding element information identifying a plurality of embedding elements associated with the JOINKEY; creating a training instance comprising a pre-determined number of embedding elements from the plurality of embedding elements; labeling a first embedding element of the training instance as an item element, and one or more other embedding elements of the training instance as context elements; adding a plurality of negative samples from a sample cache to the training instance, wherein the plurality of negative samples comprises a pre-determined number of negative samples that are determined based on a number of context elements; updating one or more embeddings based on the training instance; and writing the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache for potential selection as negative samples in future training instances.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the training instance comprises a plurality of context elements.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising determining that a training instance counter associated with the item element does not exceed a training instance threshold.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the adding the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache to the training instance comprises: selecting the plurality of negative samples from the sample cache by incrementing a read head of the sample cache by a prime, odd number.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the writing the context elements in the training instance to the sample cache comprises: incrementing a write head of the sample cache by one after each write.
</claims>
</document>
