<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q5/00,B60R11/02,B60R11/04,B60W30/095,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G10L13/04,G10L13/047,G10L15/16,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APEX ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABELOE, KENNETH A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749887
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and method for monitoring and controlling of a neural network using another neural network implemented on one or more solid-state chips
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus having components implemented on one or more solid-state chips. The apparatus includes an input device constructed to generate an input data value (input value), and a neural network implemented on solid-state chips trained to generate an output to control the apparatus by processing the input value. The apparatus also includes another neural network implemented on solid-state chips and configured to receive the output from the neural network. The another neural network is trained to determine whether the output of the neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition and generate a control output from the output of the neural network. The apparatus includes a processor configured receive the control output from the aforementioned another neural network, and in response to the control output indicating the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition, and control an operation of the neural network. Corresponding methods are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus having a plurality of components implemented on one or more solid-state chips, comprising: an input device configured to generate an input value; a first neural network implemented on a first one or more solid-state chips, the first neural network trained to generate an output to control the apparatus by processing the input data value; a second neural network implemented on a second one or more solid-state chips, the second neural network in communication with the first neural network to receive the output from the first neural network, the second neural network configured to determine whether the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition and to generate a control output using the output of the first neural network; and a processor configured to: receive the control output from the second neural network, and in response to the control output indicating the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition, control an operation of the first neural network, wherein the control of an operation of the first neural network comprises re-training the first neural network, using a training data set different than a training data set used to initially train the first neural network, when the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to re-train the first neural network using the input data value generated by the input device.
3. An apparatus having a plurality of components implemented on one or more solid-state chips, comprising: an input device configured to generate an input value; a first neural network implemented on a first one or more solid-state chips, the first neural network trained to generate an output to control the apparatus by processing the input data value; a second neural network implemented on a second one or more solid-state chips, the second neural network in communication with the first neural network to receive the output from the first neural network, the second neural network configured to determine whether the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition and to generate a control output using the output of the first neural network; a third neural network implemented on third one or more solid-state chips and configured to provide a second output to the second neural network, the third neural network having the same structure of nodes and layers, and trained identically, as the first neural network to generate the second output by processing the input data value, wherein the second neural network is further configured and trained to compare the output from the first neural network and the second output from the third neural network, and to detect a difference between the output from the first neural network and the second output from the third neural network; and a processor configured to: receive the control output from the second neural network, and in response to the control output indicating the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition, control an operation of the first neural network, and wherein the processor is further configured to perform a control action if the detected difference corresponds to a predetermined level.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to terminate the operation of the first neural network if the detected difference is above the predetermined level.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to re-train the first neural network if the detected difference is above the predetermined level.
6. A computer-implemented system, implemented on one or more computer hardware processors, for controlling an apparatus, comprising: means for processing an input data value using a first neural network trained to generate an output by inferencing on the input data value; means for controlling an operation of an aspect of the apparatus using the output from the first neural network; means for generating a control output using a second neural network trained to generate the control output by inferencing on the output generated by the first neural network, the control output indicating the output generated by the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined condition; and means for controlling an operation of the first neural network using the control output from the second neural network and not controlling an operation of the apparatus using the output from the first neural network in response to the first neural network output corresponding to the predetermined condition, wherein the controlled operation of the first neural network comprises retraining the first neural network using a training data set different than a training data set used to initially train the first neural network.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the means for controlling an operation of the first neural network comprises means for terminating the first neural network when the output is determined to correspond to the predetermined condition.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the means for controlling an operation of the first neural network comprises means for generating a human recognizable notification in response to determining the output corresponds to the predetermined condition.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the predetermined condition is a condition that prevents damage to the apparatus.
10. The system of claim 6, further comprising: means for receiving, from a machine recognizable human speech part, information identifying the predetermined condition; and means for defining the predetermined condition based at least in part on the information received from the machine recognizable human speech part.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the apparatus is a human speech generator comprising a loudspeaker, and means for controlling the operation using the output includes generating human speech parts to be played on the loudspeaker.
12. The system of claim 6, wherein the apparatus is an autonomous land vehicle, and the means for controlling the operation using the output includes means for generating a signal to control an autonomous land vehicle based at least in part on the output.
13. The system of claim 6, wherein the apparatus comprises an image generator.
14. An apparatus having a plurality of components, the apparatus comprising: an input device constructed to generate an input data value; a first neural network implemented on a first one or more solid-state chips, the first neural network trained to generate an output to control the apparatus by processing the input data value; a second neural network implemented on a second one or more solid-state chips, the second neural network configured to receive the output from the first neural network, the second neural network structured and trained to determine whether the output corresponds to a predetermined boundary condition and generate a control output; and a processor configured to receive the control output from the second neural network via a wireless communication network and to control the apparatus using the control output from the second neural network and not control the apparatus using the output from the first neural network in response to determining the output of the first neural network corresponds to the predetermined boundary condition.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to terminate the first neural network when the second neural network determines the output from the first neural network corresponds to the predetermined boundary condition.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the control of the operation of the first neural network comprises not providing the output of the first neural network to the processor when the output of the first neural network corresponds to a predetermined boundary condition.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the second neural network receives the output from the first neural network via a wireless communication network.
</claims>
</document>
