<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/14,G06Q10/00,G06Q50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED NEW TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, LINDONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59625617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information processing method and device for displaying service completion status
</title>

<abstract>
A first number representing a number of total items in an interface is determined. The interface is a user interface displayed by a display device. A second number representing a number of completed items in the interface is determined. The first number and the second number are displayed, by the display device, in the interface. A status of a button in the interface is determined based on the first number and the second number. Attribute information of the button is obtained. A value of the attribute information is changed based on the second number and a predetermined rule. Changing the value of the attribute information can cause a change in the displayed appearance of the button.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: displaying, by a display device, a form in a user interface with a number of items for a user to complete in the user interface; determining a first number representing a total of the number of items; receiving user input completing at least one of the number of items in the user interface; in response to the received user input, determining a second number representing a number of completed items in the user interface; displaying, in the user interface, both the first number and the second number on a button, wherein the displayed first number and the displayed second number are non-negative integers, the displayed first number is a fixed number, the displayed second number changes based on how many items of the number of items has been completed in the user interface, the button is disabled while the user is filling the form, and the button is enabled after the user has finished filling in the form with the displayed second number equal to the displayed first number; obtaining an attribute information of the button, wherein the attribute information of the button corresponds to a display appearance of the button including at least one of transparency, hue, brightness, purity, size, and shape of the button; changing a value of the attribute information based on the second number and a predetermined rule, wherein changing the value of the attribute information causes a change in the displayed appearance of the button; when the button is enabled, in response to a user clicking input on the button, submitting the completed number of items displayed in the user interface for data verification; in response to determining that one or more mandatory items of the completed number of items displayed in the user interface do not satisfy one or more operation requirements associated with the one or more mandatory items: updating the displayed second number by subtracting the number of mandatory items that do not satisfy the one or more operation requirements from the displayed second number; and after updating the displayed second number, disabling the button in the user interface.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein displaying the first number and the second number in the user interface comprises displaying a counter showing the first number and the second number at a predetermined position in the user interface, and the button is a submission button.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first number is determined based on a third number representing a number of first-type items in the user interface, and the second number is determined based on a fourth number representing a number of second-type items in the user interface that are completed by the user.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising activating the button in the user interface when the second number satisfies a predetermined condition.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first number and the second number are displayed on the button in the user interface.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the attribute information of the button includes the transparency of the button, and the transparency of the button changes from a first transparency value to a second transparency value when the second number changes from a minimum value to a maximum value.
7. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: displaying, by a display device, a form in a user interface with a number of items for a user to complete in the user interface; determining a first number representing a total of the number of items; receiving user input completing at least one of the number of items in the user interface; in response to the received user input, determining a second number representing a number of completed items in the user interface; displaying, in the user interface, both the first number and the second number on a button, wherein the displayed first number and the displayed second number are non-negative integers, the displayed first number is a fixed number, the displayed second number changes based on how many items of the number of items has been completed in the user interface, the button is disabled while the user is filling the form, and the button is enabled after the user has finished filling in the form with the displayed second number equal to the displayed first number; obtaining an attribute information of the button, wherein the attribute information of the button corresponds to a display appearance of the button including at least one of transparency, hue, brightness, purity, size, and shape of the button; changing a value of the attribute information based on the second number and a predetermined rule, wherein changing the value of the attribute information causes a change in the displayed appearance of the button; when the button is enabled, in response to a user clicking input on the button, submitting the completed number of items displayed in the user interface for data verification; in response to determining that one or more mandatory items of the completed number of items displayed in the user interface do not satisfy one or more operation requirements associated with the one or more mandatory items: updating the displayed second number by subtracting the number of mandatory items that do not satisfy the one or more operation requirements from the displayed second number; and after updating the displayed second number, disabling the button in the user interface.
8. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein displaying the first number and the second number in the user interface comprises displaying a counter showing the first number and the second number at a predetermined position in the user interface, and the button is a submission button.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the first number is determined based on a third number representing a number of first-type items in the user interface, and the second number is determined based on a fourth number representing a number of second-type items in the user interface that are completed by the user.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise activating the button in the user interface when the second number satisfies a predetermined condition.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the first number and the second number are displayed on the button in the user interface.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the attribute information of the button includes the transparency of the button, and the transparency of the button changes from a first transparency value to a second transparency value when the second number changes from a minimum value to a maximum value.
13. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: displaying, by a display device, a form in a user interface with a number of items for a user to complete in the user interface; determining a first number representing a total of the number of items; receiving user input completing at least one of the number of items in the user interface; in response to the received user input, determining a second number representing a number of completed items in the user interface; displaying, in the user interface, both the first number and the second number on a button, wherein the displayed first number and the displayed second number are non-negative integers, the displayed first number is a fixed number, the displayed second number changes based on how many items of the number of items has been completed in the user interface, the button is disabled while the user is filling the form, and the button is enabled after the user has finished filling in the form with the displayed second number equal to the displayed first number; obtaining an attribute information of the button, wherein the attribute information of the button corresponds to a display appearance of the button including at least one of transparency, hue, brightness, purity, size, and shape of the button; changing a value of the attribute information based on the second number and a predetermined rule, wherein changing the value of the attribute information causes a change in the displayed appearance of the button; when the button is enabled, in response to a user clicking input on the button, submitting the completed number of items displayed in the user interface for data verification; in response to determining that one or more mandatory items of the completed number of items displayed in the user interface do not satisfy one or more operation requirements associated with the one or more mandatory items: updating the displayed second number by subtracting the number of mandatory items that do not satisfy the one or more operation requirements from the displayed second number; and after updating the displayed second number, disabling the button in the user interface.
14. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, wherein displaying the first number and the second number in the user interface comprises displaying a counter showing the first number and the second number at a predetermined position in the user interface, and the button is a submission button.
15. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, wherein the first number is determined based on a third number representing a number of first-type items in the user interface, and the second number is determined based on a fourth number representing a number of second-type items in the user interface that are completed by the user.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise activating the button in the user interface when the second number satisfies a predetermined condition.
</claims>
</document>
