<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/246,G06T7/33,H04N9/31
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, JR., JOHN E.
BOSS, GREGORY J.
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60572864
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object tracking with a holographic projection
</title>

<abstract>
Approaches presented herein enable tracking a physical object with a holographic projection, and, more specifically, enhancing a view of an object by tracking the object with a 3-D holographic projection. A holographic object tracking projection system receives, from a sensor, a feed of an area containing a physical object and locates a position of the physical object in the area based on the feed. The system creates a visible holographic object to mark the physical object, and projects the holographic object, using a holographic projector, at the position of the physical object. The holographic object can be a shape that surrounds the physical object in order to increase a visibility of the physical object. The physical object may move, and, as the physical object moves, the holographic object tracking projection system tracks this movement and adjusts the holographic object to match the movement of the physical object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of tracking a physical object with a holographic projection, comprising: obtaining a feed from a sensor of an area containing at least one physical object; locating positions of a set of physical objects in the area based on the feed from the sensor; categorizing the set of physical objects into a set of categories; determining a distribution of the set of physical objects based on the positions; creating a set of visible holographic objects to mark the set of physical objects; and projecting, based on the set of categories and the distribution, the set of visible holographic objects into the area at the positions of the set of physical objects, each visible holographic object marking at least one physical object of the set of physical objects.
2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: locating, based on the feed, a second position of at least one physical object of the set of physical objects in the area, wherein the at least one physical object moves; and projecting a visible holographic object of the set of visible holographic objects into the area at the second position of the at least one physical object.
3. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: obtaining a search request from a user; analyzing the categorized set of physical objects for at least one physical object corresponding to the search; and indicating, with a visible holographic object, the at least one physical object corresponding to the search.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of visible holographic objects include at least one 3 dimensional holographic object inclosing at least one physical object of the set of physical objects.
5. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: projecting at least one of the visible holographic objects from a first holographic projector to a first position of at least one of the physical objects; detecting a second position of the at least one of the physical objects outside a range of the first holographic projector; and projecting an indicator of a direction towards the second position of the at least one of the physical objects.
6. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: detecting a movement of at least one of the physical objects over a boundary of the area and a final position of the at least one of the physical objects at the boundary; creating a visible holographic indicator object to indicate the at least one of the physical objects is outside the boundary; and projecting the created visible holographic indicator at the final position.
7. A computer system for tracking a physical object with a holographic projection, the computer system comprising: a sensor; a holographic projector; a memory medium comprising program instructions; a bus coupled to the memory medium; and a processor, for executing the program instructions, coupled to a holographic object tracking projection engine via the bus that when executing the program instructions causes the system to: obtain a search request from a user; obtain a feed from the sensor of an area containing a set of physical objects; locate positions of the set of physical objects in the area based on the feed from the sensor; identify the set of physical objects in the area based on the feed; analyze the identified set of physical objects for at least one physical object corresponding to the search; create a visible holographic object to mark the at least one physical object; project, by the holographic projector, the visible holographic object into the area at the position of the at least one physical object; and indicate, with the visible holographic object, the at least one physical object corresponding to the search.
8. The computer system of claim 7, the instructions further causing the system to: locate, based on the feed, a second position of the at least one physical object in the area, wherein the at least one physical object moves; and project the visible holographic object into the area at the second position of the at least one physical object.
9. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the visible holographic object is a 3 dimensional holographic object inclosing the at least one physical object.
10. The computer system of claim 7, the instructions further causing the system to: locate positions of a plurality of physical objects in the area based on the feed from the sensor; categorize the plurality of physical objects into a set of categories; determine a distribution of the plurality of physical objects based on the positions; and project, based on the set of categories and the distribution, a set of visible holographic objects into the area, each marking at least one physical object of the plurality of physical objects.
11. The computer system of claim 7, the instructions further causing the system to: project the visible holographic object from the first holographic projector to a first position of the at least one physical object; detect a second position of the at least one physical object outside a range of the first holographic projector; and project an indicator of a direction towards the second position of the at least one physical object.
12. The computer system of claim 7, the instructions further causing the system to: detect a movement of the at least one physical object over a boundary of the area and a final position of the at least one physical object at the boundary; create a visible holographic indicator object to indicate the at least one physical object is outside the boundary; and project the visible holographic indicator at the final position.
13. A computer program product for tracking a physical object with a holographic projection, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device, and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage device, to: obtain a search request from a user; obtain a feed from a sensor of an area containing a set of physical objects; locate positions of the set of physical objects in the area based on the feed from the sensor; identify the set of physical objects in the area based on the feed; analyze the identified set of physical objects for at least one physical object corresponding to the search; create a visible holographic object to mark the at least one physical object; project the visible holographic object into the area at the position of the at least one physical object; and indicate, with the visible holographic object, the at least one physical object corresponding to the search.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: locate, based on the feed, a second position of the at least one physical object in the area, wherein the at least one physical object moves; and project the visible holographic object into the area at the second position of the at least one physical object.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the visible holographic object is a 3 dimensional holographic object inclosing the at least one physical object.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: locate positions of a plurality of physical objects in the area based on the feed from the sensor; categorize the plurality of physical objects into a set of categories; determine a distribution of the plurality of physical objects based on the positions; and project, based on the set of categories and the distribution, a set of visible holographic objects into the area, each marking at least one physical object of the plurality of physical objects.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: project the visible holographic object from a first holographic projector to a first position of the at least one physical object; detect a second position of the at least one physical object outside a range of the first holographic projector; and project an indicator of a direction towards the second position of the at least one physical object.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, the computer readable storage device further comprising instructions to: detect a movement of the at least one physical object over a boundary of the area and a final position of the at least one physical object at the boundary; create a visible holographic indicator object to indicate the at least one physical object is outside the boundary; and project the visible holographic indicator at the final position.
</claims>
</document>
