<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/08,G07C5/00,G07C5/02,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG HEYUAN
DUAN NING
WANG ZHIHU
LI KAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58524030
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system to determine auto insurance risk
</title>

<abstract>
A method for evaluating fraudulent data in a Usage Based Insurance (UBI) system, includes retrieving trip data for a driver from a database. A processor on a computer determines tough context incidents in the trip data. Driving behavior of the driver during said tough context incidents is compared with driving behavior of other drivers during similar tough context incidents. The trip data is identified as potentially fraudulent if the driver's driving behavior is better by a predetermined amount compared to the other drivers' driving behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting fraudulent trip data by checking a driver's trip data during tough contextual incidents, the method comprising: receiving trip data under a Usage Based Insurance (UBI) model for a driver; determining, using a processor on a computer, tough contextual incidents in said trip data; calculating scoring metrics for said driver during said tough contextual incidents; comparing the scoring metrics of said driver during said tough contextual incidents with scoring metrics of other drivers during same tough contextual incidents; identifying said trip data as potentially fraudulent trip data if said driver's scoring metrics are better by a predetermined amount, compared to said other drivers' scoring metrics and compared to past trip data under the UBI model; and requesting a human reviewer for further review and to identify the driver as a fraudster when the identifying identifies said trip data as potentially fraudulent trip data, wherein said tough contextual incidents being determined based on one or more of weather conditions, traffic congestion, traffic periods, and driving durations, and wherein spatial-temporal constraints are dually combined, so as to avoid when the driver is stationary in place, further comprising calculating statistics of scoring metrics of other drivers under the same tough contextual incidents wherein said comparing comprises a statistical comparison of normalized scoring metrics.
2. A The method of claim 1, wherein said trip data comprises data transmitted to an insurance processing center under said (UBI) model, and wherein said scoring metrics comprise one or more of the following metrics during the tough contextual incidents: speeds, accelerations, a number of brakings determined to be a type of brakings as based on a comparison with a predefined threshold level of brakings, a frequency of braking, a number of stops, a number of turns determined to be a type of turn as based a comparison with a predefined threshold level of a turn rate, and a number of accelerations determined to be anxious accelerations as based on a comparison with a predefined threshold level of acceleration.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: said trip data comprises data transmitted from a risk meter in a vehicle being driven by said driver, said transmitted data is stored in a memory device, and said receiving trip data comprises retrieving said data from said memory device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said tough contextual incidents are determined using contextual data, said contextual data comprising at least one of data outside a control of said driver and data concerning conditions or events outside a vehicle being driven by said driver.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein said tough contextual incidents are determined based on parameter values for permutation combinations of different driving contexts, said driving contexts comprising at least road type, speed pattern, and traffic period.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said trip comprises a first trip, said method further comprising using said trip data to develop a single trip analysis for said first trip, said trip analysis comprising a matrix listing of driving behaviors by said driver along points of said first trip along with driving contextual data along segments of said first trip.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: using available trip data of other trips by said driver and available trip data of trips of other drivers to develop an overall profile analysis; and using said overall profiling analysis to determine risk hot spots along a path of said first trip and to determine benchmarks along said path of said first trip, said risk hot spots comprising locations along said path at which driving behaviors of drivers indicate driving hazards, said benchmarks comprising permutation combinations of different driving contexts including at least road type, speed pattern, and traffic period at which driving behaviors indicate driving hazards, said risk hot spots and said benchmarks indicating driving hazards beyond a preset threshold comprising said tough contextual incidents.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using said risk hot spots and said benchmarks to develop a personal profiling analysis for said driver by calculating scoring metrics for said driver at said risk hot spots and benchmarks; calculating scoring metrics statistics for risk hot spot and benchmark data for all drivers; determining whether said personal profiling analysis for said driver demonstrates a type of driving behavior, as determined by comparing the scoring metrics of said driver to a predetermined threshold value of said scoring metrics statistics; receiving any available constraint data that might explain any of said driver's type of driving behavior; and outputting said driver's personal profiling analysis as potentially a fraudster if said driver demonstrates the type of driving behavior.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising a computer program product for resource management, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform the method of claim 1.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said non-transitory storage device comprises one of: a memory in a computer storing instructions currently being executed by said computer; a memory on said computer storing instructions to selectively be executed; a standalone memory device capable of being inserted into a port of a computer to upload said computer-readable instructions; a memory in a network server providing a service to download said computer-readable instructions onto another computer accessible to said network server; a memory in a network server providing a service to perform said method; and a memory in a cloud service providing a service to perform said method.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said trip data comprises trip data for repetitive trips made by said driver.
12. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory device storing a set of computer-readable instructions to perform a method of evaluating driver data as potentially fraudulent, said method comprising: receiving trip data for a driver; determining, using a processor on a computer, tough contextual incidents in said trip data; comparing the scoring metrics of said driver during said tough contextual incidents with scoring metrics of other drivers during same tough contextual incidents; identifying said trip data as potentially fraudulent trip data if said driver's scoring metrics are better by a predetermined amount, compared to said other drivers' scoring metrics and compared to past trip data under the UBI model; and requesting a human reviewer for further review and to identify the driver as a fraudster when the identifying identifies said trip data as potentially fraudulent trip data, wherein said tough contextual incidents being determined based on one or more of weather conditions, traffic congestion, traffic periods, and driving durations, wherein spatial-temporal constraints are dually combined, so as to avoid when the driver is stationary in place, and wherein said trip comprises a first trip, said method further comprising using said trip data to develop a single trip analysis for said first trip said trip analysis comprising a matrix listing of driving behaviors by said driver along points of said first trip along with driving contextual data along segments of said first trip.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising a computer in an insurance processing center receiving driver data under a Usage-Based Insurance (UBI) model.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
15. A method of detecting potential fraud under a Usage-Based Insurance (UBI) model, said method comprising: collecting driver trip data from drivers covered under the UBI model and storing said driver trip data in a memory device, said driver trip data having associated therewith contextual data concerning said trip; selecting a driver based on payment of an insurance premium below a preset threshold amount; retrieving data from said memory device for a trip made by said driver; determining incidents of tough contextual driving during said trip, using said contextual data, said contextual data comprising information including weather and traffic conditions that are not under control of the driver; calculating scoring metrics for said driver during said tough contextual incidents; comparing said driver's scoring metrics during said tough contextual driving incidents with scoring metrics of other drivers during same tough contextual driving incidents; determining whether said driver's scoring metrics during said tough contextual driving incidents is better by a predetermined amount from said other drivers' scoring metrics; identifying said driver as a potential fraudster if it is determined that said driver's driving behavior exceeds said predetermined amount; and requesting a human reviewer for further review and to identify the driver as a fraudster when the identifying identifies said trip data as potentially fraudulent trip data, wherein said tough contextual incidents being determined based on one or more of weather conditions, traffic congestion, traffic periods, and driving durations, and wherein spatial-temporal constraints are dually combined, so as to avoid when the driver is stationary in place, further comprising: if said driver's scoring metrics exceed said predetermined amount, retrieving constraint data concerning said scoring metrics, said constraint data comprising scoring metrics of other drivers under a same spatiotemporal condition and a same tough driving contextual incident; comparing said driver's scoring metrics with scoring metrics of said constraint data; and determining whether said constraint data provides an explanation for said driver's better scoring metrics.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein said comparing comprises a statistical comparison of normalized scoring metrics.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising a computer program product for resource management, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform the method of claim 15.
18. The method of claim 1, embodied in a cloud computing environment.
</claims>
</document>
