<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/56,H04M1/64,H04M15/00,H04M15/06,H04M3/42,H04M3/436,H04W4/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOUMAIL
</assignee>

<inventors>
RUDOLPH, MICHAEL J.
QUILICI, ALEXANDER E
MALVIN, JUSTIN
VERDEGAN, JEFFREY
GISE, DYLAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60808050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for identifying unwanted communications using communication fingerprinting
</title>

<abstract>
A method for identifying communicators as wanted or unwanted based on messages from such communicators comprising receiving, by the data processing system, an inbound message from a communicator, comparing, by the data processing system, the inbound message to fingerprints stored in a database accessible to the data processing system, determining, by the data processing system, at least one match to the fingerprints, determining, by the data processing system, an identity of the communicator by determining whether and how likely the communicator is wanted or unwanted based on the at least one match to the fingerprints, and configuring, by the data processing system, handling of calls from the communicator based on the identity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a communication environment including a data processing system comprising a processor and a memory, for identifying communicators as wanted or unwanted based on messages from such communicators, the method comprising: recording, by the data processing system, communications from a plurality of communicators; generating, by the data processing system, fingerprints of message content from the recording of the communications; tagging, by the data processing system, the fingerprints with data representative of whether the message content is associated with one or more unwanted communicators; determining, by the data processing system, given ones of the fingerprints are associated with one or more unwanted communicators based on the tagging; matching, by the data processing system, at least one of the given fingerprints to an inbound communication from an unknown communicator; determining, by the data processing system, an identity of the unknown communicator as being likely unwanted based on the tagged data of the matched at least one of the given fingerprints; and automatically rejecting or disposing of communications from the unknown communicator determined to be likely unwanted.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the communications include at least one of calls, voice messages, text messages, and emails.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising electronically deploying computer-generated auditory speech to facilitate the communications with the plurality of communicators.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the identity of the unknown communicator further comprises identifying the unknown communicator as either an unwanted communicator or a wanted communicator.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising identifying, by the data processing system, that the inbound communication matches fingerprints of at least one known unwanted or wanted communicator.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising creating, by the data processing system, a database of the fingerprints from known recordings of calls or messages from unwanted or wanted communicators.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the message content used to generate the fingerprints includes content selected from the group consisting of: textual content, multimedia content, phone number, message duration, time of call, call recipients, keywords, and phrases.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising intercepting the unknown communicator based on the determined identity.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising associating descriptive identifiers to the plurality of communicators.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: transcribing the communications; and comparing the transcribed communications to verified fingerprints.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising: converting a given one of the transcribed communications into candidate fingerprints; and promoting the candidate fingerprints to verified fingerprints based on a match to a given number of other candidate fingerprints.
12. A system for identifying communicators in a communication environment as wanted or unwanted based on messages from such communicators, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory having executable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor cause the processor to: record communications from a plurality of communicators; generate fingerprints of message content from the recording of the communications; tag the fingerprints with data representative of whether the message content is associated with one or more unwanted communicators; determine given ones of the fingerprints are associated with one or more unwanted communicators based on the tagging; match at least one of the given fingerprints to an inbound communication from an unknown communicator; determine an identity of the unknown communicator as being likely unwanted based on the tagged data of the matched at least one of the given fingerprints; and automatically reject or dispose of communications from the unknown communicator determined to be likely unwanted.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein the communications include at least one of calls, voice messages, text messages, and emails.
14. The system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further configured to deploy computer-generated auditory speech to facilitate the communications with the plurality of communicators.
15. The system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further configured to identify the unknown communicator as either an unwanted communicator or a wanted communicator.
16. The system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further configured to identify that the inbound communication matches fingerprints of at least one known unwanted or wanted communicator.
17. The system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further configured to create a database of the fingerprints from known recordings of calls or messages from unwanted or wanted communicators.
18. The system of claim 12 wherein the message content used to generate the fingerprints includes content selected from the group consisting of: textual content, multimedia content, phone number, message duration, time of call, call recipients, keywords, and phrases.
19. The system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further configured to intercept the unknown communicator based on the determined identity.
20. Non-transitory computer-readable media comprising program code that when executed by a programmable processor causes execution of a method for identifying communicators in a communication environment as wanted or unwanted based on messages from such communicators, the computer-readable media comprising: computer program code for recording communications from a plurality of communicators; computer program code for generating fingerprints of message content from the recording of the communications; computer program code for tagging the fingerprints with data representative of whether the message content is associated with one or more unwanted communicators; computer program code for determining given ones of the fingerprints are associated with one or more unwanted communicators based on the tagging; computer program code for matching the given fingerprints to an inbound communication from an unknown communicator; and computer program code for determining an identity of the unknown communicator as being likely unwanted based on the tagged data of the matched at least one of the given fingerprints; and computer program code for automatically rejecting or disposing of communications from the unknown communicator determined to be likely unwanted.
</claims>
</document>
