<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/04,E21B47/06,G06F17/18,G06F17/50,G06F30/20,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INDEPENDENT ENERGY STANDARDS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAULKINS, V, HORACE JAMES
LUQUIST, DEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58189526
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer-implemented impact analysis of energy facilities
</title>

<abstract>
A data processing method for execution using a programmed computer to generate an objective score value specifying an estimated impact of an oil or gas processing operation comprises: receiving a plurality of data associated with the oil or gas processing operation; identifying, using the plurality of data, a plurality of events that may occur during the oil or gas processing operation; for each event of the plurality of events, determining a relative weighting of potential impact of the event for the oil or gas processing operation using local conditions and a master event profile for the event; for each event of the plurality of events, determining an effectiveness of one or more control efforts; for each event of the plurality of events, determining a score using the relative weighting of the potential impact of the event and the effectiveness of the one or more control efforts; determining the objective digitally stored score value for the oil or gas processing operation using the score for each event of the plurality of events and benchmarking the objective digitally stored score value to a plurality of objective digitally stored score values for other oil or gas processing operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing method for execution using a programmed computer to generate a digitally stored objective score value specifying an estimated impact of an oil or gas processing operation on safety, health, production efficiency or economics, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of digital data associated with the oil or gas processing operation; identifying, using the plurality of data, a plurality of events that may occur during the oil or gas processing operation and storing digital data representing the plurality of events; for each event of the plurality of events, generating an event-specific impact score, wherein the event-specific impact score represents the impact for each event relative to the impact of other events; generating, using the event-specific impact score for each event, a normalized impact index for the plurality of events, wherein the normalized impact index comprises one or more distributions of impact magnitudes for the plurality of events; for each event of the plurality of events, generating a digitally stored master event profile, wherein the master event profile is generated using the normalized impact index and one or more variables associated with each event, and wherein the digitally stored master event profile comprises one or more distributions of impact magnitudes for each event; for each event of the plurality of events, using a first programmed algorithm, determining a relative weighting of potential impact of the event on safety, health, production efficiency or economics for the oil or gas processing operation using digitally stored data representing local conditions and the digitally stored master event profile for the event; for each event of the plurality of events, generating one or more control assessment frameworks, wherein each control assessment framework is associated with a control effort that have been defined for the oil or gas processing operation, and wherein each control assessment framework is a tree data structure comprising of one or more nodes, and wherein each node represents a component of the control effort; for each event of the plurality of events, using the one or more control assessment frameworks, determining and digitally storing an effectiveness value representing an effectiveness of one or more control efforts that have been defined for the oil or gas processing operation; for each event of the plurality of events, using a second programmed algorithm, determining and digitally storing a score value using the relative weighting of the potential impact of the event and the effectiveness value of the one or more control efforts; determining the objective digitally stored score value for the oil or gas processing operation using the score value for each event of the plurality of events and benchmarking the objective digitally stored score value to a plurality of objective digitally stored score values for other oil or gas processing operations; wherein the steps are performed using one or more processors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the oil or gas processing operation is an oil processing operation, an oil well, a natural gas processing operation, a natural gas well, or a salt water disposal well.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein local conditions comprise one or more of: population density, community engagement, sensitivity of environment, animal density, and land value.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data comprises one or more of: a latitude value, a longitude value, an address value, a temperature value, a pressure value representing a pressure of a well, a well depth value, and digital values representing the one or more control efforts.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more variables associated with each event is based on one or more of: historical data, research data, analogous data, and expert data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the master event profile is associated with a geographical region.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the effectiveness of the one or more control efforts is relative.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an absolute effectiveness for each of the one or more control efforts for a particular event using a plurality of occurrences of the particular event and any control efforts in place.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of other oil or gas processing operations comprise oil or gas processing operations of different companies and oil or gas processing operations in different locations.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing one or more suggestions for improving the objective digitally stored score value.
11. A computer system comprising: a computing device comprising one or more processors; an electronic digital data storage device coupled to the one or more processors and storing one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processor to perform: receiving a plurality of digital data associated with the oil or gas processing operation; identifying, using the plurality of data, a plurality of events that may occur during the oil or gas processing operation and storing digital data representing the plurality of events; for each event of the plurality of events, generating an event-specific impact score, wherein the event-specific impact score represents the impact for each event relative to the impact of other events; generating, using the event-specific impact score for each event, a normalized impact index for the plurality of events, wherein the normalized impact index comprises one or more distributions of impact magnitudes for the plurality of events; for each event of the plurality of events, generating a digitally stored master event profile, wherein the master event profile is generated using the normalized impact index and one or more variables associated with each event, and wherein the digitally stored master event profile comprises one or more distributions of impact magnitudes for each event; for each event of the plurality of events, using a first programmed algorithm, determining a relative weighting of potential impact of the event on safety, health, production efficiency or economics for the oil or gas processing operation using digitally stored data representing local conditions and the digitally stored master event profile for the event; for each event of the plurality of events, generating one or more control assessment frameworks, wherein each control assessment framework is associated with a control effort that have been defined for the oil or gas processing operation, and wherein each control assessment framework is a tree data structure comprising of one or more nodes, and wherein each node represents a component of the control effort; for each event of the plurality of events, using the one or more control assessment frameworks, determining and digitally storing an effectiveness value representing an effectiveness of one or more control efforts that have been defined for the oil or gas processing operation; for each event of the plurality of events, using a second programmed algorithm, determining and digitally storing a score value using the relative weighting of the potential impact of the event and the effectiveness value of the one or more control efforts; determining the objective digitally stored score value for the oil or gas processing operation using the score value for each event of the plurality of events and benchmarking the objective digitally stored score value to a plurality of objective digitally stored score values for other oil or gas processing operations; wherein the steps are performed using one or more processors.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the oil or gas processing operation is an oil processing operation, an oil well, a natural gas processing operation, a natural gas well, or a salt water disposal well.
13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein local conditions comprise one or more of: population density, community engagement, sensitivity of environment, animal density, and land value.
14. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of data comprises one or more of: a latitude value, a longitude value, an address value, a temperature value, a pressure value representing a pressure of a well, a well depth value, and digital values representing the one or more control efforts.
15. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the one or more variables associated with each event is based on one or more of: historical data, research data, analogous data, and expert data.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the master event profile is associated with a geographical region.
17. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the effectiveness of the one or more control efforts is relative.
18. The computer system of claim 11, the one or more sequences of instructions further causing the processor to perform: determining an absolute effectiveness for each of the one or more control efforts for a particular event using a plurality of occurrences of the particular event and any control efforts in place.
19. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of other oil or gas processing operations comprise oil or gas processing operations of different companies and oil or gas processing operations in different locations.
20. The computer system of claim 11, the one or more sequences of instructions further causing the processor to perform: providing one or more suggestions for improving the objective digitally stored score value.
</claims>
</document>
