<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/155,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAZAN, ALON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66950506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive segmentation of lesions in medical images
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising using at least one hardware processor for: receiving a digital medical image and a binary image mask, wherein the binary image mask depicts a segmentation of a lesion in the digital medical image; computing a plurality of layers of the lesion; for each of the plurality of layers of the lesion, extracting layer features; and sending the extracted layer features to a lesion classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising using at least one hardware processor for: receiving a digital medical image and a binary image mask, wherein the binary image mask depicts a segmentation of a lesion in the digital medical image; computing a plurality of layers of the lesion, wherein the computing is selected from the group consisting of: (a) computing the plurality of layers iteratively, wherein: a first iteration comprises performing morphological erosion of the binary image mask, and subtracting the eroded binary image mask from the binary image mask, and each following iteration comprises performing additional morphological erosion of the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, and subtracting the additionally-eroded binary image mask from the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, (b) computing the plurality of layers by ray tracing, comprising: computing a center of mass of the digital medical image, tracing a plurality of rays from the center of mass to the edge of the binary image mask, marking an equal number of ray segments for each of the plurality of rays, and creating layers by drawing a layer boundary through the ends of each ray segment across the plurality of rays; for each of the plurality of layers of the lesion, extracting layer features; and sending the extracted layer features to a lesion classifier.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein a seed used in the morphological erosion is at least one of: isotropic, anisotropic, constant size across iterations, different size for each iteration, constant size over the surface of the lesion, different size over the surface of the lesion, constant size throughout the volume of the lesion, different size throughout the volume of the lesion, and variable size according to the distance to the original lesion surface.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of layers comprise at least one external layer computed outside the binary image mask.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the digital medical image is a two-dimensional (2D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 2D annular regions following an edge of the lesion.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the digital medical image is a three-dimensional (3D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 3D shells following a surface of the lesion.
6. A computer program product for lesion feature extraction, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one hardware processor to: receive a digital medical image and a binary image mask, wherein the binary image mask depicts a segmentation of a lesion in the digital medical image; compute a plurality of layers of the lesion, wherein the computing is selected from the group consisting of: (a) computing the plurality of layers iteratively, wherein: a first iteration comprises performing morphological erosion of the binary image mask, and subtracting the eroded binary image mask from the binary image mask, and each following iteration comprises performing additional morphological erosion of the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, and subtracting the additionally-eroded binary image mask from the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, (b) computing the plurality of layers by ray tracing, comprising: computing a center of mass of the digital medical image, tracing a plurality of rays from the center of mass to the edge of the binary image mask, marking an equal number of ray segments for each of the plurality of rays, and creating layers by drawing a layer boundary through the ends of each ray segment across the plurality of rays; for each of the plurality of layers of the lesion, extract layer features; and send the extracted layer features to a lesion classifier.
7. The computer program product according to claim 6, wherein a seed used in the morphological erosion is at least one of: isotropic, anisotropic, constant size across iterations, different size for each iteration, constant size over the surface of the lesion, different size over the surface of the lesion, constant size throughout the volume of the lesion, different size throughout the volume of the lesion, and variable size according to the distance to the original lesion surface.
8. The computer program product according to claim 6, wherein the plurality of layers comprise at least one external layer computed outside the binary image mask.
9. The computer program product according to claim 6, wherein the digital medical image is a two-dimensional (2D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 2D annular regions following an edge of the lesion.
10. The computer program product according to claim 6, wherein the digital medical image is a three-dimensional (3D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 3D shells following a surface of the lesion.
11. A system for lesion feature extraction, comprising: at least one hardware processor; a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by the at least one hardware processor to: i) receive a digital medical image and a binary image mask, wherein the binary image mask depicts a segmentation of a lesion in the digital medical image; ii) compute a plurality of layers of the lesion, wherein the computing is selected from the group consisting of: (a) computing the plurality of layers iteratively, wherein: a first iteration comprises performing morphological erosion of the binary image mask, and subtracting the eroded binary image mask from the binary image mask, and each following iteration comprises performing additional morphological erosion of the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, and subtracting the additionally-eroded binary image mask from the eroded binary image mask of the previous iteration, (b) computing the plurality of layers by ray tracing, comprising: computing a center of mass of the digital medical image, tracing a plurality of rays from the center of mass to the edge of the binary image mask, marking an equal number of ray segments for each of the plurality of rays, and creating layers by drawing a layer boundary through the ends of each ray segment across the plurality of rays; iii) for each of the plurality of layers of the lesion, extract layer features; and iv) send the extracted layer features to a lesion classifier.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein a seed used in the morphological erosion is at least one of: isotropic, anisotropic, constant size across iterations, different size for each iteration, constant size over the surface of the lesion, different size over the surface of the lesion, constant size throughout the volume of the lesion, different size throughout the volume of the lesion, and variable size according to the distance to the original lesion surface.
13. The system according to claim 11, wherein the digital medical image is a two-dimensional (2D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 2D annular regions following an edge of the lesion.
14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the digital medical image is a three-dimensional (3D) medical image and the plurality of layers are 3D shells following a surface of the lesion.
</claims>
</document>
