<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B3/06,H04B3/52,H04B3/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BARZEGAR FARHAD
BENNETT, ROBERT
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
WOLNIANSKY, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750196
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Transmission device with corona discharge mitigation and methods for use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one or more embodiments, a transmission device includes a transmitter configured to generate a transmit signal conveying transmit data in accordance with a communication protocol having first protocol transmit parameters. A coupler is configured to convert the transmit signal to transmitted guided electromagnetic waves that propagate along a surface of a transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path. The coupler is further configured to convert to a receive signal, received guided electromagnetic waves from a remote device that propagate along the surface of the transmission medium, wherein the remote device is configured to receive the transmitted guided electromagnetic waves. A corona discharge detector is configured to generate, based on the receive signal, corona discharge data that indicates corona discharge activity in proximity to the transmission medium during a time period. Responsive to the corona discharge data, the transmitter modifies the communication protocol to second protocol transmit parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A transmission device comprising: a transmitter configured to generate a transmit signal conveying transmit data in accordance with a communication protocol having first protocol transmit parameters; a coupler configured to convert the transmit signal to transmitted guided electromagnetic waves that propagate along a surface of a transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, the coupler further configured to convert to a receive signal, received guided electromagnetic waves from a remote device that propagate along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the remote device is configured to receive the transmitted guided electromagnetic waves; and a corona discharge detector configured to generate, based on the receive signal, corona discharge data that indicates corona discharge activity in proximity to the transmission medium during a time period; wherein, responsive to the corona discharge data, the transmitter modifies the communication protocol to second protocol transmit parameters, and wherein the transmitter restores the communication protocol to the first protocol transmit parameters in response to the corona discharge data indicating the time period has ended.
2. The transmission device of claim 1, further comprising: a receiver configured to generate received data from the receive signal in accordance with the communication protocol and first receive protocol parameters; wherein, responsive to the corona discharge data, the receiver modifies the communication protocol to second receive protocol parameters.
3. The transmission device of claim 2, further comprising: a diplexer configured to couple the transmitter and the receiver to the coupler.
4. The transmission device of claim 1, wherein the corona discharge detector includes: a filter configured to generate a filter signal based on the receive signal; a peak detector configured to generate a corona discharge indicator, based on the filter signal; and a processing circuit configured to generate a corona discharge activity indicator, based on the corona discharge indicator, wherein the corona discharge data includes the corona discharge activity indicator.
5. The transmission device of claim 4, wherein the peak detector compares a magnitude of the filter signal to a corona discharge threshold and generates the corona discharge indicator to indicate a corona discharge when the magnitude of the filter signal exceeds the corona discharge threshold.
6. The transmission device of claim 4, wherein the processing circuit determines a number of corona discharges within a time window and generates the corona discharge activity indicator to indicate the corona discharge activity when the number of corona discharges within the time window exceeds a corona discharge activity threshold.
7. The transmission device of claim 4, wherein the transmission medium further provides distribution of a power signal and wherein the filter has a lower cut-off frequency that is above a frequency of the power signal.
8. The transmission device of claim 4, wherein the filter has a higher cut-off frequency less than 500 MHz.
9. A method comprising: generating a transmit signal conveying transmit data in accordance with a communication protocol having first protocol transmit parameters; converting, via a coupler, the transmit signal to transmitted guided electromagnetic waves that propagate along a surface of a transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; converting to a receive signal, via the coupler, received guided electromagnetic waves from a remote device that propagate along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the remote device is configured to receive the transmitted guided electromagnetic waves; generating, based on the receive signal, corona discharge data that indicates corona discharge activity in proximity to the transmission medium during a time period; modifying, responsive to the corona discharge data, the communication protocol to second transmit protocol parameters; and restoring the communication protocol to the first protocol transmit parameters in response to the corona discharge data indicating the time period has ended.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: generating received data from the receive signal in accordance with the communication protocol and first receive protocol parameters; modifying, responsive to the corona discharge data, the communication protocol to second receive protocol parameters.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the corona discharge data includes: generating, via a filter, a filter signal based on the receive signal; generating, via a peak detector, a corona discharge indicator, based on the filter signal; and generating a corona discharge activity indicator, based on the corona discharge indicator, wherein the corona discharge data includes the corona discharge activity indicator.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the peak detector compares a magnitude of the filter signal to a corona discharge threshold and generates the corona discharge indicator to indicate the corona discharge when the magnitude of the filter signal exceeds the corona discharge threshold.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the transmission medium further provides distribution of a power signal and wherein the filter has a lower cut-off frequency that is above a frequency of the power signal.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the filter has a higher cut-off frequency less than 500 MHz.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the corona discharge activity indicator includes: determining a number of corona discharges within a time window; and generating the corona discharge activity indicator to indicate the corona discharge activity when the number of corona discharges within the time window exceeds a corona discharge activity threshold.
16. A device comprising: means for generating a transmit signal conveying transmit data in accordance with a communication protocol having first protocol transmit parameters; means for converting the transmit signal to transmitted guided electromagnetic waves that propagate along a surface of a transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; means for converting to a receive signal, received guided electromagnetic waves from a remote device that propagate along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the remote device is configured to receive the transmitted guided electromagnetic waves; means for generating, based on the receive signal, corona discharge data that indicates corona discharge activity in proximity to the transmission medium during a time period; means for modifying, responsive to the corona discharge data, the communication protocol to second transmit protocol parameters; and means for restoring the communication protocol to the first protocol transmit parameters in response to the corona discharge data indicating the time period has ended.
17. The device of claim 16, further comprising: means for generating a filter signal based on the receive signal.
18. The device of claim 17, further comprising: means for generating a corona discharge indicator based on the filter signal.
19. The device of claim 18, further comprising: means for generating a corona discharge activity indicator based on the corona discharge indicator, wherein the corona discharge data includes the corona discharge activity indicator.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the means for generating the corona discharge activity indicator include: means for determining a number of corona discharges within a time window; and means for generating the corona discharge activity indicator to indicate the corona discharge activity when the number of corona discharges within the time window exceeds a corona discharge activity threshold.
</claims>
</document>
