<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/00,H04M1/253,H04M1/60,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRADY, PATRICK
TAM, JIA WEI
BILLINGHURST, SABRINA SILK
CHOI, GYEONG SIK
WUNDERLICH, LAUREN
MOLES, BRYAN JEFFERY
GALANES, FRANCISCO MANUEL
SHEN, YUANJIAO
YAN, ZHONGXIA
XIONG, HENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63685169
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Maintaining an automobile configuration of a mobile computing device while switching between automobile and non-automobile user interfaces
</title>

<abstract>
A device is described that, while operating in an automobile configuration, causes a vehicle system of an automobile to display part of an automobile graphical user interface (GUI) while locally displaying a different part of the automobile GUI. Responsive to receiving user input for switching to a non-automobile GUI that permits access to at least some features of the device that are restricted by the automobile GUI, the device replaces the part of the automobile GUI that is locally displayed on the device with the non-automobile GUI, all while continuing to cause the vehicle system to display its part of the automobile GUI. The device accesses the at least some features of the device and responsive to receiving user input for switching back to the automobile GUI, the device replaces the non-automobile GUI with the part of the automobile GUI that was previously displayed by the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: while a mobile computing device operate in a automobile configuration: outputting, by the mobile computing device into a vehicle computing system of a vehicle, a first graphical user interface for an application; while outputting the first graphical user interface for the application to the vehicle computing system, displaying, by a display of the mobile computing device, a second graphical user interface that is different from the first graphical user interface; receiving, by the mobile computing device, a user input; and responsive to receiving the user input and while continuing to output, by the mobile computing device and to the vehicle computing system, the first graphical user interface for the application, displaying, by the display of the mobile computing device, a third graphical user interface that includes respective icons for a plurality of applications.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: while outputting the first graphical user interface for the application to the vehicle computing system: receiving, by the mobile computing device, a user input selecting one of the respective icons; executing, by the mobile computing device, an application associated with the one of the respective icons; and displaying, by the display of the mobile computing device, a graphical user interface for the application associated with the one of the respective icons.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the display of the mobile computing device is a presence-sensitive display, and wherein the user input comprises a tap or double-tap gesture detected at a location of the presence-sensitive display that corresponds to a location of the presence-sensitive display at which the one of the respective icons is displayed.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second graphical user interface is a different graphical user interface for the application.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after displaying the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons for the plurality of applications: receiving, by the mobile computing device, a user input for ceasing display of the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons; and ceasing to display, by the display of the mobile computing device, the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein ceasing to display the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons comprises: displaying, by the display of the mobile computing device, a lock screen graphical user interface.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein ceasing to display the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons comprises: displaying, by the display of the mobile computing device, an updated graphical user interface for the application.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second graphical user interface is a different graphical user interface for the application.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the second graphical user interface is a lock screen graphical user interface.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile computing device is communicatively coupled, via a wired or wireless connection, to the vehicle system when the mobile computing device operates in the automobile configuration.
11. A computing device comprising: a display component that displays a first graphical user interface; a communication unit that communicatively couples the computing device to a vehicle computing system of a vehicle; and at least one processor that, while the computing device operates in a automobile configuration, is configured to: output, to the vehicle computing system of the vehicle and via the communication unit, a second graphical user interface for an application while the display component is displaying the first graphical user interface, wherein the second graphical user interface is different from the first graphical user interface; receive a user input; and responsive to receiving the user input and while continuing to output the second graphical user interface to the vehicle computing system, output, for display by the display component, a third graphical user interface that includes respective icons for a plurality of applications.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the user input is a first user input, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: while outputting the second graphical user interface for the application to the vehicle computing system: receive a second user input selecting one of the respective icons; execute an application associated with the one of the respective icons, wherein the application associated with the one of the respective icons is different from the application associate with the second graphical user interface; and output, for display by the display component, a graphical user interface for the application associated with the one of the respective icons.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: after outputting the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons for the plurality of applications: receive a user input for ceasing display, by the display component, of the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons; and cease outputting, to the display component for display, the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is configured to cease outputting the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons by being configured to: output, for display by the display component, a lock screen graphical user interface; or output, for display by the display component, an updated graphical user interface for the application.
15. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the first graphical user interface is a different graphical user interface for the application or a lock screen graphical user interface.
16. A computer-readable storage medium encoded with instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors of a computing device to: output, to a vehicle computing system of a vehicle, a first graphical user interface for an application; while outputting the first graphical user interface for the application to the vehicle computing system, output, for display by a display of the computing device, a second graphical user interface that is different from the first graphical user interface; receive an indication of a user input; and responsive to receiving the indication of the user input and while continuing to output, to the vehicle computing system, the first graphical user interface for the application, output, for display by the display of the computing device, a third graphical user interface that includes respective icons for a plurality of applications.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: while outputting the first graphical user interface for the application to the vehicle computing system: receive an indication of a second user input selecting one of the respective icons; execute an application associated with the one of the respective icons, wherein the application associated with the one of the respective icons is different from the application associate with the second graphical user interface; and output, for display by the display, a graphical user interface for the application associated with the one of the respective icons.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: after outputting the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons for the plurality of applications: receive an indication of a user input for ceasing output of the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons; and cease outputting, for display, the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions that cause the one or more processors to cease outputting the graphical user interface that includes the respective icons includes instructions that cause the one or more processors to: output, for display by the display, a lock screen graphical user interface; or output, for display by the display, an updated graphical user interface for the application.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the second graphical user interface is a different graphical user interface for the application or a lock screen graphical user interface.
</claims>
</document>
