<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/041,G06F3/0488,G06K9/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CRANE, DARIEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRANE, DARIEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65721411
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Capturing electronic signatures via captive portal
</title>

<abstract>
A capture device obtains customer data and electronic signatures via a captive portal. The capture device analyzes a digital form provided by a user and automatically configures a digital version of the form for signing. When a client device associated with a customer connects to the capture device, the capture device triggers a captive portal to appear on the client device. The capture device renders the digital form within the captive portal. The customer can then fill out, electronically sign, and submit the form. The capture device generates an audit trail for the electronically signed form based on identifying data captured transparently from the client device. The capture device establishes a secure connection with the client device for enhanced security and to prevent the client device from displaying security warnings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating electronically signed documents, the method comprising: causing a captive portal to appear on a client device when the client device joins a first network; causing the captive portal to display a first web page; obtaining a first electronic signature from the client device based on a first user interaction with the first web page; generating a first audit trail that includes first identifying information derived from the client device; and generating a first electronically signed document based on the first electronic signature and the first audit trail.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the captive portal to appear on the client device comprises: redirecting a first request received from the client device; and issuing a status code to the client device in conjunction with redirecting the first request.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the captive portal to display the first web page comprises rendering the first web page based on a first electronic form, wherein each of the first web page and the first electronic form includes a first field for gathering user data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the first electronic signature from the client device comprises causing the client device to register a sequence of touch events corresponding to one or more gestures performed by the first user with a touch screen associated with the client device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining the first identifying data from the client device.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein obtaining the first identifying data from the client device comprises determining at least one of a media access control address of the client device, a name associated with the client device, a name associated with the first user, global positioning system coordinates associated with the client device, and biometric data associated with the first user.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein generating the first audit trail comprises: generating a first audit trail entry that includes the first identifying data and a first timestamp indicating when the client device joined the first network; and generating a second audit trail entry that includes the first identifying data and a second timestamp indicating when the first electronic signature was obtained.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein generating the first electronically signed document comprises combining a first electronic form with the first electronic signature and the first audit trail.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing a first electronic form to identify a first field; generating a first document interface that indicates a first label corresponding to the first field and a first field type corresponding to the first field; and generating the first web page based on the first document interface, wherein the first web page includes the first label and a first input element corresponding to the first field type.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: obtaining first data via the first input element based on a second user interaction with the first web page; and updating the first document interface to include the first data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the first document interface further includes first position information corresponding to the first field, and wherein generating the first electronically signed document comprises inserting the first data into the first electronic form based on the first position information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the captive portal to display the first web page comprises: performing a computer vision analysis of a first electronic form to generate a first document interface, wherein the first document interface indicates a first structural attribute of the first electronic form; generating the first web page based on the first document interface, wherein the first web page is structured according to the first structural attribute; and transmitting the first web page to the client device to service a first request received from the client device.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing program instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to generate electronically signed documents by performing the steps of: causing a captive portal to appear on a client device when the client device joins a first network; causing the captive portal to display a first web page; obtaining a first electronic signature from the client device based on a first user interaction with the first web page; generating a first audit trail that includes first identifying information derived from the client device; and generating a first electronically signed document based on the first electronic signature and the first audit trail.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, further comprising the steps of obtaining the first identifying data from the client device, wherein the first identifying data includes at least one of a media access control address of the client device, a name associated with the client device, a name associated with the first user, global positioning system coordinates associated with the client device, and biometric data associated with the first user.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, further comprising the steps of: analyzing a first electronic form to identify a first field; generating a first document interface that indicates a first label corresponding to the first field and a first field type corresponding to the first field; generating the first web page based on the first document interface, wherein the first web page includes the first label and a first input element corresponding to the first field type; obtaining first data via the first input element based on a second user interaction with the first web page; and updating the first document interface to include the first data.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first document interface further includes first position information corresponding to the first field, and wherein generating the first electronically signed document comprises inserting the first data into the first electronic form based on the first position information.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the step of causing the captive portal to display the first web page comprises: performing a computer vision analysis of a first electronic form to generate a first document interface, wherein the first document interface indicates a first structural attribute of the first electronic form; generating the first web page based on the first document interface, wherein the first web page is structured according to the first structural attribute; and transmitting the first web page to the client device to service a first request received from the client device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the step of causing the captive portal to appear on the client device comprises: receiving a first request that is transmitted by the client device; and redirecting the first request from a first domain to a second domain.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the step of causing the captive portal to display the first web page comprises: transmitting a first set of instructions to the client device that causes the client device to transmit a second request to a first web server instead of a second web server, wherein the first webserver performs a secure socket layer handshake with the client device using a first certificate issued by a certificate authority for the second domain to establish an encrypted communication channel with the client device; and transmitting the first web page over the encrypted communication channel.
20. A system, comprising: a memory storing a software application; and a processor that, when executing the software application, is configured to perform the steps of: redirecting a first request that is received from a client device from a first domain to a second domain to cause a captive portal to appear on the client device when the client device joins a first network, transmitting a first set of instructions to the client device that causes the client device to transmit a second request to a first web server instead of a second web server, wherein the first webserver performs a secure socket layer handshake with the client device using a first certificate issued by a certificate authority for the second domain to establish an encrypted communication channel with the client device, transmitting a first web page to the client device over the encrypted communication channel to cause the captive portal to display the first web page, obtaining a first electronic signature from the client device based on a first user interaction with the first web page, and generating a first electronically signed document based on the first electronic signature.
</claims>
</document>
