<document>

<filing_date>
2012-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-04-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/68,C12Q1/6809,C12Q1/6837,G06F19/20,G06F19/24,G16B25/00,G16B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
THE BROAD INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOLUB, TODD, R.
LAMB, JUSTIN
SUBRAMANIAN, ARAVIND
PECK, DAVID D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
48042450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gene-expression profiling with reduced numbers of transcript measurements
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides compositions and methods for making and using a transcriptome-wide gene-expression profiling platform that measures the expression levels of only a select subset of the total number of transcripts. Because gene expression is believed to be highly correlated, direct measurement of a small number (for example, 1,000) of appropriately-selected transcripts allows the expression levels of the remainder to be inferred. The present invention, therefore, has the potential to reduce the cost and increase the throughput of full-transcriptome gene-expression profiling relative to the well-known conventional approaches that require all transcripts to be measured.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for making a transcriptome-wide expression profile of a biological sample, said method consisting essentially of: a) measuring simultaneously the expression levels of a selected group of approximately 500 to approximately 1000 centroid genes set forth in Table 3, wherein said measuring comprises ligation-mediated amplification; b) determining the expression levels of unmeasured non-centroid genes and unmeasured non-selected centroid genes from the measured expression levels obtain in step (a); c) combining the results of steps (a) and (b) to produce a transcriptome-wide expression profile; and d) providing the transcriptome-wide expression profile as output data, wherein the biological sample comprises a plurality of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts, and wherein the transcriptome consists of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the selection of centroid genes to be measured is provided by a) performing computational analysis on a library of transcriptome-wide transcript expression data, such that a plurality of transcript clusters is created, wherein the number of said clusters is less than the total number of transcripts in the library; b) identifying a centroid transcript and non-centroid transcripts within each of said transcript clusters wherein each centroid transcript is the expression from a respective centroid gene and each non-centroid transcript is the expression from a respective non-centroid gene and wherein the measured expression levels of said centroid gene facilitates the calculation of the levels of at least a portion of transcripts from said non-centroid genes; and c) selecting said centroid genes whose said expression levels facilitate the calculation of the levels of said portion of unmeasured, non-centroid transcripts.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said computational analysis includes cluster analysis.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein said method further comprises repeating the steps thereof until validated centroid transcripts for each of said plurality of transcript clusters are identified.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein expression levels are measured on a device selected from the group consisting of a microarray, a bead array, a liquid array, and a nucleic-acid sequencer.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein said method steps include: a) performing computational analysis on a first library of transcriptome-wide mRNA expression data from a first collection of biological samples, such that a plurality of transcript clusters is created, wherein the number of said clusters is less than the total number of transcripts in the library; b) identifying a centroid transcript and non-centroid transcripts within each of said transcript clusters, wherein each centroid transcript is the expression from a respective centroid gene and each non-centroid transcript is the expression from a respective non-centroid gene; c) measuring the levels of at least a portion of transcripts from a second collection of biological samples with said device, wherein said portion of transcripts comprises transcripts identified as centroid transcripts from the first library; d) determining if said measured expression levels of said centroid genes facilitates the calculation of the levels of at least a portion of transcripts from said second library, wherein said portion is comprised of non-centroid transcripts; and e) selecting said centroid genes whose said expression levels facilitate the calculation of the levels of said portion of unmeasured, non-centroid transcripts.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the expression levels of non-centroid genes are determined by: applying an algorithm to said measured expression level of the selected centroid genes of Table 3 in step (a), wherein the algorithm facilitates the calculation of the level of the non-centroid transcripts that are not measured.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said algorithm involves a dependency matrix.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein said measured transcripts consist of 1000 different sample transcripts that are the 1000 centroid transcripts set forth in Table 3.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein said method further comprises repeating the steps for providing the centroid transcripts until validated centroid transcripts for each of said plurality of transcript clusters are identified.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said measured transcripts are expressed from approximately 1000 selected centroid genes set forth in Table 3.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein said method further comprises determining similarity between said determined transcriptome-wide expression profile and expression profiles of diseased and normal cells or tissues, to further identify said biological sample as diseased or as healthy.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein said transcriptome-wide expression profile provides a functional readout of the action of a perturbagen.
14. The method according to claim 11, wherein said biological sample comprises cultured human cells treated with a plurality of perturbagens, and said method further comprises repeatedly performing the method with different biological samples to obtain a plurality of transcriptome-wide expression profiles, and populating a database with the plurality of transcriptome-wide gene-expression profiles.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein said method further comprises measuring expression levels of substantially invariant transcripts.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein said measured expression levels are normalized with respect to said expression levels of said substantially invariant transcripts.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein said method further comprises establishing a correlation between said expression levels of the selected group of centroid genes and said expression levels of said non-centroid genes.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the expression levels of non-centroid genes are determined by: applying an algorithm to said measured expression level of the selected centroid genes of Table 3 in step (a), wherein the algorithm facilitates the calculation of the level of the non-centroid transcripts that are not measured transcripts within said second population.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein said algorithm involves a dependency matrix.
20. The method according to claim 1, wherein said method further comprises determining similarity between said determined transcriptome-wide expression profile and expression profiles of diseased and normal cells or tissues to characterize said biological sample as diseased or as healthy.
21. The method according to claim 1, wherein said transcriptome-wide expression profile provides a functional readout of the action of a perturbagen.
22. The method according to claim 1, wherein said biological sample comprises cultured human cells treated with a plurality of perturbagens, and said method steps include repeatedly performing the method with different biological samples to obtain a plurality of transcriptome-wide expression profiles, and populating a database with the plurality of transcriptome-wide gene-expression profiles.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein said method further comprises analyzing the database populated with the plurality of transcriptome-wide gene expression profiles against another gene-expression profile or database of gene-expression profiles for similarities.
24. The method according to claim 1, wherein said method further comprises measuring levels of substantially invariant transcripts.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein said measured levels of the centroid transcripts are normalized with respect to said levels of said substantially invariant transcripts.
26. The method of claim 1 wherein said ligation mediated amplification comprises using probe pairs for each of the sample transcripts that are centroid transcripts, obtaining and fluorescence labeling amplicons, detecting fluorescence, and associating median fluorescence intensity values for each transcript.
27. The method according to claim 26, wherein the expression levels of non-centroid genes are determined by: applying an algorithm to said measured expression level of the selected centroid genes of Table 3 in step (a), wherein the algorithm facilitates the calculation of the level of the non-centroid transcripts that is not measured.
28. The method according to claim 27, wherein said algorithm involves a dependency matrix.
29. The method according to claim 27, wherein the expression levels of non-centroid genes are determined by: applying an algorithm to said plurality of measurements, wherein the algorithm facilitates the calculation of the level of the non-centroid transcripts that is not measured.
30. The method according to claim 1, wherein said measured transcripts are from approximately 700 selected centroid genes set forth in Table 3.
31. The method according to claim 30, wherein the expression levels of non-centroid genes are determined by: applying an algorithm to said measured expression level of the selected centroid genes of Table 3 in step (a), wherein the algorithm facilitates the calculation of the level of the non-centroid transcripts that are not measured transcripts within said second population, and the measured.
32. A method according to claim 31, wherein said algorithm involves a dependency matrix.
33. The method according to claim 30, wherein the method further comprises determining similarity between said determined transcriptome-wide expression profile and expression profiles of diseased and normal cells or tissues, to further identify said biological sample as diseased or as healthy.
34. A method according to claim 30, wherein said transcriptome-wide expression profile provides a functional readout of the action of a perturbagen.
35. A method according to claim 30, wherein said biological sample comprises cultured human cells treated with a plurality of perturbagens, and said method steps include repeatedly performing the method with different biological samples to obtain a plurality of transcriptome-wide expression profiles, and populating a database with the plurality of transcriptome-wide gene-expression profiles.
36. A method according to claim 30, wherein said method further comprises measuring levels of substantially invariant transcripts.
37. A method according to claim 36, wherein said measured levels are normalized with respect to said levels of said substantially invariant transcripts.
38. The method of claim 30, wherein, said measuring includes oligonucleotide probes which detect at least RNA or cDNA transcripts.
39. The method of claim 1, wherein said measured transcripts consist of 1000 different sample transcripts that are the 1000 centroid transcripts set forth in Table 3.
40. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring includes amplifying said measured sample transcripts.
41. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring includes oligonucleotide probes which detect RNA or cDNA transcripts.
42. The method of claim 1, wherein the dataset is stored in a database, is displayed in a format for interpretation, is transmitted to a computer, or is used to generate a report.
43. A method for making a transcriptome-wide expression profile of a biological sample said method comprising: a) measuring simultaneously the expression levels of a selected group approximately 500 to approximately 1000 centroid genes set forth in Table 3, wherein the measuring comprises detecting the measured transcripts using ligation-mediated amplification, optically-addressed and barcoded microspheres, and flow cytometry; b) determining the expression levels of unmeasured non-centroid genes and unmeasured non-selected centroid genes from the measured expression levels obtain in step (a); c) combining the results of steps (a) and (b) to produce a transcriptome-wide expression profile; and d) providing the transcriptome-wide expression profile as output data, wherein the biological sample comprises a plurality of transcripts of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts, and wherein the transcriptome consists of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein, said measuring includes oligonucleotide probes which detect at least RNA or cDNA transcripts.
45. A method for making a transcriptome-wide expression profile of a biological sample without having to measure all the transcripts in the biological sample, said method comprising: (a) measuring simultaneously the expression levels of a selected group of approximately 500 to approximately 1000 selected centroid genes set forth in Table 3, wherein the measuring comprises contacting the sample with at least one probe, (b) measuring the expression levels of a set of substantially invariant genes in said biological sample, (c) normalizing said measured expression levels of the selected centroid genes with respect to said expression levels of said substantially invariant genes, (d) determining the expression levels of unmeasured non-centroid genes and unmeasured non-selected centroid genes from the measured expression levels obtain in step (c); (e) combining the results of steps (c) and (d) to produce a transcriptome-wide expression profile; and (f) providing the transcriptome-wide expression profile as a dataset, wherein the biological sample comprises a plurality of transcripts consisting essentially of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts, and wherein the transcriptome consists of centroid transcripts and non-centroid transcripts.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein the set of substantially invariant genes measured is between 10 and 50 invariant genes.
47. The method of claim 45, wherein the set of substantially invariant genes measured is between 14 and 98 invariant genes.
48. The method of claim 45, wherein 80 invariant genes are measured.
49. The method of claim 45, wherein the set of substantially invariant genes are for quality control.
</claims>
</document>
