<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F19/12,G06F19/18,G06F19/20,G06N5/04,G16B20/00,G16B25/00,G16B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALVAREZ, MARIANO JAVIER
CALIFANO, ANDREA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58188721
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Virtual inference of protein activity by regulon enrichment analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for determining regulon enrichment in gene expression signatures are disclosed herein. An example method can include obtaining a set of transcriptional targets of a regulon. The method can include obtaining a gene expression signature by comparing a gene expression profile of a test sample to gene expression profiles of a plurality of samples representing control phenotypes. The method can include calculating a regulon enrichment score for each regulon in the gene expression signature. The method can including determining whether a number of control samples in the control phenotypes is above a predetermined threshold to support evaluation of statistical significance using permutation analysis. The method can include, in response to determining that the number of control samples is above the predetermined threshold, calculating a significance value by comparing each regulon enrichment score to a null model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining targeted therapy using an individual subject's tissue sample, comprising: identifying a cell or tissue sample from an individual subject having a disease or disorder; quantifying a protein activity of each of a plurality of regulator proteins (RP) in the individual subject's sample to provide a subject sample-specific RP activity signature comprising a plurality of activated and/or deactivated RPs characteristic of the disease or disorder, wherein quantifying the protein activity of each RP comprises computationally inferring each RP activity of the individual subject's sample based, at least in part, on measured expression levels of a plurality of transcriptional targets (regulon), for the individual subject's sample and for a plurality of samples representing a control phenotype, in the context of a tissue-specific regulatory model; determining a targeted therapy for the subject, based on a ranking of the activated and/or deactivated RPs of the sample specific RP activity signature of the individual subject's sample; and validating the targeted therapy using an in vivo model.
2. The method of claim 1; wherein computationally inferring each RP activity of the individual subject's sample based, at least in part, on the measured expression levels of the plurality of transcriptional targets (regulon) comprises using a comparison method that generates a quantitative measurement of difference between the test sample and the control samples.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the comparison method can include one or more of a fold change, a Student's t-test, and Mann-Whitney U test analysis.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein quantifying the protein activity of each RP comprises: calculating a regulon enrichment score for each regulon in the subject sample-specific RP activity signature; determining whether the number of control samples in the control phenotype is above a predetermined threshold to support evaluation of statistical significance using permutation analysis; and in response to determining that the number of control samples is above the predetermined threshold, calculating a significance value by comparing each regulon enrichment score to a null model.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the significance includes one or more of a P value and a normalized enrichment score.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the null model is generated by randomly permuting the control samples for a preset number of iterations.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein in response to determining that the number of control samples is below the predetermined threshold, calculating the significance value by performing permutation of the genes in at least one or more control gene expression signatures and providing an analytic approximation of the gene expression signatures.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein the subject sample-specific RP activity signature is obtained by comparing the expression levels of each regulon in the individual subject's test sample against the control samples.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein the enrichment value of each regulon in the subject sample-specific RP activity signature is calculated using an analytic rank-based enrichment analysis configured to determine whether a shift in the positions of each regulon gene occurs when each regulon gene is projected on a corresponding rank-sorted gene expression signature.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the analytic rank-based enrichment analysis further comprises: (a) calculating a first regulon enrichment score by using a one-tail approach based on an absolute value of the gene expression signature; (b) calculating a second regulon enrichment score by using a two-tail approach; (c) generating the regulon enrichment score by combining the first and the second regulon enrichment scores; (d) determining a weighting of the first and the second regulon enrichment scores in the regulon enrichment score based on an estimated mode of regulation using a three-tail approach; and (e) calculating a statistical significance for the regulon enrichment score by comparison to the null model.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining a contribution of each target gene from a given regulon to the regulon enrichment score based on at least one or more of a regulator-target gene interaction confidence, direction of regulation, and pleotropic correction.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the first and the second regulon enrichment scores are calculated for the given regulon.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the two-tail approach further comprises inverting positions of genes whose expression can be repressed by a regulator in the gene expression signature before determining the second regulon enrichment score.
14. A method for determining a targeted therapy using an individual subject's tissue sample comprising: identifying a cell or tissue sample from an individual subject having a disease or disorder; obtaining a gene expression signature by comparing the test sample to a plurality of samples representing a distinctive or control phenotype; calculating, in the context of a tissue-specific regulatory model, a regulon enrichment score of each regulon in the gene expression signature by combining a first regulon enrichment score calculated using a one-tail approach and a second regulon enrichment score calculated using a two-tail approach; calculating a significance value by comparing each regulon enrichment score to a null model to provide a subject sample-specific regulatory protein (RP) activity signature; and determining a targeted therapy for the subject, based on a ranking of the activated and/or deactivated RPs of the sample specific RP activity signature of the individual subject's sample.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first regulon enrichment score is calculated based on an absolute value of the gene expression signature.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the significance value is used to perform an assessment of regulatory protein (RP) activity from the gene expression data.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the significance value is used to identify a mechanism of action of at least one of a small molecule, antibody, and a perturbagen.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the significance value is used to evaluate the functional relevance of genetic alterations in regulatory proteins across different samples.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the subject's sample comprises a tumor, and wherein the significance value is used to identify tumors with aberrant activity of druggable oncoproteins having a lack of mutations.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising: determining a differential activity for the druggable oncoproteins; assigning a statistical significance value to the differential activity by comparing a specific sample against a distribution of all available samples; and identifying druggable proteins that are aberrantly activated in the tumor by prioritizing each druggable protein of the plurality of druggable proteins with a statistically significant aberrant expression on an individual patient basis using a predefined significance threshold as potentially relevant pharmacological targets for that specific patient.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein assigning the statistical significance value comprises calculating a sample gene expression signature by comparing an expression level of each gene against the distribution of expression across all profiled samples with a same malignancy.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein assigning the statistical significance value comprises determining a statistical significance for an enrichment score of each regulon on an individual sample gene expression signature by calculating a probability of finding an equal or higher enrichment when the genes in the regulon are selected uniformly at random from all profiled genes.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the prioritizing of each druggable protein of the plurality of druggable proteins comprises using one or more of the following criteria: an affinity of a specific compound for a specific target oncoprotein, a p-value of an aberrant oncoprotein differential activity against all tumors in the subtype, a p-value of the aberrant oncoprotein differential activity against all tumors across all subtypes, a toxicity of the druggable protein, whether the druggable protein is FDA approved, whether the druggable protein is approved for a specific tumor subtype, and whether literature or clinical trial results exist indicating activity for the specific drug in the specific tumor subtype.
</claims>
</document>
