<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06Q30/06,G06T11/60,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZEEKIT ONLINE SHOPPING
ZEEKIT ONLINE SHOPPING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZIMMERMAN, ISRAEL, HARRY
WIESEL, YAEL
KRISTAL, ALON
APPLEBOIM, NIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61159279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing user selectable product images and facilitating visualization-assisted virtual dressing
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for combining first and second images respectively depicting first and second subject matter to facilitate virtual presentation. A first image depicting the first subject matter may be received digital form. A second image depicting the second subject matter may also be received digital form. The second image may be image-processed in various ways to prepare the second subject matter for virtual presentation with the first subject matter. A composite image may be generated that depicts the second subject matter overlayed onto the first subject matter. The composite image may be caused to be displayed in a virtual presentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a first image depicting first subject matter in digital form; receiving a second image depicting second subject matter in digital form; performing one or more image processing operations on said second image, said one or more image processing operations being selected from the group consisting of: (1) shape-estimation and shape in-painting, said shape-estimation comprising interpolating shape for hidden areas of said second subject matter that are not visible in said second image, and said shape in-painting comprising filling in said hidden areas of said second subject matter in said second image that were interpolated by said shape-estimation; (2) perspective and shape correction, said perspective and shape correction comprising one or both of (a) adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image, or (b) adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image; (3) features and classification processing, said features and classification processing comprising extracting second subject matter characteristics and points-of-interest from said second image and classifying said second subject matter based on said characteristics and points-of-interest; (4) second subject matter extraction, said second subject matter extraction comprising generating a second subject matter mask in which one or more portions of said second image is removed, added, completed or modified; (5) adding gravity effects, said adding gravity effects comprising simulating an effect of gravity on one or more portions of said second subject matter by modifying said second image so that said one or more portions of said second subject matter appear to be dropping down due to gravity; and (6) unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and said second image; generating a composite image that depicts said second subject matter overlayed onto said first subject matter; and causing said composite image to be displayed as a virtual presentation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said shape-estimation and shape in-painting.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said features and classification processing.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said second subject matter extraction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said adding gravity effects.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and said second image.
9. A system, comprising: one or more processors operably coupled to one or more memory devices; program instructions stored in said memory and executable by said one or more processors to perform operations, said operations comprising: receiving a first image first subject matter in digital form; receiving a second image depicting second subject matter in digital form; performing one or more image processing operations on said second image, said one or more image processing operations being selected from the group consisting of: (1) shape-estimation and shape in-painting, said shape-estimation comprising interpolating shape for hidden areas of said second subject matter that are not visible in said second image, and said shape in-painting comprising filling in said hidden areas of said second subject matter in said second image that were interpolated by said shape-estimation; (2) perspective and shape correction, said perspective and shape correction comprising one or both of (a) adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image, or (b) adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image; (3) features and classification processing, said features and classification processing comprising extracting second subject matter characteristics and points-of-interest from said second image and classifying said second subject matter based on said second subject matter characteristics and points-of-interest; (4) second subject matter extraction, said second subject matter extraction comprising generating a second subject matter mask in which one or more portions of said second image are removed, added, completed or modified; (5) adding gravity effects, said adding gravity effects comprising simulating an effect of gravity on one or more portions of said second subject matter by modifying said second image so that said one or more portions of said second subject matter appear to be dropping down due to gravity; and (6) unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and said second image; generating a composite image that depicts said second subject matter overlayed onto said first subject matter; and causing said composite anchor image to be displayed as a virtual presentation.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said shape-estimation and shape in-painting.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said features and classification processing.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said second subject matter extraction.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said adding gravity effects.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and second image.
17. A computer program product, comprising: one or more non-transitory data storage media; program instructions stored on said data storage media and executable by one or more processors to perform operations, said operations comprising: receiving a first image depicting first subject matter in digital form; receiving a second image depicting second subject matter in digital form; performing one or more image processing operations on said second image, said one or more image processing operations being selected from the group consisting of: (1) shape-estimation and shape in-painting, said shape-estimation comprising interpolating shape for hidden areas of said second subject matter that are not visible in said second image, and said shape in-painting comprising filling in said hidden areas of said second subject matter in said second image that were interpolated by said shape-estimation; (2) perspective and shape correction, said perspective and shape correction comprising one or both of (a) adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image, or (b) adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image; (3) features and classification processing, said features and classification processing comprising extracting second subject matter characteristics and points-of-interest from said second image and classifying said second subject matter based on said second subject matter characteristics and points-of-interest; (4) second subject matter extraction, said second subject matter extraction comprising generating a second subject matter mask in which one or more portions of said second image are removed, added, completed or modified; (5) adding gravity effects, said adding gravity effects comprising simulating an effect of gravity on one or more portions of said second subject matter by modifying said second image so that said one or more portions of said second subject matter appear to be dropping down due to gravity; and (6) unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and said second image; generating a composite image that depicts said second subject matter overlayed onto said first subject matter; and causing said composite image to be displayed as a virtual presentation.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said shape-estimation and shape in-painting.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding, reducing, creating or modifying wrinkle effects in said second image.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said perspective and shape correction that includes said adding 3D effects in said second image by modifying an angular perspective and shape to change non-curved contour lines to curved contour lines in said second image.
21. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said features and classification processing.
22. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said second subject matter extraction.
23. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said adding gravity effects.
24. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein said one or more image processing operations include said unifying a blur level, lighting level and noise level of said first image and said second image.
</claims>
</document>
