<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/38,G06F17/27,G06F40/279,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
NI, TACHEN CHESTER
LUNDIN, JESSICA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62063624
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent meeting classifier
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and technologies for using an intelligent meeting classifier to assess and enhance a work-related productivity are described. In at least some embodiments, a system includes a processing component operatively coupled to a memory; a productivity analyzer configured to perform operations including classifying one or more calendar events based at least partially on calendar data associated with one or more users; assessing one or more productivity metrics based at least partially on one or more calendar event classifications; determining one or more situation-enhancing operations based on the assessed one or more productivity metrics; and performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for assessing and enhancing work-related productivity, comprising: a processing component operatively coupled to a memory; a productivity analyzer at least partially disposed in the memory, the productivity analyzer including one or more instructions that when executed by the processing component perform operations including: classifying one or more calendar events based at least partially on calendar data associated with one or more users by: analyzing a textual content associated with a calendar event to determine one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event, determining a subset of possible tags associated with the calendar event based on the one or more ngrams, determining one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event, assigning a tag to the calendar event from the subset of possible tags based on the one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event, and classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event; assessing one or more productivity metrics based at least partially on one or more calendar event classifications; determining one or more situation-enhancing operations based on the assessed one or more productivity metrics; and performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations, wherein performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations includes disabling or limiting one or more functionalities of an application used by at least one attendee of the calendar event.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event comprises: analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams, including one or more skip-grams, associated with the textual content of the calendar event.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event comprises: analyzing a subject heading associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the subject heading of the calendar event.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event comprises: analyzing the textual content including at least one of an event body or a metadata associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more additional aspects include at least one of a number of attendees or an identity of attendees associated with the calendar event.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more additional aspects include at least one of a time of calendar event or a duration associated with the calendar event.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more additional aspects include at least one of a location or a change of location of the at least one attendee during a time of the calendar event.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event comprises: classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on a supplemental information associated with the calendar event.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on the supplemental information associated with the calendar event comprises: classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on the supplemental information associated with the calendar event, the supplemental information associated with the calendar event including at least one item of biometric data associated with the at least one attendee during a time of the calendar event.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on the supplemental information associated with the calendar event comprises: classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on the supplemental information associated with the calendar event, the supplemental information associated with the calendar event including at least one of a location or a change of location of the at least one attendee during a time of the calendar event.
11. A method for assessing and enhancing a work-related productivity using one or more processing components of a computing device, the method comprising: analyzing a textual content associated with a calendar event to determine one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event; determining a subset of possible tags associated with the calendar event based on the one or more ngrams; determining one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event; assigning a tag to the calendar event from the subset of possible tags based on the one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event; classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event; assessing one or more productivity metrics based at least partially on the one or more calendar event classifications; determining one or more situation-enhancing operations based on the assessed one or more productivity metrics; and performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations, wherein performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations includes disabling or limiting one or more functionalities of an application used by at least one attendee of the calendar event.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the textual content associated with the calendar event comprises: at least one of a subject heading, an event body, or a metadata associated with the calendar event.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event comprises: analyzing the textual content associated with the calendar event to determine the one or more ngrams, including one or more skip-grams, associated with the textual content of the calendar event.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event comprises: classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on a supplemental information associated with the calendar event, the supplemental information associated with the calendar event including at least one item of biometric data associated with the at least one attendee during a time of the calendar event, a location, or a change of location of the at least one attendee during the time of the calendar event.
15. A system for assessing and enhancing work-related productivity, comprising: circuitry for analyzing a textual content associated with a calendar event to determine one or more ngrams associated with the textual content of the calendar event; circuitry for determining a subset of possible tags associated with the calendar event based on the one or more ngrams; circuitry for determining one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event; circuitry for assigning a tag to the calendar event from the subset of possible tags based on the one or more additional aspects associated with the calendar event; circuitry for classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event; circuitry for assessing one or more productivity metrics based at least partially on one or more calendar event classifications; circuitry for determining one or more situation-enhancing operations based on the assessed one or more productivity metrics; and circuitry for performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations, wherein performing the one or more situation-enhancing operations includes disabling or limiting one or more functionalities of an application used by at least one attendee of the calendar event.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the circuitry for classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag associated with the calendar event comprises: circuitry for classifying the calendar event based at least partially on the tag and at least partially on a supplemental information associated with the calendar event, the supplemental information associated with the calendar event including at least one item of biometric data associated with the at least one attendee during a time of the calendar event, a location, or a change of location of the at least one attendee during the time of the calendar event.
</claims>
</document>
