<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16C20/10,G16C20/30,G16C20/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU, DONGHUI
PAPPAS, IRAKLIS
KIM, DONG HYUN
LUCZYNSKI, BARTOSZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68979698
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for preparing a product
</title>

<abstract>
A system, apparatus, and/or method is disclosed for producing a personal care product. An identity of a characteristic of interest and identities of sample chemical compositions are received. For each of the sample chemical compositions, a value of a property is received. For only each of the sample chemical compositions having the characteristic of interest, a value of a property of the sample chemical composition and one of (1) the identity of the sample chemical composition or (2) the values of the chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the sample chemical composition are input into a model. The value of the property of the considered chemical composition is determined, via the model, based on an identity of the considered chemical composition or values of chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the considered chemical composition. The personal care product having the considered chemical composition is produced.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: (a) receiving an identity of a characteristic of interest; (b) receiving identities of sample chemical compositions, each of the sample chemical compositions comprising ingredients each being associated with a value of a chemoinformatic property of chemoinformatic properties of the sample chemical composition; (c) for each of the sample chemical compositions, receiving a value of a property that is affected by an interaction of at least two of the ingredients of the sample chemical composition; (d) for only each of the sample chemical compositions having the characteristic of interest, inputting, into a model, the value of the property of the sample chemical composition and at least one of (1) the identity of the sample chemical composition or (2) the values of the chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the sample chemical composition; (e) determining, via the model, the value of the property of the considered chemical composition based on at least one of (1) an identity of the considered chemical composition or (2) values of chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the considered chemical composition; and (f) producing a personal care product comprised of the considered chemical composition wherein the property of the considered chemical composition is affected by an interaction of at least two ingredients of the considered chemical composition; and wherein steps (d)-(e) are performed by one or more processors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of interest comprises a function of a chemical composition, the function relating to how one or more ingredients of the chemical composition are used in product form.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the function of the chemical composition comprises an abrasives function, a chelating agents function, a colorant function, an oxidizing agents function, a reducing agents function, or a surfactants function.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the function of the chemical composition relates to at least one of a pellicle cleaning ratio (PCR) or relative dentin abrasivity (RDA).
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of interest comprises a classification of a chemical composition, the classification relating to molecular properties of an ingredient of the chemical composition.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the classification of the chemical composition relates to an alcohols classification, an amino acids classification, an enzymes classification, a fatty acids classification, a ketones classification, or a peptides classification.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the identity of the considered chemical composition comprises identities of the ingredients of the considered chemical composition.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is a machine learning model, the value of the property of the considered chemical composition being determined via rules of the machine learning model.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning model comprises a supervised learning approach.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the value of the property of the considered chemical composition relates to a physiochemical property of the considered chemical composition, the physiochemical property relating to a physical property or a chemical property of the considered chemical composition.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the property of the considered chemical composition is identical to the property of the sample chemical composition.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the value of the property of the considered chemical composition is based on the values of the chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the considered chemical composition and not based on the identity of the considered chemical composition.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein identities of the ingredients of the sample chemical composition and the values of the chemoinformatic properties of the ingredients of the sample chemical composition are stored in a database.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the value of the property of the sample chemical composition is identified via at least one of an experimental measurement of the sample chemical composition or a thermodynamic calculation of the sample chemical composition.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the value of the property of the sample chemical composition is comprised of at least one of a first value identified via an experimental measurement of the sample chemical composition or a second value identified via a thermodynamic calculation.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each of the sample chemical composition and the considered chemical composition, the value of the property relates to at least one of a pH, a rheology, an abrasivity, a chemical a degradation, a phase change, a turbidity, an ingredient solubility, a volatile loss, or a consumer perception.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein, for each of the sample chemical composition and the considered chemical composition, the chemoinformatic property relates to at least one of a qualitative category, a qualitative sensory attribute, a molecular formula, an acid dissociation constant, a solubility product, a structural topology, a functional group count, a chemical fragment count, a hydrophobicity, a partition coefficient, a steric parameter, an association constant, or a hydrophile lipophile balance (HLB).
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the qualitative category comprises at least one of ingredient function or ingredient classification.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the qualitative sensory attribute comprises at least one of scent, taste, or tactile attribute.
20. The method of claim 1, comprising: repeating steps (a)-(d) for a plurality of sample chemical compositions prior to performing step (e).
</claims>
</document>
