<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F21/34,G06K9/00,G07C9/00,G07C9/25,G07C9/28,G08B25/01,G08B7/06,H04B1/3827,H04L29/06,H04L9/32,H04W12/00,H04W12/04,H04W12/06,H04W12/08,H04W4/80,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASSA ABLOY
</assignee>

<inventors>
EINBERG, FREDRIK CARL STEFAN
HOYER, PHILIP
BERG, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55862795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wearable discovery for authentication
</title>

<abstract>
An access control system is described in which a credential may be authenticated and permitted to access a protected resource only after discovery of a second device. Requiring discovery of a second device prior to authentication enhances security by protecting against unauthorized access by an illicit user of a credential.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A credential device for an access control system, comprising: a first communication interface enabling the credential device to communicate with an access control reader; a second communication interface enabling the credential device to communicate with a second device; a first memory comprising a key vault and storing a mobile key, the first memory physically separate from all other memory in the credential device; a second memory containing instructions configured to: enable registration of the second device with the access control system; establish communications with the access control reader; broadcast a search signal via the second communication interface; receive a response to the search signal from the second device, wherein the response comprises a device ID associated with the second device; compare the device ID received in the response with stored registration information; determine that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information; in response to determining that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information, determine that the second device is registered with the access control system; allow the mobile key to be retrieved from the key vault and transmitted to the access control reader via the first communication interface only after determining that the second device is registered with the access control system; and make an access decision based on at least information from or about the access control reader, wherein the information from or about the access control reader comprises at least one of: a serial number, another identification number, a timestamp, a list of authorized credential devices, information corresponding to a public key, information corresponding to a public certificate, and a schedule correlating mobile keys with authorized access times; and a processor configured to execute the instructions stored in the second memory.
2. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the mobile key is only allowed to be retrieved from the key vault after a predetermined requirement relating to the second device is satisfied via the second communication interface, wherein the predetermined requirement relating to the second device is one or more of: the credential device must successfully communicate with the second device; the credential device must successfully authenticate with the second device; the credential device must receive predetermined information from the second device; the credential device must be presently paired or bonded with the second device; biometric information received from the second device must match biometric information obtained from a biometric sensor in the credential device; and biometric information received from the second device must match biometric information stored in the memory of the credential device.
3. The credential device of claim 2, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the credential device to transmit the mobile key to the access control reader only if the predetermined requirement relating to the second device is satisfied within a predetermined period of time after the credential device initiates communications with the access control reader.
4. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the second device is a wearable mobile device.
5. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the second communication interface uses a Bluetooth communication protocol.
6. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the credential device and the second device each comprise operating systems that enable telecommunication functions or features.
7. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the credential device is capable of pairing with the second device.
8. The credential device of claim 1, wherein the key vault prevents access to the mobile key in a default state.
9. A system, comprising: a credential device comprising: a first communication interface for communicating with an access control reader; a second communication interface for communicating with a second device; a first memory comprising a key vault storing a mobile key, the first memory physically separate from all other memory in the credential device; a second memory storing an access control module, the access control module comprising instructions configured to: enable registration of the second device with an access control system; establish communications with the access control reader; broadcast a search signal; receive a response to the search signal from the second device, wherein the response comprises a device ID associated with the second device; compare the device ID received in the response with stored registration information; determine that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information; in response to determining that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information, determine that the second device is registered with the access control system; allow retrieval of the mobile key from the first memory only upon determining that the second device is registered with the access control system; and make an access decision based on at least information from or about the access control reader, information from or about the second device, and the mobile key, wherein the information from or about the access control reader comprises at least one of: a serial number, another identification number, a timestamp, a list of authorized credential devices, information corresponding to a public key, information corresponding to a public certificate, and a schedule correlating mobile keys with authorized access times; a processor for executing the instructions in the access control module.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the information from or about the second device is at least one of: an indication of whether the credential device has successfully authenticated with the second device, the time of the most recent communication between the credential device and the second device, whether the credential device is presently paired or bonded to the second device, whether the credential device was recently paired or bonded to the second device, information identifying the second device, location information, biometric information, information corresponding to a public key, information corresponding to a public certificate, and a timestamp.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions are further configured to compare the information from or about the second device with information stored in the first memory or the second memory.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions are further configured to make an access granted decision only if the information from or about the second device indicates that the second device is within a predetermined proximity to the credential device.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the credential device to transmit the access decision to the access control reader via the first communication interface.
14. A method for use in connection with a credential device, comprising: using a first wireless communication interface to enable communications between the credential device and a reader of an access control system, the credential device comprising a dedicated memory that comprises a key vault in which a mobile key is stored, the dedicated memory physically separate from all other memory in the credential device; using a second wireless communication interface to enable communications between the credential device and a wearable device; enabling registration of the wearable device with the access control system; establishing communications with the reader; broadcasting a search signal via the second wireless communication interface; receiving a response to the search signal from the wearable device, wherein the response comprises a device ID associated with the wearable device; comparing the device ID received in the response with stored registration information; determining that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information; in response to determining that the device ID received in the response substantially matches the stored registration information, determining that the wearable device is registered with the access control system; conditioning retrieval of the mobile key from the dedicated memory and transmission of the mobile key from the credential device to the reader via the first wireless communication interface upon determining that the wearable device is registered with the access control system; and making an access decision based on at least information from or about the access control reader, wherein the information from or about the access control reader comprises at least one of: a serial number, another identification number, a timestamp, a list of authorized credential devices, information corresponding to a public key, information corresponding to a public certificate, and a schedule correlating mobile keys with authorized access times.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the second wireless communication interface comprises at least one of a near field communication interface or a Bluetooth interface.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the wearable device transmits information to the credential device via the second wireless communication interface and wherein the credential device transmits the information received from the wearable device to the reader via the first wireless communication interface.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the reader further comprises memory that further stores instructions for causing the reader to generate one or more wearable device discovery signals and to transmit the one or more wearable device discovery signals to the wearable device via the credential device.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: using a third wireless communication interface to enable communications between the wearable device and the reader.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the mobile key is only allowed to be retrieved from the key vault after a predetermined requirement relating to the wearable device is satisfied via the second wireless communication interface, wherein the predetermined requirement comprises determining that the wearable device and the credential device are paired to one another and are capable of communicating information to one another via the second wireless communication interface.
</claims>
</document>
