<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,B60W30/095,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABRAHAMS, SAMUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849645
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-headed recurrent neural network (RNN) for multi-class trajectory predictions
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are various technologies that pertain to controlling an AV based upon a neural-network-generated prediction of a trajectory (e.g., one or more future positions) of an object in the driving environment of the AV. With more specificity, described herein are various technologies pertaining to generating predictions of a trajectory of an object by way of a multi-headed recurrent neural network (RNN). The multi-headed RNN is configured to output probability data that indicates a probability of an object moving to a position at a future point in time when the object has each of a plurality of different object characteristics. The multi-headed RNN is further configured to use state information of the multi-headed RNN from prior predictions of a trajectory of an object in connection with generating a future prediction of a trajectory of the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous vehicle (AV), comprising: a plurality of sensor systems that generate a plurality of sensor signals, the plurality of sensor signals indicative of an object in a driving environment of the AV; and a computing system that is in communication with the plurality of sensor systems, wherein the computing system comprises: a processor; and memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: generating, based upon the sensor signals, a position solution that is indicative of a first position of the object at a first time; outputting probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to a second position at a second time by way of a multi-headed recurrent neural network (RNN), wherein the position solution is provided as input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting the probability data, and wherein the multi-headed RNN comprises: a first head, the first head configured to output first probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on a first characteristic of the object; and a second head, the second head configured to output second probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on a second characteristic of the object, the probability data comprising the first probability data and the second probability data; and controlling at least one of a propulsion system, a braking system, or a steering system of the AV based upon the probability data.
2. The AV of claim 1, wherein the multi-headed RNN further comprises a plurality of shared layers wherein the first head and the second head receive a same output state from the shared layers.
3. The AV of claim 2, the acts further comprising outputting third probability data by way of the multi-headed RNN, the third probability data indicative of a probability of the object moving to a third position at a third time, wherein the output state of the shared layers is provided as input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting the third probability data.
4. The AV of claim 2, wherein the plurality of shared layers are trained on first training data that includes data of a first type and data of a second type.
5. The AV of claim 4, wherein the first head of the multi-headed RNN is trained on second training data that includes only data of the first type.
6. The AV of claim 5, wherein the second head of the multi-headed RNN is trained on third training data that includes only data of the second type.
7. The AV of claim 1, wherein the first head comprises a first plurality of layers and the second head comprises a second plurality of layers.
8. The AV of claim 1, wherein an input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting the probability data further comprises at least one of: a velocity of the object; a probability of the object being of a first object type; labeled data pertaining to the driving environment; and data indicative of other objects in the driving environment of the AV.
9. The AV of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic is a first object type and the second characteristic is a second object type.
10. The AV of claim 9, wherein the first object type indicates that the object is one of: a car; a motorcycle a cyclist; or a pedestrian.
11. The AV of claim 1, wherein the first head comprises a first plurality of hidden layers and a first output layer, and wherein the second head comprises a second plurality of hidden layers and a second output layer.
12. The AV of claim 11, wherein the first hidden layers of the first head do not receive input from the second hidden layers of the second head, and wherein the second hidden layers of the second head do not receive input from the first hidden layers of the first head.
13. The AV of claim 1, wherein the probability data comprises data indicative of a two-dimensional probability distribution, the two-dimensional probability distribution indicating a respective probability of the AV moving to each of a plurality of points in the driving environment at the second time.
14. A method for controlling an autonomous vehicle (AV), the method comprising: generating a plurality of sensor signals by way of a plurality of sensor systems on the AV, the plurality of sensor signals indicative of an object in a driving environment of the AV generating, based upon the sensor signals, a position solution that is indicative of a first position of the object at a first time; outputting probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to a second position at a second time by way of a multi-headed recurrent neural network (RNN), wherein the position solution is provided as input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting the probability data, and wherein the multi-headed RNN comprises: a first head, the first head configured to output first probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on a first characteristic of the object; and a second head, the second head configured to output second probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on a second characteristic of the object, the probability data comprising the first probability data and the second probability data; and controlling at least one of a propulsion system, a braking system, or a steering system of the AV based upon the probability data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first probability data comprises third probability data and fourth probability data, wherein the third probability data is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on the first characteristic of the object and a third characteristic of the object, and wherein the fourth probability data is indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time based on the first characteristic of the object and a fourth characteristic of the object.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the third characteristic of the object is the object being in motion, and wherein the fourth characteristic of the object is the object being stopped.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the multi-headed RNN further comprises a shared layer that outputs a shared state, and wherein the first head outputs the first probability data based upon the shared state and the second head outputs the second probability data based upon the shared state.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising providing the shared state as input to an input layer of the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting third probability data indicative of a probability of the object moving to a third location at a third time.
19. An autonomous vehicle (AV), comprising: a plurality of sensor systems that generate a plurality of sensor signals, the plurality of sensor signals indicative of an object in a driving environment of the AV; and a computing system that is in communication with the plurality of sensor systems, wherein the computing system comprises: a processor; and memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: generating, based upon the sensor signals, a position solution that is indicative of a first position of the object at a first time; outputting probability data that is indicative of a probability of the object moving to a second position at a second time by way of a multi-headed recurrent neural network (RNN), wherein the position solution is provided as input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting the probability data, and wherein the multi-headed RNN comprises: a plurality of shared layers, the shared layers including a terminal layer that outputs a shared state; a first head that receives the shared state from the terminal layer, the first head configured to output first probability data based upon the shared state, the first probability data indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position when the object has a first characteristic; and a second head that receives the shared state from the terminal layer, the second head configured to output second probability data based upon the share state, the second probability data indicative of a probability of the object moving to the second position at the second time when the object has the second characteristic, the probability data comprising the first probability data and the second probability data; and controlling at least one of a propulsion system, a braking system, or a steering system of the AV based upon the probability data.
20. The AV of claim 19, the acts further comprising providing the shared state as input to the multi-headed RNN in connection with outputting third probability data by way of the multi-headed RNN, the third probability data indicative of a probability of the object moving to a third location at a third time.
</claims>
</document>
