<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/34,G06F119/02,G06F8/60,G06F8/65,G06F9/50,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEPARD, MARC
NITTA, BRYSTON MITSUO
KLIMASCHEWSKI, MARC-ANDREA
DANG, HUNG MINH
LIANG, CHEN
NICA, OANA SILVIA
SHASTRI, RAMASUBRAMANIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63790664
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Resource deployment using device analytics
</title>

<abstract>
Examples described herein generally relate to device analytics. Specifically, the present disclosure provides resource deployment at an organization including one or more devices. The present disclosure provides for receiving telemetry data from the one or more devices associated with the organization. The present disclosure further provides for generating a set of deployment rings for the deployment of the software resource at the one or more devices of the organization. Additionally, the present disclosure provides for deploying the software resource within the organization based on the set of deployment rings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of resource deployment at an organization including one or more devices, comprising: receiving telemetry data from one or more devices of a first device set; determining device strata including a first device stratum and a second device stratum based on the telemetry data, each device stratum defining one or more device groups within the first device set; mapping each of the first device stratum and the second device stratum to external strata associated with additional telemetry data external to the first device set; identifying a software resource deployed in the external strata, wherein the deployment of the software resource is associated with promotion criteria; determining, based at least on a set of deployment result metrics, a priority level for each of the external strata; generating, based on the priority level for each of the external strata, at least one deployment ring for the deployment of the software resource at the one or more devices of the first device set; and deploying, based on the at least one deployment ring, the software resource within the first device set based on the at least one deployment ring.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating promotion criteria for each deployment ring in the at least one deployment ring based on the telemetry data, wherein the promotion criteria, when satisfied, permits deployment of the software resource from one deployment ring to another deployment ring of the at least one deployment ring.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the promotion criteria includes at least one of a set of measurements representing one or more operating characteristics of the one or more devices or a metric set associated with the set of measurements and representing performance data of the one or more devices.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the promotion criteria for each deployment ring includes a shared set of measurements and the metric set in addition to a ring-specific set of measurements and the metric set.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the set of measurements includes at least one of: an install success rate value, a post-install reliability value, a performance measurement value, or a user sentiment indication.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the metric set includes at least one of a trailing mean duration value or a standard deviation value.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one deployment ring includes a first deployment ring and a second deployment ring, and wherein deploying the software resource within the first device set includes: determining whether one or more devices within the first deployment ring satisfy the promotion criteria; in accordance with a determination that the one or more devices within the first deployment ring do not satisfy the promotion criteria, providing an indication representing an anomaly to a remote computing device; and in accordance with a determination that the one or more devices within the first deployment ring satisfy the promotion criteria, deploying the software resource to the second deployment ring.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first deployment ring includes a subset of devices from the first device stratum, and the second deployment ring includes a subset of devices from the second device stratum.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein the promotion criteria and the at least one of deployment ring are generated automatically based on the telemetry data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the at least one deployment ring includes determining, based on at least one of a function of a number of device strata or a number of devices within each device stratum, a number of deployment rings.
11. An apparatus for resource deployment at an organization including one or more devices, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor in communication with the memory, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: receive telemetry data from the one or more devices associated with the organization; determine device strata including a first stratum device set and a second stratum device set based on the telemetry data, each device stratum set defining one or more device groups within the organization; map each of the first stratum device set and the second stratum device set to one or more external stratum device sets from external strata associated with additional telemetry data external to the organization; identify the one or more external stratum device sets from the external strata that have deployed a software resource, wherein the deployment of the software resource is associated with promotion criteria; determine a priority level for each of the one or more external stratum device sets based at least on a set of deployment result metrics; generate a set of deployment rings for the deployment of the software resource at the one or more devices of the organization based on the priority level for each of the external stratum device sets; and deploy the software resource within the organization based on the set of deployment rings.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising generating promotion criteria for each deployment ring in the set of deployment rings based on the telemetry data, wherein the promotion criteria, when satisfied, permits deployment of the software resource from one deployment ring to another deployment rings of the set of deployment rings.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the promotion criteria includes at least one of a set of measurements representing one or more operating characteristics of the one or more devices or a metric set associated with the set of measurements and representing performance data of the one or more devices.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the promotion criteria for each deployment rings includes a shared set of measurements and the metric set in addition to a ring-specific set of measurements and the metric set.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the set of measurements includes at least one of: an install success rate value, a post-install reliability value, a performance measurement value, or a user sentiment indication.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the metric set includes at least one of a trailing mean duration value or a standard deviation value.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the set of deployment rings include a first deployment ring and a second deployment ring, and wherein deploying the software resource within the organization includes: determining whether one or more devices within the first deployment ring satisfy the promotion criteria; in accordance with a determination that the one or more devices within the first deployment ring do not satisfy the promotion criteria, providing an indication representing an anomaly to a remote computing device; and in accordance with a determination that the one or more devices within the first deployment ring satisfy the promotion criteria, deploying the software resource to the second deployment ring.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the first deployment ring includes a subset of devices from the first stratum device set, and the second deployment ring includes a subset of devices from the second stratum device set.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein generating a set of deployment rings includes determining a number of deployment rings based on at least one of a function of a number of stratum device sets within the device strata or a number of devices within each stratum device set.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a server device for resource deployment at an organization including one or more devices, comprising at least one instruction for causing the server device to: receive telemetry data from the one or more devices associated with the organization; determine device strata including a first stratum device set and a second stratum device set based on the telemetry data, each device stratum set defining one or more device groups within the organization; map each of the first stratum device set and the second stratum device set to one or more external stratum device sets from external strata associated with additional telemetry data external to the organization; identify the one or more external stratum device sets from the external strata that have deployed a software resource, wherein the deployment of the software resource is associated with promotion criteria; determine a priority level for each of the one or more external stratum device sets based at least on a set of deployment result metrics; generate a set of deployment rings for the deployment of the software resource at the one or more devices of the organization based on the priority level for each of the external stratum device sets; and deploy the software resource within the organization based on the set of deployment rings.
</claims>
</document>
