<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/08,G10L15/22,G10L17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOPATKA, KUBA
BOCKLET, TOBIAS
OSSOWSKI, JACEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65275442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system of audio false keyphrase rejection using speaker recognition
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques related to a method and system of audio false keyphrase rejection using speaker recognition are described herein. Such techniques use speaker recognition of a computer originated voice to omit actions triggered when a keyphrase is present in captured audio and omitted when speech of the captured audio was spoken by the computer originated voice.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of false keyphrase rejection comprising: receiving a captured audio signal of sound captured from at least one microphone; detecting whether or not the captured audio signal includes speech spoken by at least one computer originated voice; and omitting an action to be triggered when one or more keyphrases are present in the captured audio signal, and omitting the action at least partly depending on whether the at least one computer originated voice was recognized in the captured audio signal.
2. The method of claim 1 comprising analyzing the captured audio signal to detect one or more keyphrases; and analyzing the portions of the captured audio signal with keyphrases rather than the non-keyphrase parts of the captured audio signal to determine whether or not the one or more keyphrases were spoken by the computer originated voice.
3. The method of claim 1 comprising analyzing the captured audio signal to recognize the computer originated voice as the speaker of the captured audio signal regardless of whether one or more keyphrases are spoken in the speech; and omitting the action because the computer originated voice is recognized as the speaker of the speech.
4. The method of claim 1 comprising ignoring the output of a keyphrase detector analyzing the captured audio signal because the computer originated voice is recognized as the speaker of the captured audio signal.
5. The method of claim 1 comprising disabling a keyphrase detector so that the keyphrase detector does not analyze a captured audio signal spoken by a recognized one of the at least one computer originated voices.
6. The method of claim 1 comprising analyzing a loopback reference signal to determine a reference score indicating whether the loopback signal is likely to include one or more keyphrases; and generating a confidence score factoring both the reference score and a speaker score indicating a likelihood that the captured audio signal was spoken by the at least one computer originated voice.
7. The method of claim 1 comprising analyzing a loopback reference signal to determine a reference score indicating whether the loopback signal is likely to include one or more keyphrases; and at least one of: (a) determining to omit the action because the captured audio signal was spoken by the at least one computer originated voice after analysis of the loopback reference signal did not find a keyphrase in the loopback reference signal, and (b) determining to omit the action when the loopback reference signal is found to have the one or more keyphrases after it was determined the computer originated voice was likely not the speaker of the captured audio signal.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the detecting comprises pattern matching between a loopback reference signal and the captured audio signal using speaker recognition feature representations to perform the matching.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the captured audio signal comprises at least one non-local computer originated voice audibly emitted from at least one non-local audio device separate from a current audio device having microphones to form the captured audio signal, wherein the non-local computer originated voice is recognizable by speaker recognition initiated at the current device.
10. The method of claim 1 comprising enrolling the at least one computer originated voice in at least one speaker model comprising emitting the computer originated voice speaking speech over one or more loudspeakers within a hearing range of a computing device that processes audio data to add the at least one computer originated voice to the at least one speaker model.
11. The method of claim 1 comprising permitting a user to calibrate the keyphrase rejection comprising receiving sound of the one or more keyphrases on a computing device; and processing the sound to enroll feature representations generated by using the sound and enrolling the feature representations on a speaker model.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the action is waking an automatic speech recognition application.
13. An audio processing device comprising: at least one microphone; a capture path receiving captured audio signals of sound captured by the at least one microphone; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the capture path; a speaker recognition unit operated by detecting whether or not the captured audio signal includes speech spoken by at least one computer originated voice; and a keyphrase detection unit to be operated by omitting an action to be triggered when one or more keyphrases are present in the captured audio signal, and omitting the action at least partly depending on whether the at least one computer originated voice was recognized in the captured audio signal.
14. The device of claim 13 comprising: a reference loopback path to provide a reference signal of output from the audio device; and a reference keyphrase detection unit to indicate whether the reference signal is likely to include one or more keyphrases.
15. The device of claim 14 wherein the reference keyphrase unit is to provide a reference score to indicate whether the reference signal is likely to include one or more keyphrases; wherein the speaker recognition unit is to generate a speaker score indicating a likelihood that the captured audio signal was spoken by the at least one computer originated voice; and the device comprising a confidence score unit factoring both the reference score and the speaker score to generate a confidence score.
16. The device of a claim 14 comprising at least one weight unit that generates both weights of the reference scores and weights of the speaker scores both to be factored in the confidence score.
17. The device of claim 14 wherein the keyphrase detection unit is to omit the action when the reference keyphrase detection unit detects one or more keyphrases in the reference signal; and the speaker recognition unit is arranged to detect a computer originated voice in the captured audio signal after the reference keyphrase detection unit does not find the one or more keyphrases in the reference signal.
18. The device of claim 14, wherein the keyphrase detection unit is to omit the action when the reference keyphrase detection unit detects one or more keyphrases in the reference signal after the speaker recognition unit does not find the one or more computer originated voices in the captured audio signal.
19. The device of claim 14, where the speaker recognition unit generates speaker recognition feature representations of both the captured audio signal and the reference signal, and the device comprising a pattern matching unit to pattern match between the loopback reference signal and the captured audio signal using the speaker recognition feature representations to perform the matching.
20. At least one non-transitory machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to operate by: receiving a captured audio signal of sound captured from at least one microphone; detecting whether or not the captured audio signal includes speech spoken by at least one computer originated voice; and omitting an action to be triggered when one or more keyphrases are present in the captured audio signal, and omitting the action at least partly depending on whether the at least one computer originated voice was recognized in the captured audio signal.
21. The medium of claim 20 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by pattern matching between a loopback reference signal and the captured audio signal comprising using speaker recognition feature representations of both the reference and captured audio signals to perform the matching.
22. The medium of claim 21 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by performing the pattern matching by using the same speaker models to perform the speaker recognition on both the reference and captured audio signals.
23. The medium of claim 21 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by generating a similarity measure from the pattern matching; and comparing the measure to at least one criteria to form a final determination as to whether the captured audio signal was spoken by the computer originated voice.
24. The medium of claim 21 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by generating a similarity measure from the pattern matching; and using the similarity measure as a weight to determine whether a keyphrase is detected in the captured audio signal.
25. The medium of claim 20 wherein the detecting comprises generating a speaker score; and the instructions cause the computing device to operate by: detecting whether or not one or more keyphrases are in a loopback reference signal of sound output from the same device forming the captured audio signal, the detecting comprising generating a reference score and omitting the action when the one or more keyphrases are found in the loopback reference signal; generating a confidence score by factoring both the reference score and the speaker score; and using the confidence score to decide whether the action should be omitted when the one or more keyphrases were not initially detected in the loopback reference signal by the detecting applied to the loopback reference signal.
</claims>
</document>
