<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/107,A61B5/20,A61B8/00,A61B8/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/50,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRIGSTAD, SIGMUND
TORP, ANDERS HERMAN
PATIL, ABHIJIT VISHWAS
VARNA, SRINIVAS
PANICKER, MAHESH R.
ANNANGI, PAVAN KUMAR V
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61687137
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for measuring a volume of an organ of interest
</title>

<abstract>
In an embodiment of the subject matter described herein a system is provided. The system includes a portable host system having one or more processors and a memory for storing a plurality of applications. The one or more processors configured to execute programmed instructions of a select application by performing one or more operations, which include obtain a set of frames of 2D ultrasound images, develop a prospect model indicating a likelihood that frames within the set include an organ of interest (OOI), identify primary and secondary reference frames from the set of the frames based on the prospect model, determine a characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame, select a candidate shape for the OOI based on the character of interest in the primary reference frame, and adjust the candidate shape based on the secondary reference frames to form a resultant shape for the OOI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining a set of frames of 2D ultrasound images; using one or more processors to: develop a prospect model indicating a likelihood that frames within the set include an organ of interest (OOI), wherein the prospect model comprises a cross correlation between successive frames in the set of frames; identify a primary reference frame and a secondary reference frame from the set of the frames based on the prospect model, wherein the second reference frame was acquired with the ultrasound probe at a different tilt angle than the primary reference frame; determine a characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame; select a candidate shape for the OOI based on the characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame, wherein the candidate shape is a 3D representation of the OOI, and wherein the candidate shape is selected from a plurality of candidate shapes stored in a memory; adjust the candidate shape based on the secondary reference frame to form a resultant shape for the OOI; calculate a volume of the OOI using the resultant shape; and display the volume of the OOI.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identify operation includes identifying, from the set of frames, an ultrasound image that intersects a center of the OOI, the ultrasound image representing the primary reference frame.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the develop operation includes identifying a pixel pattern between adjacent frames in the set of frames and deriving the prospect model based on the pixel pattern.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the develop operation includes identifying regions of interest in adjacent frames in the set of frames, calculating pixel intensity information for the regions of interest, and deriving the prospect model based on the pixel intensity information.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the develop operation includes determining tilt angle information regarding for at least a portion of the set of frames, and deriving the prospect model based on the tilt angle information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of interest represents at least one of a boundary of the OOI or a ratio of dimensions for the OOI.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjust operation includes adjusting at least one of a size or contour of the candidate shape based on characteristic of interest in the secondary reference frame.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the OOI is a bladder, a stomach, a kidney or a liver.
9. A mobile ultrasound imaging system comprising: a portable host system having one or more processors and a memory for storing a plurality of applications that include corresponding programmed instructions, wherein when a select application is activated the one or more processors execute programmed instructions of the select application by performing the following operations: obtain a set of frames of 2D ultrasound images; develop a prospect model indicating a likelihood that frames within the set include an organ of interest (OOI), wherein the prospect model comprises a cross correlation between successive frames in the set of frames; identify a primary reference frame and a secondary reference frame from the set of the frames based on the prospect model, wherein the second reference frame was acquired with the ultrasound probe at a different tilt angle than the primary reference frame; determine a characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame; select a candidate shape for the OOI based on the characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame, wherein the candidate shape is a 3D representation of the OOI, and wherein the candidate shape is selected from a plurality of candidate shapes stored in the memory; adjust the candidate shape based on the secondary reference frame to form a resultant shape for the OOI; calculate a volume of the OOI using the resultant shape; and display the volume of the OOI.
10. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the identify operation includes identifying, from the set of frames, an ultrasound image that intersects a center of the OOI, the ultrasound image representing the primary reference frame.
11. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the develop operation includes identifying a pixel pattern between adjacent frames in the set of frames and deriving the prospect model based on the pixel pattern.
12. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the develop operation includes identifying regions of interest in adjacent frames in the set of frames, calculating pixel intensity information for the regions of interest, and deriving the prospect model based on the pixel intensity information.
13. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the develop operation includes determining tilt angle information regarding for at least a portion of the set of frames, and deriving the prospect model based on the tilt angle information.
14. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the characteristic of interest represents at least one of a boundary of the OOI or a ratio of dimensions for the OOI.
15. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the adjust operation includes adjusting at least one of a size or contour of the candidate shape based on characteristic of interest in the secondary reference frame.
16. A tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium comprising one or more programmed instructions configured to direct one or more processors to: obtain a set of frames of 2D ultrasound images; develop a prospect model indicating a likelihood that frames within the set include an organ of interest (OOI), wherein the prospect model comprises a cross correlation between successive frames in the set of frames; identify a primary reference frame and a secondary reference frame from the set of the frames based on the prospect model, wherein the second reference frame was acquired with the ultrasound probe at a different tilt angle than the primary reference frame; determine a characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame; select a candidate shape for the OOI based on the characteristic of interest in the primary reference frame, wherein the candidate shape is a 3D representation of the OOI, and wherein the candidate shape is selected from a plurality of candidate shapes stored in a memory; adjust the candidate shape based on the secondary reference frame to form a resultant shape for the OOI; calculate a volume of the OOI using the resultant shape; and displaying the volume of the OOI.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the candidate shape is selected from the group consisting of a trapezoidal shape, a cuboid, and an ellipsoid.
18. The mobile ultrasound imaging system of claim 9, wherein the candidate shape is selected from the group consisting of a trapezoidal shape, a cuboid, and an ellipsoid.
</claims>
</document>
