<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/2457,G06F16/2458
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAIN, CHRISTOPHER
SANDERS, ADAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750242
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for dynamic scaling and modification of a rule-based matching and prioritization engine
</title>

<abstract>
A system and related method are provided for dynamically modifying a rule-based matching system. The method comprises using a processor for receiving a plurality of rules that are stored in a matching metadata database in a storage device, and receiving a plurality of entities as inputs. The method further comprises determining a degree of matching between a first entity and a second entity of the plurality of entities, using at least two of the plurality of rules that contribute to the degree of matching. The method then outputs the determined degree of matching to a display device, and dynamically modifies, at run-time, at least one of the plurality of rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for dynamically modifying a rule-based matching system, comprising, using a processor: receiving a plurality of rules that are stored in a database in a storage device; receiving a plurality of entities as inputs; determining a degree of matching between a first entity and a second entity of the plurality of entities, using at least two of the plurality of rules, as a set of match rules, that contribute to the degree of matching, wherein the set of match rules is included in a query executed across a set of data nodes; outputting the determined degree of matching to a display device; dynamically modifying, at run-time, at least one of the set of match rules based on the degree of matching; adjusting the set of data nodes based on the at least one dynamically modified set of match rules; and updating one or more existing matches in the database affected by a respective rule of the at least one of dynamically modified set of match rules and the adjusted set of data nodes.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the degree of matching comprises at least one operation selected from the group consisting of adding and multiplying individual non-zero rule scores for each of the at least two rules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the inputs comprise name-value pairs, and the receiving comprises parsing the name-value pairs.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising scaling the processor by increasing or reducing processing power, in response to a condition selected from the group consisting of a varying number of entities received, and a varying complexity of the plurality of rules used in the determining of the degree of matching.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the inputs are sourced from a combination of external databases, internal systems, and users of the system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein each rule of the plurality of rules comprises a filter having a condition that must be met by the match in order for the rule to produce a non-zero rule score.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each rule of the plurality of rules comprises a plurality of filters, each having a condition that must be met by the match in order for the rule to produce a non-zero rule score.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each rule of the plurality of rules comprises a filter having an equation that adjusts a rule score.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of rules implement fuzzy matching.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein at least two of the plurality of rules are executed in parallel for the determining.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a rule score of a respective rule of the plurality of rules is inversely proportional to its degree of specificity.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a meta-rule that relate to the rules; and applying the meta-rule against the plurality of rules.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the meta-rule is at least one of when a particular rule of the plurality of rules is deleted, matches that resulted from execution of the particular rule are retained in the database; when a new rule is added, not all existing matches in the database affected by the rule are updated.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamically modifying of the rule is based on an execution of a match that the rule was a part of.
15. A system comprising: a hardware processor; a storage device connected to the hardware processor comprising: a database comprising a plurality of rules; a database comprising a plurality of entities received at an input of the system; and a match database comprising a plurality of matches and respective match values between two entities of the plurality of entities determined by the processor using at least two rules of the plurality of rules, as a set of match rules, wherein the set of match rules is included in a query executed across a set of data nodes; wherein the set of data nodes is adjusted based on at least one dynamically modified set of match rules, and wherein at least one of the plurality of rules is dynamically modifiable at run-time and wherein one or more of the plurality of matches and match values are updated based on the at least one dynamically modifiable plurality of rules and the adjusted set of data nodes.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the received entities comprise name-value pairs that are processed by the processor prior to entry into the database.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein each rule of the plurality of rules comprises a filter having a condition that must be met by the match in order for the rule to produce a non-zero rule score.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least two rules in parallel.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive a plurality of rules that are stored in a database in a storage device; receive a plurality of entities as inputs; determine a degree of matching between a first entity and a second entity of the plurality of entities, using at least two of the plurality of rules, as a set of match rules, that contribute to the degree of matching, wherein the set of match rules is included in a query executed across a set of data nodes; output the determined degree of matching to a display device; dynamically modify, at run-time, at least one of the set of match rules based on the degree of matching; adjust the set of data nodes based on the at least one dynamically modified set of match rules; and update one or more existing matches in the database affected by a respective rule of the at least one of dynamically modified set of match rules and the adjusted set of data nodes.
20. The storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to scale the processor by increasing or reducing processing power both in response to a varying number of entities received and a varying complexity of the plurality of rules used to determine the degree of matching.
</claims>
</document>
