<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10K11/178,G10L25/84,H04R1/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOMES, RODRIGO SARTORIO
CARRERAS, RICARDO FEDERICO
BUCKLEY, DANIEL JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849203
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic capability demonstration in wearable audio device
</title>

<abstract>
Various implementations include approaches for dynamically demonstrating device capabilities in a wearable audio device based upon detected environmental conditions. In certain cases, these approaches include initiating a demonstration using the wearable audio device to provide the user with an example of the device capabilities, based upon detected environmental conditions proximate the wearable audio device and/or a biometric state of the device user.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A wearable audio device comprising: an acoustic transducer having a sound-radiating surface for providing an audio output; and a control system coupled with the acoustic transducer and a sensor system, the control system configured to: receive data about at least one of: an environmental condition proximate the wearable audio device or a biometric state associated with a user of the wearable audio device from the sensor system; detect availability of a demonstration mode at the wearable audio system based upon the data about the environmental condition or the biometric state, and demonstration mode settings; provide a user prompt to initiate the demonstration mode at the wearable audio device; and initiate the demonstration mode in response to actuation of the user prompt at the wearable audio device or another device.
2. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the demonstration mode settings comprise capabilities listings for each of a plurality of acoustic features of the wearable audio device.
3. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the sensor system comprises a location tracking system, wherein the environmental condition comprises a location of the wearable audio device, and wherein the location comprises at least one of: a proximity to a location of interest, movement between locations, a proximity to another audio device in a network of audio devices, or a proximity to a smart device associated with a user distinct from a user of the wearable audio device.
4. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the control system is coupled with a smart device having access to a user profile about a user, wherein the control system is further configured to detect availability of the demonstration mode at the wearable audio device based upon the user profile.
5. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the sensor system comprises a position tracking system, wherein the environmental condition comprises a position of the sensor system.
6. The wearable audio device of claim 5, wherein the position tracking system comprises a head tracking system or a body tracking system for detecting at least one of acceleration, deceleration, look direction, head movement or body movement of a user of the wearable audio device.
7. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the sensor system comprises a microphone and the environmental condition comprises an ambient acoustic signal.
8. The wearable audio device of claim 7, wherein the control system is configured to analyze the ambient acoustic signal to detect at least one of: a voice of a user in the ambient acoustic signal, a noise level of the ambient acoustic signal or a noise signature of the ambient acoustic signal.
9. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the sensor system comprises a wireless transceiver configured to detect an audio cache proximate the wearable audio device, and the control system is configured to provide a notification about the audio cache in the user prompt to initiate the demonstration mode.
10. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein, during the demonstration mode, the control system is configured to: detect an acoustic signal at the wearable audio device; and apply at least one filter to the detected acoustic signal for playback at the acoustic transducer according to the demonstration mode settings.
11. The wearable audio device of claim 1, further comprising an active noise reduction (ANR) circuit coupled with the acoustic transducer for filtering the audio playback according to the demonstration mode settings.
12. The wearable audio device of claim 11, wherein the ANR circuit comprises a set of controllable noise cancelling (CNC) filters permitting user control of noise cancelling functions at the wearable audio device.
13. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the demonstration mode comprises an augmented reality (AR) demonstration mode, and wherein the control system initiates the demonstration mode by outputting an AR message at the transducer during the demonstration mode.
14. The wearable audio device of claim 1, wherein the demonstration mode comprises a voice pickup demonstration mode, wherein the sensor system detects an acoustic signal comprising a voice signal from a user during the demonstration mode, and wherein the control system is configured to apply at least one filter to the voice signal from the user to provide an audio representation of the filtered voice signal.
15. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving data about at least one of: an environmental condition proximate a wearable audio device or a biometric state associated with a user of the wearable audio device from a sensor system; detecting availability of a demonstration mode at the wearable audio device based upon the data about the environmental condition or the biometric state, and demonstration mode settings for the wearable audio device; providing a user prompt to initiate the demonstration mode at the wearable audio device; and initiating the demonstration mode in response to actuation of the user prompt at the wearable audio device or another device.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the demonstration mode settings comprise capabilities listings for each of a plurality of acoustic features of the wearable audio device.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the environmental condition comprises a location of the wearable audio device, and wherein the location comprises at least one of: a proximity to a location of interest, movement between locations, a proximity to another audio device in a network of audio devices, or a proximity to a smart device associated with a user distinct from a user of the wearable audio device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving user profile data about a user of the wearable audio device, wherein detecting the availability of the demonstration mode at the wearable audio device is based upon the user profile data.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the environmental condition comprises a position of the wearable audio device, the position measured as position data comprising at least one of: acceleration, deceleration, look direction, head movement or body movement of a user of the wearable audio device.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the environmental condition comprises an ambient acoustic signal, and wherein the method further comprises: analyzing the ambient acoustic signal to detect at least one of: a voice of a user in the ambient acoustic signal, a noise level of the ambient acoustic signal or a noise signature of the ambient acoustic signal.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: detecting an audio cache proximate the wearable audio device; and providing a notification about the audio cache in the user prompt to initiate the demonstration mode.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein, during the demonstration mode, the method further comprises: detecting an acoustic signal at the wearable audio device; and applying at least one filter to the detected acoustic signal for playback at the acoustic transducer according to the demonstration mode settings.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: filtering the audio playback according to the demonstration mode settings using an active noise reduction (ANR) circuit, wherein the ANR circuit comprises a set of controllable noise cancelling (CNC) filters permitting user control of noise cancelling functions at the wearable audio device.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the demonstration mode comprises an augmented reality (AR) demonstration mode, and wherein initiating the demonstration mode comprises outputting an AR message at the transducer during the demonstration mode.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the demonstration mode comprises a voice pickup demonstration mode, wherein the method further comprises: detecting an acoustic signal comprising a voice signal from a user during the demonstration mode; and applying at least one filter to the voice signal from the user to provide an audio representation of the filtered voice signal.
</claims>
</document>
