<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0488,A61N1/04,A61N1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOKULA EDUCATION FOUNDATION (MEDICAL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TALASILA, VISWANATH
SRIDHAR, VINAY
PADMANABH, RAGHAVENDRA
JAYARAM, PRAMOD
BHANDARKAR, ADITI
DEBUR, RAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59497327
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device, system and apparatus for functional electrical stimulation of muscle
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect, a system for stimulating muscle comprises a set of stimulators to stimulate a first muscles, a set of sensors providing first measurement comprising a set of electromyograms (EMG) from another set of muscles coupled to the body part, a set of sensors mounted in the vicinity of the set of stimulator and the set of sensors, providing a measurement representing a motion and orientation of the first body part, another set of sensors providing a measurement representing a condition external to the body part, a processor generating a first position of the body part at a first time instance from the measurements and a processor adjusting at least one of a time duration, trigger instance, and trigger strength of the set of stimulator. In that, the comparator generates a position error as difference between the first position and a reference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for stimulating a muscle comprising: a set of stimulators is configured for stimulating a first set of muscles within a first body part; a first set of sensors configured for providing a first measurement comprising a set of electromyograms (EMG) from a second set of muscles coupled to the first body part; a second set of sensors mounted in a vicinity of the set of stimulators and the first set of sensors, configured for providing a second measurement representing a motion and an orientation of the first body part; a third set of sensors consisting at least one of a camera, an infrared sensor, sound sensor, near field sensor, radar sensor configured for providing a third measurement representing a spacial relation between an external object and the first body part; a first processor generating a position estimate of the first body part at a first time instance from the first, second, third measurements; a second processor adjusting at least one of a time duration, a trigger instance, and a trigger strength of the set of stimulators; and a comparator configured for generating a position error as a difference between the position estimate comprising a first position, an orientation and a direction of motion of the first body part and a reference trajectory and the second processor adjusting at least one of the time duration, the trigger instance, and the trigger strength of the set of stimulators to reduce the position error, wherein the second set of sensors comprising a set of flex sensors and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) configured to be mounted over the first body part, in that the set of flex sensors is configured for providing flex sensor measurements and the IMU is configured for providing IMU measurements, and the position estimate is determined after correcting the IMU measurements from the flex sensor measurements.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the third set of sensors comprising a set of cameras configured for mounting over a third body part for providing a sequence of images each comprising the first body part and an object present in the condition that is external to the first body part.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first processor is operative to determine the distance between the object and the first body part in the sequence of images and to determine an orientation of the object with respect to the first body part in the sequence of images and the second processor is operative to trigger the set of stimulators with a first trigger strength when the distance is within a first reference range and to trigger the set of stimulators with a second trigger strength that is greater than the first trigger strength when the distance is within a second reference range that is closer to the object.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the second processor is further configured to triggering the set of stimulators with a third trigger strength when the distance is within the first reference range and the orientation of the object is vertical, and to triggering the set of stimulators with a fourth trigger strength that is greater than the third trigger strength when the distance is within the second reference range and the orientation of the object is vertical.
5. The system of claim 4, further comprising an apparel configured for wearing over the first and a second body part, in that, the set of stimulators and the first set of sensors are embedded such that the set of stimulators configured to stimulate first set of muscle and the first set of sensors is configured to sense the second set of muscles muscle in the first body part when the apparel is worn wherein the apparel further comprises a error indicator that is configured to indicate an error when the first set of sensors in the apparel is not worn appropriately.
6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a memory to store a set of reference positions generated from the first, second and third measurements.
7. The system of claim 6, further comprising a reference position generator configured for generating the set of reference positions of the first body part from the first, second and third measurements and a trajectory generator is configured for generating a set of intermediate positions of the first body part between the set of reference positions.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the comparator is further configured to generate the position error as a difference between the first position and the corresponding ones of reference position and the intermediate position.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the set of reference positions comprises a plurality of gait positions of a limb in a gait cycle and the set intermediate positions comprises the plurality of positions of the limb between two successive gait positions.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of positions of the limb between two successive gait positions are determined from at least one of a cadence, stride length, gait speed, balance, and energy consumption in the gait cycle.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a wireless communication module to transfer and receive an information to and from a central server system and a database, in that, the first, second, third measurements, the position error, the time duration, the trigger instance, and the trigger strength are transferred to the database and the plurality of positions of the limb between two successive gait positions, the cadence, stride length, gait speed, balance, and energy consumption in the gait cycle are received from the database.
</claims>
</document>
