<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/32,G06K9/34,G06K9/46,G06K9/58,G06K9/62,G06T7/194
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
FOROUGHI, HOMA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67684574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for background removal from documents
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for background removal from documents. The method includes obtaining an image of a document, performing a clustering operation on the image to obtain a plurality of image segments, and performing, for each image segment, a foreground/background classification to determine whether the image segment includes foreground. The method further includes obtaining an augmented image by combining the image segments that include foreground, and obtaining a background-treated image by cropping the image of the document, based on the foreground in the augmented image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for background removal from documents, comprising: obtaining an image of a document; performing a clustering operation on the image to obtain a plurality of image segments; performing, for each image segment, a foreground/background classification to determine whether the image segment comprises foreground, wherein performing the foreground/background classification comprises: selecting a plurality of random patches of pixels in the image segment, classifying each of the selected random patches as either foreground or background, and based on the classification of the selected random patches, classifying the image segment as either foreground or background; obtaining an augmented image by combining the image segments comprising foreground; and obtaining a background-treated image by cropping the image of the document, based on the foreground in the augmented image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting the image of the document to Lab color space, wherein the clustering operation is performed using ab channels of the Lab color space.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the clustering operation comprises generating k image segments for k clusters, and wherein k represents the number of major color components identified in a color histogram of the image of the document.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering operation is performed using a K-means algorithm.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein classifying each of the selected random patches comprises applying a support vector machine configured to perform a binary classification between foreground and background.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein cropping the image of the document comprises: binarizing the image of the document to distinguish foreground and background pixels based on the augmented image, obtaining a histogram based on a number of foreground pixels in columns of the binarized image, identifying in the histogram, a region in which the number of foreground pixels is below a specified threshold, and removing the region from the image of the document to obtain the background-treated image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein cropping the image of the document further comprises: obtaining, for pixels in columns of the background-treated image, color variances, obtaining derivatives of the color variances, obtaining baseline variances at corners of the background-treated image, determine a cropping border in the derivatives of the color variances, based on a deviation from the baseline variances, and crop the background-treated image by applying the cropping border to the background-treated image.
8. A system for background removal from documents, the system comprising: a computer processor; a pixel clustering engine executing on the computer processor configured to perform a clustering operation on an image of a document to obtain a plurality of image segments; and a foreground/background segmentation engine executing on the computer processor configured to: perform, for each image segment, a foreground/background classification to determine whether the image segment comprises foreground, wherein performing the foreground/background classification comprises: selecting a plurality of random patches of pixels in the image segment, classifying each of the selected random patches as either foreground or background, and based on the classification of the selected random patches, classifying the image segment as either foreground or background, and obtain an augmented image by combining the image segments that comprise foreground, and a cropping engine executing on the computer processor configured to: obtain a background-treated image by cropping the image of the document, based on the foreground in the augmented image.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a color space conversion engine executing on the computer processor configured to convert the image of the document to Lab color space, wherein the clustering operation is performed using ab channels of the Lab color space.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein performing the clustering operation comprises generating k image segments for k clusters, and wherein k represents the number of major color components identified in a color histogram of the image of the document.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein cropping the image of the document comprises: binarizing the image of the document to distinguish foreground and background pixels based on the augmented image, obtaining a histogram based on a number of foreground pixels in columns of the binarized image, identifying in the histogram, a region in which the number of foreground pixels is below a specified threshold, and removing the region from the image of the document to obtain the background-treated image.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein cropping the image of the document further comprises: obtaining, for pixels in columns of the background-treated image, color variances, obtaining derivatives of the color variances, obtaining baseline variances at corners of the background-treated image, determine a cropping border in the derivatives of the color variances, based on a deviation from the baseline variances, and crop the background-treated image by applying the cropping border to the background-treated image.
13. A method for background removal from documents, comprising: obtaining an image of a document; performing a clustering operation on the image to obtain a plurality of image segments; performing, for each image segment, a foreground/background classification to determine whether the image segment comprises foreground; obtaining an augmented image by combining the image segments comprising foreground; and obtaining a background-treated image by cropping the image of the document, based on the foreground in the augmented image, wherein cropping the image of the document comprises: obtaining, for pixels in columns of the background-treated image, color variances, obtaining derivatives of the color variances, obtaining baseline variances at corners of the background-treated image, determine a cropping border in the derivatives of the color variances, based on a deviation from the baseline variances, and crop the background-treated image by applying the cropping border to the background-treated image.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising converting the image of the document to Lab color space, wherein the clustering operation is performed using ab channels of the Lab color space.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein performing the clustering operation comprises generating k image segments for k clusters, and wherein k represents the number of major color components identified in a color histogram of the image of the document.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein cropping the image of the document further comprises: binarizing the image of the document to distinguish foreground and background pixels based on the augmented image, obtaining a histogram based on a number of foreground pixels in columns of the binarized image, identifying in the histogram, a region in which the number of foreground pixels is below a specified threshold, and removing the region from the image of the document to obtain the background-treated image.
17. A system for background removal from documents, the system comprising: a computer processor; a pixel clustering engine executing on the computer processor configured to perform a clustering operation on an image of a document to obtain a plurality of image segments; and a foreground/background segmentation engine executing on the computer processor configured to: perform, for each image segment, a foreground/background classification to determine whether the image segment comprises foreground, and obtain an augmented image by combining the image segments that comprise foreground, and a cropping engine executing on the computer processor configured to: obtain a background-treated image by cropping the image of the document, based on the foreground in the augmented image, wherein cropping the image of the document further comprises: obtaining, for pixels in columns of the background-treated image, color variances, obtaining derivatives of the color variances, obtaining baseline variances at corners of the background-treated image, determine a cropping border in the derivatives of the color variances, based on a deviation from the baseline variances, and crop the background-treated image by applying the cropping border to the background-treated image.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a color space conversion engine executing on the computer processor configured to convert the image of the document to Lab color space, wherein the clustering operation is performed using ab channels of the Lab color space.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein performing the clustering operation comprises generating k image segments for k clusters, and wherein k represents the number of major color components identified in a color histogram of the image of the document.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein cropping the image of the document further comprises: binarizing the image of the document to distinguish foreground and background pixels based on the augmented image, obtaining a histogram based on a number of foreground pixels in columns of the binarized image, identifying in the histogram, a region in which the number of foreground pixels is below a specified threshold, and removing the region from the image of the document to obtain the background-treated image.
</claims>
</document>
