<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B8/08,G06K9/20,G06K9/46,G06T11/60,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/187
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WATANABE MASAKI
HONJO, YASUNORI
IGARASHI, YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60988058
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analyzing apparatus and analyzing method
</title>

<abstract>
An analyzing apparatus according to an embodiment includes processing circuitry. The processing circuitry is configured to calculate a tissue characteristic parameter value with respect to each of a plurality of positions within a region of interest, by analyzing a result of a scan performed on a patient. The processing circuitry is configured to determine a measurement region in the region of interest by performing an analysis while using the tissue characteristic parameter values. The processing circuitry is configured to calculate a statistic value of the tissue characteristic parameter values in the measurement region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An analyzing apparatus comprising processing circuitry configured: to calculate parameter values based on a shear wave with respect to a plurality of positions within a region of interest, by analyzing a result of a scan performed on a patient; to determine a region in the region of interest based on an index value indicating a degree of stability of each of the parameter values according to the plurality of positions and a threshold value; and to calculate a statistic value of the parameter values in the region.
2. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry calculates the index value related to variance among the calculated parameter values with respect to a plurality of positions within the region of interest, and the processing circuitry determines the region by comparing the index value of each of the plurality of positions with a threshold value.
3. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry causes the sub-regions to be displayed into an image based on the calculated parameter values.
4. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein, as the index value, the processing circuitry calculates one selected from among a variance value, a standard deviation, and a residual sum of squares, with respect to the calculated parameter values.
5. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry obtains distribution information of the parameter values with respect to a plurality of sub-regions included in the region of interest, the processing circuitry calculates the index value indicating a degree of stability of the parameter values for each of the sub-regions, by using the distribution information as an input to a trained machine learning scheme, and the processing circuitry determines the region by comparing the index value of each of the plurality of sub-regions with a threshold value.
6. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processing circuitry receives an input to change a size of the sub-regions.
7. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry causes the region to be displayed into an image based on the calculated parameter values.
8. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry receives an input to change the threshold value.
9. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processing circuitry determines the region by comparing the index value of each of the plurality of positions with the changed threshold value.
10. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processing circuitry receives, as the input, an instruction of an operator to change the threshold value.
11. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the region is a first region, and the processing circuitry determines a second region in the region of interest based on the changed threshold value that is changed by the instruction, and causes the second region to be displayed into an image.
12. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry changes the threshold value in accordance with a site of the patient subject to a measuring process.
13. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, as the parameter values, the processing circuitry calculates, with respect to positions where the scan was performed, one selected from among shear velocity values, arrival times, elasticity modulus values, velocity values, displacement values, strain values, attenuation values, and brightness local variance values.
14. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, as the statistic value, the processing circuitry calculates one selected from among an average value, a median, a variance value, a standard deviation, and a residual sum of squares, with respect to the calculated parameter values.
15. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry determines the threshold value based on a site of the patient.
16. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 15, wherein a threshold value is registered in advance for each of various sites, and the processing circuitry determines the threshold value by reading a respective threshold value registered by an operator in advance for the each of various sites.
17. An analyzing apparatus comprising processing circuitry configured: to calculate parameter values based on a shear wave with respect to a plurality of positions within a region of interest, by analyzing a result of a scan performed on a patient; to determine a candidate region in the region of interest based on an index value indicating a degree of stability of each of the parameter values according to the plurality of positions and a threshold value; and to cause the candidate region to be displayed into an image.
18. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry calculates the index value related to variance among the calculated parameter values, with respect to each of a plurality of position within the region of interest, and the processing circuitry determines the candidate region by comparing the index value of each of the plurality of positions with a threshold value.
19. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the processing circuitry causes the sub-regions to be displayed into the image based on the calculated parameter values.
20. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the processing circuitry determines one or more candidate regions, from within a region combining together two or more of the sub-regions that are each determined, as a result of the comparison, to have a small value as the variance.
21. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the processing circuitry determines one or more candidate regions of which a quantity is determined in advance.
22. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 20, wherein, as the candidate region, the processing circuitry determines a circular region having a largest diameter.
23. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry obtains distribution information of the parameter values with respect to each of a plurality of sub-regions included in the region of interest, the processing circuitry calculates the index value indicating a degree of stability of the parameter values for each of the sub-regions, by using the distribution information as an input to a trained machine learning scheme, and the processing circuitry determines the candidate region by comparing the index value of each of the plurality of sub-regions with a threshold value.
24. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 23, wherein the processing circuitry determines one or more candidate regions from within a region combining together two or more of the sub-regions that are each determined, as a result of the comparison, to exhibit a high level as the degree of stability.
25. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry determines the candidate region having a shape and a size that are set in advance.
26. The analyzing apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the image is at least one of B-mode image, a firmness image, and a region image in which the firmness levels of the tissue in a body of the patient are displayed.
27. An analyzing method comprising: calculating parameter values based on a shear wave with respect to a plurality of positions within a region of interest, by analyzing a result of a scan performed on a patient; determining a measurement region in the region of interest based on an index value indicating a degree of stability of each of the parameter values according to the plurality of positions and a threshold value; and calculating a statistic value of the parameter values in the region.
28. An analyzing method comprising: calculating parameter values based on a shear wave with respect to a plurality of positions within a region of interest, by analyzing a result of a scan performed on a patient; determining a candidate region in the region of interest based on an index value indicating a degree of stability of each of the parameter values according to the plurality of positions and a threshold value; and causing the candidate region to be displayed into an image.
</claims>
</document>
