<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, XIANG
ZHAO, XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64901068
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-time probabilistic root cause correlation of network failures
</title>

<abstract>
Various aspects of the subject technology related to systems and methods for performing real-time probabilistic root cause correlation. A system may be configured to receive network topology data from a plurality of external sources and generate a cross-layer network topology. The system may generate an event model based on the cross-layer network topology. The event model models the causal relationship between root causes and one or more observed failure events that are associated with one or more network entities. The system may receive a plurality of network event data for one or more network entities identified in the cross-layer network topology. The system may infer, using a trained Bayesian network, a root cause of at least one failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data based on the plurality of network event data and the generated event model. The system output the inferred root cause correlated to the failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for performing probabilistic root cause correlation, the method comprising: receiving network topology data from a plurality of external sources, generating, based on the received network topology data, a cross-layer network topology; generating, based on the generated cross-layer network topology, an event model, wherein the event model models causal relationships between root causes and one or more observed failure events that are associated with one or more network entities, the event model is a bipartite causality graph comprising multiple connected bipartite causality sub-graphs, each node in the bipartite causality graph and the multiple bipartite connected causality sub-graphs is a binary variable indicating the presence or absence of an observable event, and each edge in the bipartite causality graph and the multiple connected bipartite causality sub-graphs represents a causality relationship, wherein a first edge of a first bipartite causality sub-graph represents a causality relationship for a group of network entities and a second edge of a second bipartite causality sub-graph represents a causality relationship for a subset of the group of network entities; receiving a plurality of network event data for the one or more network entities identified in the cross-layer network topology; inferring, using a trained Bayesian network, a root cause of at least one failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data based on the plurality of network event data and the generated event model; and outputting the inferred root cause correlated to the failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising training parameters of the Bayesian network using a maximum a posteriori estimation based on historical event data included in a second event model.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising indexing the received plurality of event data by event type, starting time, ending time, and/or one or more network entities that are associated with one or more failure events.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the received plurality of network event data includes maintenance plan data or ticket system log data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the received plurality of network event data is fetched by a real-time event collector.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the multiple bipartite causality subgraphs is an independent Bayesian network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein inferring root causes of the at least one failure event is performed in parallel.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the probabilistic root cause correlation is carried out in real-time.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable instructions and one or more processors are configured to carry out the probabilistic root cause correlation in real-time.
10. A system for performing probabilistic root cause correlation, the system comprising: a memory storing computer-readable instructions, one or more event models, and/or one or more Bayesian networks; and one or more processors, the one or more processors configured to execute the computerreadable instructions, which when executed carry out a method comprising: receiving network topology data from a plurality of external sources; generating, based on the received network topology data, a cross-layer network topology; generating based on the generated cross-layer network topology, an event model, wherein the event model models causal relationships between root causes and one or more observed failure events that are associated with one or more network entities, the event model is a bipartite causality graph comprising multiple connected bipartite causality sub-graphs, each node in the bipartite causality graph and multiple connected bipartite causality sub-graphs is a binary variable indicating the presence or absence of an observable event, and each edge in the bipartite causality graph and the multiple connected bipartite causality sub-graphs represents a causality relationship, wherein a first edge of a first bipartite causality sub-graph represents a causality relationship for a group of network entities and a second edge of a second bipartite causality sub-graph represents a causality relationship for a subset of the group of network entities; receiving a plurality of network event data for the one or more network entities identified in the cross-layer network topology; inferring, using a trained Bayesian network, a root cause of at least one failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data based on the plurality of network event data and the generated event model; and outputting the inferred root cause correlated to the failure event indicated in the plurality of network event data.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are configured to train parameters of the Bayesian network using a maximum a posteriori estimation based on historical event data included in a second event model.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to index the received plurality of event data by event type, starting time, ending time, and/or one or more network entities that are associated with one or more failure events.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the received plurality of network event data includes maintenance plan data or ticket system log data.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the received plurality of network event data is fetched by a real-time event collector.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein each of the multiple bipartite causality sub-graphs is an independent Bayesian network.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein inferring each of the multiple bipartite causality sub-graphs is performed in parallel.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors may transmit or receive data asynchronously using publish-subscribe messaging.
18. The system of claim 10, where in the one or more processors may transmit or receive data asynchronously periodic polling.
</claims>
</document>
