<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLANCHARD, TERENCE D.
JHAVERI, NEIL V.
ANDERSON, IAN W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54699505
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic account updating
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus for dynamically updating settings of an electronic mail client of a client device is disclosed. In one embodiment, as the client device moves to different network environments, the settings of the electronic mail client are automatically updated to account for each network's characteristics and operational requirements. In another embodiment, the settings of the electronic mail client are automatically updated to account for changes (e.g., upgrades) at a particular server. The settings can be updated based on network information or server information from received from another device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for dynamically updating configuration settings for an email account registered within an electronic mail client installed on a computing device, the method comprising, at a first server: receiving, from the electronic mail client, a report indicating that first configuration settings failed to enable the electronic mail client to login to the email account; identifying, based on the report, second configuration settings for the email account, wherein the second configuration settings include information associated with a second server for logging into the email account; and providing the second configuration settings to the electronic mail client, wherein the second configuration settings cause the electronic mail client to login to the email account using the second configuration settings.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the report further identifies at least one of: (i) a third server, (ii) details for retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the third server, (iii) a port setting, (iv) an authentication setting, or (iv) a secure sockets layer (SSL) setting to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein attempting to connect to the third server is performed over a network, and the report further includes network information associated with the network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the electronic mail client attempts to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server while the second configuration settings are applied to the email account; and the method further includes, in response to the electronic mail client successfully retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the second server: receiving a notification that indicates emails associated with the email account were successfully retrieved and/or delivered using the second server.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: updating internal configuration settings in response to receiving the notification.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second configuration settings for the email account are respectively associated with an incoming mail server name and/or an outgoing mail server name for the second server.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the incoming mail server name and/or the outgoing mail server name are distinct from one another between the first and second configuration settings.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the second configuration settings include a list of mail server names to be used in lieu of the incoming mail server name and/or outgoing mail server name for the second server.
9. At least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium configured to store instructions that, when executed by at least one processor included in first server, cause the first server to dynamically update configuration settings for an email account registered within an electronic mail client installed on a computing device, by carrying out steps that include: receiving, from the electronic mail client, a report indicating that first configuration settings failed to enable the electronic mail client to login to the email account; identifying, based on the report, second configuration settings for the email account, wherein the second configuration settings include information associated with a second server for logging into the email account; and providing the second configuration settings to the electronic mail client, wherein the second configuration settings cause the electronic mail client to login to the email account using the second configuration settings.
10. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the report further identifies at least one of: (i) a third server, (ii) details for retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the third server, (iii) a port setting, (iv) an authentication setting, or (iv) a secure sockets layer (SSL) setting to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server.
11. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein attempting to connect to the third server is performed over a network, and the report further includes network information associated with the network.
12. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein: the electronic mail client attempts to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server while the second configuration settings are applied to the email account; and the steps further include, in response to the electronic mail client successfully retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the second server: receiving a notification that indicates emails associated with the email account were successfully retrieved and/or delivered using the second server.
13. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the first and second configuration settings for the email account are respectively associated with an incoming mail server name and/or an outgoing mail server name for the second server.
14. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the incoming mail server name and/or the outgoing mail server name are distinct from one another between the first and second configuration settings.
15. A first server configured to dynamically update configuration settings for an email account registered within an electronic mail client installed on a computing device, the first server comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the first server to: receive, from the electronic mail client, a report indicating that first configuration settings failed to enable the electronic mail client to login to the email account; identify, based on the report, second configuration settings for the email account, wherein the second configuration settings include information associated with a second server for logging into the email account; and provide the second configuration settings to the electronic mail client, wherein the second configuration settings cause the electronic mail client to login to the email account using the second configuration settings.
16. The first server of claim 15, wherein the report further identifies at least one of: (i) a third server, (ii) details for retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the third server, (iii) a port setting, (iv) an authentication setting, or (iv) a secure sockets layer (SSL) setting to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server.
17. The first server of claim 16, wherein attempting to connect to the third server is performed over a network, and the report further includes network information associated with the network.
18. The first server of claim 15, wherein: the electronic mail client attempts to retrieve and/or deliver emails associated with the email account using the second server while the second configuration settings are applied to the email account; and the at least one processor further causes the first server to, in response to the electronic mail client successfully retrieving and/or delivering emails associated with the email account using the second server: receive a notification that indicates emails associated with the email account were successfully retrieved and/or delivered using the second server.
19. The first server of claim 15, wherein the first and second configuration settings for the email account are respectively associated with an incoming mail server name and/or an outgoing mail server name for the second server.
20. The first server of claim 19, wherein the incoming mail server name and/or the outgoing mail server name are distinct from one another between the first and second configuration settings.
</claims>
</document>
