<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H70/60,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CURAI
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMATRIAIN, XAVIER
CHABLANI, MANISH
HUNT, NEIL
KANNAN, ANITHA
KHOSLA, NEAL
RAVURI, MURALI
RODRIGUES, VITOR
SONTAG, DAVID
TSO, GEOFFREY
VENKATARAMAN, VIGNESH
Prabhu, Viraj Uday
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68099024
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for responding to healthcare inquiries
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for responding to a healthcare inquiry from a user are disclosed. In one particular embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for responding to a healthcare inquiry from a user, according to a set of instructions stored on a memory of a computing device and executed by a processor of the computing device, the method comprising the steps of: classifying an intent of the user based on the healthcare inquiry; identifying the intent as a need to obtain a dermatological diagnosis or treatment; soliciting, from the user and via the computing device, an image of the user's skin area to be diagnosed or treated; instantiating an image classification system to identify a dermatological disease from the image; and presenting one or more medical recommendations to the user based on the identified dermatological disease.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for responding to a healthcare inquiry from a user, according to a set of instructions stored on a memory of a computing device and executed by a processor of the computing device, the method comprising the steps of: receiving, by the computing device, the healthcare inquiry from the user; determining and classifying, by the computing device, an intent of the user based on the healthcare inquiry; identifying, by the computing device, the intent as a need to obtain a dermatological diagnosis or treatment; soliciting, from the user and by the computing device, an image of the user's skin area to be diagnosed or treated; receiving the image from the user and by the computing device; identifying, by the computing device, a dermatological disease from the received image by using prototypical clustering networks; determining, by the computing device, one or more medical recommendations based on the identified dermatological disease by invoking a knowledge base, the knowledge base being a graph representation of medical concepts and relations among the medical concepts; obtaining, by the computing device, a medical expert's approval of the one or more medical recommendations; and presenting, by the computing device, the approved one or more medical recommendations to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to the presenting step, determining, by the computing device, a confidence level of each of the approved one or more medical recommendations.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising, when the confidence level is below a predetermined threshold, eliciting, by a conversational engine, information from the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the conversational engine is a natural language understanding engine.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the information is in the form of at least one of text, speech, imagery, sound, and medical test results.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the information includes at least one of user's medical history and the user's symptoms.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the conversational engine is one of a diagnosis conversational engine, an information conversational engine, a referral conversational engine, and a treatment conversational engine.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the one or more medical recommendations further invokes a differential diagnosis engine that provides a ranked list of possible diagnoses.
9. An article of manufacture for responding to a healthcare inquiry from a user, the article of manufacture comprising at least one non-transitory processor readable storage medium storing a computer program of instructions configured to be readable by at least one non-transitory processor for instructing the at least one processor to operate so as to: receive the healthcare inquiry from the user; determine and classify an intent of the user based on the healthcare inquiry; identify the intent as a need to obtain a dermatological diagnosis or treatment; solicit, from the user, an image of the user's skin area to be diagnosed or treated; receive the image from the user; identify a dermatological disease from the received image using prototypical clustering networks; determine one or more medical recommendations based on the identified dermatological disease by invoking a knowledge base, the knowledge base being a graph representation of medical concepts and relations among the medical concepts; obtain a medical expert's approval of the one or more medical recommendations; and present the approved one or more medical recommendations to the user.
10. A system for responding to a healthcare inquiry from a user, the system comprising: memory for storing instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: receive the healthcare inquiry from the user; determine and classify an intent of the user based on the healthcare inquiry; identify the intent as a need to obtain a dermatological diagnosis or treatment; solicit, from the user, an image of the user's skin area to be diagnosed or treated; receive the image from the user; identify a dermatological disease from the received image by using prototypical clustering networks; determine one or more medical recommendations based on the identified dermatological disease by invoking a knowledge base, the knowledge base being a graph representation of medical concepts and relations among the medical concepts; obtain a medical expert's approval of the one or more medical recommendations; and present the approved one or more medical recommendations to the user.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to, prior to presenting the approved one or more medical recommendations, determining a confidence level of each of the approved one or more medical recommendations.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to, when the confidence level is below a predetermined threshold, elicit, by a conversational engine, information from the user.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the conversational engine is a natural language understanding engine.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the information is in the form of at least one of text, speech, imagery, sound, and medical test results.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the information includes at least one of user's medical history and the user's symptoms.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the conversational engine is one of a diagnosis conversational engine, an information conversational engine, a referral conversational engine, and a treatment conversational engine.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein, to determine the one or more medical recommendations, the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to invoke a differential diagnosis engine that provides a ranked list of possible diagnoses.
</claims>
</document>
