<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VERMA, PRASHANT
MOKASHI, RONIL SUDHIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74045308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Workload management using blockchain-based transaction deferrals
</title>

<abstract>
A determination is made that a request associated with an application is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral. An insertion of a record representing at least the request at a blockchain is initiated. One or more records representing the request are accessed to perform an operation indicated in the request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: one or more computing devices of a workload management service; wherein the one or more computing devices are configured to: determine that a particular transaction request directed to a first application is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral, wherein the particular transaction request indicates an operation to be implemented on behalf of a particular entity; identify a deferral resource group for the particular transaction request, wherein the deferral resource group comprises a blockchain; initiate an insertion of a first record representing at least the particular transaction request into the blockchain; prior to implementation of the operation, provide an indication to the particular entity, via a programmatic interface, that the operation has succeeded; and cause an implementation of the operation to be initiated, wherein the implementation comprises accessing at least one record representing the particular transaction request.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein to determine that the particular transaction request is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral, the one or more computing devices are configured to perform one or more of: (a) determining that the particular entity is a member of a particular category of clients of a network-accessible service, (b) determining that a measured resource usage metric of a set of resources associated with the first application exceeds a threshold, (c) predicting a probability associated with a workload level of the first application during a time interval, or (d) determining that one or more resources associated with the first application are unavailable.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein to determine that the particular transaction request is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral, the one or more computing devices are configured to examine a score associated with the particular transaction request, wherein the score is produced by one or more of (a) a machine learning model or (b) a rule processing system.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the first record comprises respective encrypted representations of one or more parameters of the particular transaction request.
5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the first application comprises a payment processing application.
6. A method, comprising: performing, at one or more computing devices: receiving a particular request directed to a first application, wherein the particular request indicates an operation to be implemented on behalf of a particular requester; initiating an insertion of a first record representing at least the particular request into a blockchain; prior to implementation of the operation, providing an indication to the particular requester, via a programmatic interface, that the operation has succeeded; and causing an implementation of the operation to be initiated, wherein the implementation comprises accessing at least one record representing the particular request.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein determining that the particular request is a candidate is based at least in part on: (a) determining that the particular requester is a member of a particular category of clients of a network-accessible service, (b) determining that a measured resource usage metric of a set of resources associated with the first application exceeds a threshold, (c) predicting a probability associated with a workload level of the first application during a time interval, or (d) determining that one or more resources associated with the first application are unavailable.
8. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein determining that the particular transaction request is a candidate is based at least in part on output produced by one or more of: (a) a machine learning model or (b) a rule processing system.
9. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the first record comprises respective encrypted representations of one or more parameters of the particular request.
10. The method as recited in claim 9, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: causing a second record of the particular request to be stored at a data store, wherein the second record comprises respective representations of the one or more parameters; and causing an indication of a mapping between the first record and the second record to be stored, wherein the implementation of the operation comprises accessing one or more of: (a) the second record or (b) the mapping.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the data store comprises a key value store.
12. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: providing an indication to the particular requester, via the programmatic interface, that at least a portion of processing associated with the particular request has been deferred.
13. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: in response to a query pertaining to the particular request, providing an indication of at least a portion of the first record.
14. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: receiving a blockchain maintenance participation request, via a programmatic interface, indicating one or more resources usable for blockchain computations; and enabling the one or more resources to be utilized for a blockchain computation.
15. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising performing, by the one or more computing devices: providing an indication, via a programmatic interface, of a compensation for a resource contributed by an entity for blockchain computations associated with the first application.
16. A non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium storing program instructions that when executed on one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine that a particular request associated with a first application is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral; initiate an insertion of a first record representing at least the particular request at a blockchain; prior to implementation of the operation, providing an indication to the particular requester, via a programmatic interface, that the operation has succeeded; and cause an implementation of an operation indicated in the request to be initiated, wherein the implementation comprises accessing at least one record representing the particular request.
17. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the particular request is associated with a particular requester, and wherein the instructions when executed on one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: generate a respective trust score corresponding to individual ones of one or more requesters including the particular requester; and cause the respective trust scores to be cached at a first device of a particular provider, wherein a cached trust score is usable to respond to a request directed to the particular provider during at least a first offline interval of the particular provider.
18. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the instructions when executed on one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine, based at least in part on a particular class of requester associated with a second request directed to the first application, that the second request is not a candidate for blockchain-based deferral.
19. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein the first application comprises storing, corresponding to individual ones of a plurality of events or actions, a respective audit log record.
20. The non-transitory computer-accessible storage medium as recited in claim 16, wherein to determine that the particular request is a candidate for blockchain-based deferral, the instructions when executed on the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: examine output produced by one or more of: (a) a machine learning model or (b) a rule processing system.
</claims>
</document>
