<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, MICHAEL, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49548238
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for controlling a user experience
</title>

<abstract>
System and methods for controlling a user experience are described. In an aspect, an interface can comprise an interface device for rendering content to a user, a sensor having a gesture zone associated therewith configured to detect a dexterous gesture of a user within the gesture zone and generate a sensor signal representing the dexterous gesture. A processor may be provided in communication with the sensor and the interface device. The processor receives the sensor signal, analyzes the sensor signal to determine a control action associated with the detected dexterous gesture of the user, and configures the user interface based upon the determined control action of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive, from one or more sensors, data corresponding to a gesture of a user; determine a user profile associated with the user; determine, based on the user profile, a control action corresponding to the gesture; determine, based on a proximity to the one or more sensors, a device from among a plurality of devices for applying the control action; and modify, based on the control action, a user experience associated with the device.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive an identifier associated with the user, wherein the processor executable instructions that cause the at least one processor to determine the user profile associated with the user further cause the at least one processor to determine, based on the identifier, the user profile.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 2, wherein the identifier comprises one or more of a name or a biometric signature.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an indication to associate the gesture with the control action; and store an association of the gesture and the control action in the user profile.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the processor executable instructions that cause the at least one processor to modify the user experience further cause the at least one processor to modify a user interface.
6. An apparatus comprising one or more processors and a memory storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive, from one or more sensors, first data corresponding to a gesture of a user; receive an indication to associate the gesture with a control action; store an association of the gesture and the control action in a user profile associated with the user; receive, from the one or more sensors, second data corresponding to the gesture; determine, based on a proximity to the one or more sensors, a device from among a plurality of devices for applying the control action; and modify, based on the control action, a user experience associated with the device.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor executable instructions that cause the apparatus to modify the user experience further cause the apparatus to one or more of: modify a user interface associated with the device; modify the user experience based on modifying a playback of content; or modify one or more environmental conditions associated with the device.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the apparatus to: determine, from a plurality of user profiles, the user profile; and determine, based on an identifier, the user profile.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the identifier comprises one or more of a name or biometric data.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive, from one or more sensors, data corresponding to a gesture of a user; determine a user profile associated with the user; determine, based on the user profile, a control action corresponding to the gesture; determine a device from among a plurality of devices for applying the control action, wherein the device is determined based on a proximity of the device to the one or more sensors; and modify, based on the control action, a user experience associated with the device.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the processor executable instructions that cause the at least one processor to modify the user experience further cause the at least one processor to one or more of: modify a playback of content by the device; modify a user interface associated with the device; or modify one or more environmental conditions associated with the device.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an indication to associate the gesture with the control action; and store an association of the gesture and the control action in the user profile.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an identifier associated with the user; and determine, based on the identifier, the user.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the identifier comprises one or more of a name or a biometric signature.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive, from one or more sensors, first data corresponding to a gesture of a user; receive an indication to associate the gesture with a control action; store an association of the gesture and the control action in a user profile associated with the user; receive, from the one or more sensors, second data corresponding to the gesture; determine, from a plurality of devices, based on a proximity to the one or more sensors, a device for applying the control action; and modify, based on the control action, a user experience associated with the device.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions that cause the at least one processor to modify the user experience further cause the at least one processor to one or more of: modify a user interface associated with the device; modify the user experience based on modifying a playback of content; or modify one or more environmental conditions associated with the device.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to determine, from a plurality of user profiles, the user profile.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to determine, based on an identifier, the user profile.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the identifier comprises one or more of a name or biometric data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an identifier associated with the user; and determine, based on the identifier, the user.
</claims>
</document>
