<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06T7/00,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOOVER, JASON
TANG, QIAOCHU
DAGLEY, GEOFFREY
PRICE, MICAH
GHAMSARI, AVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72241808
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for automated trade-in with limited human interaction
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects described herein may facilitate an automated trade-in of a vehicle with limited human interaction. A server may receive a request to begin a value determination of a vehicle associated with the user. The server may receive first data comprising: vehicle-specific identifying information, and multimedia content showing a first aspect of the vehicle. The user may be directed to place the vehicle within a predetermined staging area. The server may receive, from one or more image sensors associated with the staging area, second data comprising multimedia content showing a second aspect of the vehicle. The server may create a feature vector comprising the first data and the second data. The feature vector may be inputted into a machine learning algorithm corresponding to the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle. Based on the machine learning algorithm, the server may determine a value of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a first computing device comprising: one or more first processors; and a first memory storing first instructions that, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: receive, from a mobile device, a request to begin a value determination of a vehicle; receive, from the mobile device, a first data comprising: vehicle-specific identifying information, and multimedia content showing a first aspect of the vehicle associated with a user; determine, based on a feedback from one or more image sensors of a second computing device, that the vehicle associated with the user is within a predetermined area; receive, from the one or more image sensors, second data comprising multimedia content showing a second aspect of the vehicle; create a feature vector comprising the first data and the second data; input the feature vector into a machine learning algorithm corresponding to the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle; and determine, based on the machine learning algorithm, a value of the vehicle; and the second computing device comprising: the one or more image sensors; one or more second processors; and a second memory storing second instructions that, when executed by the one or more second processors, cause the second computing device to: detect, using the one or more image sensors, that the vehicle associated with the user is within the predetermined area; send, to the first computing device, the feedback that the vehicle associated with the user is within the predetermined area; capture, using the one or more image sensors, the multimedia content showing the second aspect of the vehicle; and send, to the first computing device, the second data comprising the multimedia content showing the second aspect of the vehicle.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first instructions, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: after the receiving the first data, determine an initial estimate of the value of the vehicle associated with the user, and wherein the determined value of the vehicle associated with the user is further based on an adjustment of the initial estimate of the value of the vehicle associated with the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first instructions, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: prior to the inputting the feature vector into the machine learning algorithm, identify the machine learning algorithm based on the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first instructions, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: prior to the inputting the feature vector into the machine learning algorithm, train the machine learning algorithm using reference vehicle-specific identifying information and reference data of one or more aspects of a plurality of reference vehicles that are not associated with the user.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the training the machine learning algorithm further comprises: receiving, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles that are not associated with the user, reference vehicle-specific identifying information and reference data of one or more of the first aspect or the second aspect of a given reference vehicle of the plurality of reference vehicles; receiving, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, an actual value of the given reference vehicle; creating, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, a reference feature vector comprising the reference vehicle-specific identifying information and the reference data; associating, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, the reference feature vector to the actual value of the given reference vehicle; and training the machine learning algorithm using the associated reference feature vectors to predict the value of the vehicle associated with the user based on the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle, the first data, and the second data.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the first instructions, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: determine a predictability for each of the one or more aspects of the given reference vehicle for estimating the actual value of the reference vehicle; and assign, based on the determined predictability, a first weight to the first data and a second weight to the second data.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more image sensors are calibrated to produce the multimedia content based on a degree of illumination within the predetermined area or a time within a diurnal cycle.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first aspect comprises one or more of: an exterior region of the vehicle associated with the user, an interior region of the vehicle associated with the user, a damage to an exterior or interior region of the vehicle associated with the user, dusting of an exterior region of the vehicle associated with the user, or a weather-related or environmental impact on the vehicle associated with the user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle-specific identifying information comprises one or more of: a year of manufacture of the vehicle associated with the user, a make of the vehicle associated with the user, a model of the vehicle associated with the user, a class of the vehicle associated with the user, a vehicle type of the vehicle associated with the user, a color of the vehicle associated with the user, or a mileage of the vehicle associated with the user.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle-specific identifying information comprises one or more of: a vehicle registration plate identification of the vehicle associated with the user, a vehicle identification number (VIN) associated with the vehicle associated with the user, or a driver license identification associated with the vehicle associated with the user.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the first instructions, when executed by the one or more first processors, cause the first computing device to: prior to the determining that the vehicle associated with the user is within the predetermined area, send, to the mobile device, an indication comprising a request to place the vehicle associated with the user within the predetermined area; and prior to the receiving the first data, prompt the mobile device to send the first data.
12. A method comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, a request to begin a value determination of a vehicle associated with a user; receiving, from the mobile device, a first data comprising: vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user, and multimedia content showing a first aspect of the vehicle associated with the user; determining, based on feedback from one or more image sensors, that the vehicle is within a predetermined area; receiving, from the one or more image sensors, second data comprising multimedia content showing a second aspect of the vehicle; creating a feature vector comprising the first data and the second data; inputting the feature vector into a machine learning algorithm corresponding to the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user; determining, using the machine learning algorithm, a value of the vehicle associated with the user based on the first data and the second data; and sending, to the mobile device, an indication of the determined value of the vehicle associated with the user.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: after the receiving the first data, determining an initial estimate of the value of the vehicle associated with the user, and wherein the determining the value of the vehicle is further based on an adjustment of the initial estimate of the value of the vehicle associated with the user.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: prior to the inputting the feature vector into the machine learning algorithm, identifying the machine learning algorithm based on the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising, prior to the inputting the feature vector into the machine learning algorithm, training the machine learning algorithm using reference vehicle-specific identifying information and reference data of one or more aspects of a plurality of reference vehicles that are not associated with the user.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the training the machine learning algorithm further comprises: receiving, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles that are not associated with the user, reference vehicle-specific identifying information and reference data of one or more of the first aspect of a given reference vehicle of the plurality of reference vehicles or the second aspect of the given reference vehicle of the plurality of reference vehicles; receiving, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, an actual value of the given reference vehicle; creating, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, a reference feature vector comprising the reference vehicle-specific identifying information and the reference data; associating, for each of the plurality of reference vehicles, the reference feature vector to the actual value of the given reference vehicle; and training the machine learning algorithm using the associated reference feature vectors to predict the value of the vehicle associated with the user based on the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle, the first data, and the second data.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising, determining a predictability for each of the one or more aspects of the reference vehicle for estimating the actual value of the given reference vehicle; and assigning, based on the determined predictability, a first weight to the first data and a second weight to the second data.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more image sensors are calibrated to produce the multimedia content based on a degree of illumination within the predetermined area or a time within a diurnal cycle.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: prior to the determining that the vehicle associated with the user is within the predetermined area, sending, to the mobile device, an indication comprising a request to place the vehicle associated with the user within the predetermined area; and prior to the receiving the first data, prompting the mobile device to send the first data.
20. One or more non-transitory media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform steps comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, a request to begin a value determination of a vehicle associated with a user; prompting the mobile device to send a first data comprising: vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user, and multimedia content showing a first aspect of the vehicle associated with the user; receiving, from the mobile device, the first data; sending, to the mobile device, an indication comprising a request to place the vehicle associated with the user within a predetermined area determining, based on feedback from one or more image sensors, that the vehicle associated with the user is within the predetermined area; receiving, from the one or more image sensors, second data comprising multimedia content showing a second aspect of the vehicle associated with the user; creating a feature vector comprising the first data and second data; identifying a machine learning algorithm corresponding to the vehicle-specific identifying information of the vehicle associated with the user; inputting the feature vector into the identified machine learning algorithm to determine a value of the vehicle associated with the user; and sending, to the mobile device, an indication of the value of the vehicle associated with the user.
</claims>
</document>
