<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q50/30,G08G5/00,G08G5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
MACEK,KAREL
KADIKE, MAKSOOD MOIDIN
ANTONINI, ANDREA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63442387
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Aircraft stand management
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, devices, and systems for aircraft stand management are described herein. One device includes a memory, and a processor to execute executable instructions stored in the memory to receive information associated with arriving and departing flights at an airport, determine, using the received information, whether a conflict exists at a parking stand of the airport assigned to an aircraft, generate, using the received information, an airfield parking stand analysis, including a time chart for the parking stand and a list of different parking stands to assign to the aircraft in response to a conflict existing at the parking stand, and a user interface to display the airfield parking stand analysis in a single integrated display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device for aircraft stand management, comprising: a memory; a processor configured to execute executable instructions stored in the memory to: determine, using information associated with arriving and departing flights at an airport, whether a conflict exists at a parking stand of the airport assigned to an aircraft; generate, using the information, an airfield parking stand analysis, including: a list of different parking stands to assign to the aircraft in response to a conflict existing at the parking stand; and an assignment security impact analysis for the parking stand including security checkpoint details for the airport, wherein in response to a reassignment of the aircraft from the parking stand to a parking stand included in the list of different parking stands, the security checkpoint details include a recommendation for a number of security checkpoints that should be opened; and a user interface configured to display the airfield parking stand analysis in a single integrated display.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein in response to the reassignment of the aircraft from the parking stand to the parking stand included in the list of different parking stands, the security checkpoint details include a time per passenger at each security checkpoint that is open.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein in response to the reassignment of the aircraft from the parking stand to the parking stand included in the list of different parking stands, the security checkpoint details include a time a closed security checkpoint should be opened.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein in response to the reassignment of the aircraft from the parking stand to the parking stand included in the list of different parking stands, the security checkpoint details include a number of security checkpoints that are currently open.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to re-assign the aircraft from the parking stand to a different parking stand included in the list of different parking stands in response to the conflict existing at the parking stand.
6. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to, in response to re-assigning the aircraft from the parking stand to the different parking stand, re-assign a different aircraft assigned to the different one of the parking stands to the parking stand.
7. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the airfield parking stand analysis includes a time chart for the parking stand.
8. The computing device of claim 1, wherein a conflict exists at the parking stand in response to a size of the aircraft assigned to the parking stand being incompatible with a size restriction of the parking stand.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium having computer readable instructions stored thereon that are executable by a processor to: determine, using information associated with arriving and departing flights at an airport, whether a conflict exists at a parking stand of the airport assigned to an aircraft; generate, using the information, an airfield parking stand analysis, including: a prioritized list of different parking stands to assign to the aircraft in response to a conflict existing at the parking stand; and an assignment security impact analysis for the parking stand including security checkpoint details for the airport; assign, based on the airfield parking stand analysis, the aircraft to a different parking stand included in the list of different parking stands in response to the conflict existing at the parking stand, wherein in response to the assignment of the aircraft to the different parking stand, the security checkpoint details include a time per passenger at each security checkpoint that is open; and display, via a user interface, the airfield parking stand analysis in a single integrated display.
10. The computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the assignment security impact analysis for the parking stand includes video of a security checkpoint of the airport.
11. The computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the assignment security impact analysis for the parking stand includes a passenger flow indicator for the airport that shows a flow of passengers through a security checkpoint of the airport.
12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions executable by the processor to display, via the user interface, color coding in response to a time per passenger in the flow of passengers through the security checkpoint exceeding a threshold amount of time.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the airfield parking stand analysis includes an assignment penalty analysis for the parking stand including: details of the different parking stands; and penalties associated with the details of the different parking stands.
14. A computer implemented method for aircraft stand management, comprising: determining, by a computing device using information associated with arriving and departing flights at an airport, whether a conflict exists at a parking stand of the airport assigned to an aircraft; generating, by the computing device using the information, an airfield parking stand analysis including an assignment security impact analysis for the parking stand including security checkpoint details for the airport; assigning, by the computing device based on the airfield parking stand analysis, the aircraft to a different parking stand in response to the conflict existing at the parking stand, wherein in response to the assignment of the aircraft to the different parking stand, the security checkpoint details include a time a closed security checkpoint should be opened; and displaying, on a user interface of the computing device, the airfield parking stand analysis in a single integrated display.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method includes sending, by the computing device via messaging options included in the assignment security impact analysis, a message to open or close a security checkpoint.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein sending the message includes sending a predefined message to open or close the security checkpoint.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein sending the message includes sending a custom message to open or close the security checkpoint.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the method includes highlighting and displaying, by the computing device on the user interface, a prioritized list of different parking stands including the different parking stand to assign to the aircraft in response to a conflict existing at the parking stand.
</claims>
</document>
