<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q9/00,G01C21/36,G01S19/13,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEPOMUCENO, JOHN A.
MYERS, JEREMY
CIELOCHA, STEVEN
LEISE, WILLIAM J.
CRAWFORD, JENNIFER L.
GAUDIN, KRISTOPHER KEITH
SHAH, RAJIV C.
LYONS, ROXANE
KELLETT, JENNIFER CRISWELL
MATESEVAC, III, EDWARD P.
MEGYESE, MATTHEW S.
CHAN, LEO NELSON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73823500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Collision risk-based engagement and disengagement of autonomous control of a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods relate to, inter alia, calculating a collision risk index for an area based upon historical traffic data. The systems and methods may further generate a notification to automatically engage or disengage an autonomous, or semi-autonomous, vehicle control feature in a vehicle based upon the collision risk index for the area. The systems and methods may further transmit the notification to a device of the vehicle to facilitate automatically engaging or disengaging an autonomous, or semi-autonomous, vehicle control feature in the vehicle as the vehicle approaches the area. As a result, vehicle collisions may be reduced, and vehicle safety enhanced.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, carried out by a server, of reducing vehicle collisions, the method comprising: calculating, by one or more processors, a number of expected collisions in an area over a time period; determining, by the one or more processors, a number of observed collisions in the area over the time period; calculating, by one or more processors of the server, a collision risk index for the area, wherein the collision risk index is a comparison result between the number of expected collisions and the number of observed collisions; generating, by the one or more processors of the server, a notification to automatically engage or disengage an autonomous vehicle control feature in a vehicle based upon the collision risk index for the area; and transmitting, via a transceiver of the server, the notification to a device of the vehicle to facilitate automatically engaging or disengaging the autonomous vehicle control feature in the vehicle as the vehicle approaches the area, wherein the device comprises at least one of a mobile device, an on-board computer, or a navigator.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processors, that the collision risk index for the area exceeds a predetermined threshold; wherein the generating of the notification is based on the collision risk index exceeding the predetermined threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the number of observed collisions in the area over the time period comprises at least one of: determining, by the one or more processors, the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle damages above a first predetermined threshold; determining, by the one or more processors, the number of observed collisions in the area associated with personal injuries above a second predetermined threshold; or determining, by the one or more processors, the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle repairs above a third predetermined threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the notification to automatically engage or disengage the autonomous vehicle control feature is further based upon: determining, by the one or more processors, whether the autonomous vehicle control feature was engaged or disengaged in the vehicle or other vehicles in the area based upon historical traffic data.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the transceiver, an indication that the vehicle engaged or disengaged the autonomous vehicle control feature as the vehicle approached the area; and adjusting, by the one or more processors, an insurance premium in response to the indication.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification further comprises at least one of a virtual navigation map configured to be displayed depicting the collision risk index visually, an audible alert, a visual alert, or a haptic alert.
7. A server configured to reduce vehicle collisions, the server comprising: a memory configured to store non-transitory computer executable instructions; a processor configured to interface with the memory, wherein the processor is configured to execute the non-transitory computer executable instructions to cause the processor to: calculating a number of expected collisions in an area over a time period; determining a number of observed collisions in the area over the time period; calculate a collision risk index for the area, wherein the collision risk index is a comparison result between the number of expected collisions and the number of observed collisions; and generate a notification to automatically engage or disengage an autonomous vehicle control feature in a vehicle based upon the collision risk index for the area; and a transceiver configured to interface with the processor and communicate via a wireless network connection, wherein the transceiver is configured to transmit the notification to a device of the vehicle to facilitate automatically engaging or disengaging the autonomous vehicle control feature in the vehicle as the vehicle approaches the area, wherein the device comprises at least one of a mobile device, an on-board computer, or a navigator.
8. The server of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that the collision risk index for the area exceeds a predetermined threshold; and wherein the processor is configured to generate the notification based upon the collision risk index exceeding the predetermined threshold.
9. The server of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to determine the number of observed collisions in the area over the time period by at least one of: determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle damages above a first predetermined threshold; determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with personal injuries above a second predetermined threshold; or determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle repairs above a third predetermined threshold.
10. The server of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to generate the notification based upon determining whether the autonomous vehicle control feature was engaged or disengaged in the vehicle or other vehicles in the area based upon historical traffic data.
11. The server of claim 7, wherein the transceiver is configured to receive an indication that the vehicle engaged or disengaged the autonomous vehicle control feature as the vehicle approached the area; and wherein the processor is configured to adjust an insurance premium in response to the indication.
12. The server of claim 7, wherein the notification further comprises at least one of a virtual navigation map configured to be displayed depicting the collision risk index visually, an audible alert, a visual alert, or a haptic alert.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing a set of computer readable instructions for reducing vehicle collisions that when executed by a server configure the server to: calculate, by a processor of the server, a number of expected collisions in the area over a time period; determine, by the processor of the server, a number of observed collisions in the area over the time period; calculate, by the processor of the server, a collision risk index for the area, wherein the collision risk index is a comparison result between the number of expected collisions and the number of observed collisions; generate, by the processor of the server, a notification to automatically engage or disengage an autonomous vehicle control feature in a vehicle based upon the collision risk index for the area; and transmit, by a transceiver of the server, the notification to a device of the vehicle to facilitate automatically engaging or disengaging the autonomous vehicle control feature in the vehicle as the vehicle approaches the area, wherein the device comprises at least one of a mobile device, an on-board computer, or a navigator.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that the collision risk index for the area exceeds a predetermined threshold; and wherein the processor is configured to generate the notification based upon the collision risk index exceeding the predetermined threshold.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to determine the number of observed collisions in the area over the time period by at least one of: determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle damages above a first predetermined threshold; determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with personal injuries above a second predetermined threshold; or determining the number of observed collisions in the area associated with vehicle repairs above a third predetermined threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to generate the notification based upon determining whether the autonomous vehicle control feature was engaged or disengaged in the vehicle or other vehicles in the area based upon historical traffic data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the transceiver is configured to receive an indication that the vehicle engaged or disengaged the autonomous vehicle control feature as the vehicle approached the area; and wherein the processor is configured to adjust an insurance premium in response to the indication.
</claims>
</document>
