<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R25/102,B60R25/24,B60R25/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUGMENTED RADAR IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHTROM, VICTOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408294
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Preventive action based on estimated intent
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device that selectively performs a preventive action is described. During operation, the electronic device may acquire, using one or more sensors, a measurement in an environment that is external to the electronic device, where the measurement provides information associated with an object, and the measurement is a non-contact measurement. Then, the electronic device may detect the object based at least in part on the measurement. Moreover, the electronic device may estimate an intent of the object based at least in part on the measurement. Next, when the estimated intent is associated with a type of adverse event, the electronic device may perform the preventive action prior to an occurrence of the type of adverse event, where the preventive action reduces a probability of the occurrence of the type of adverse event or an amount of financial damage associated with the occurrence of the type of adverse event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device, comprising: one or more sensors, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more of: a radar sensor, a first optical sensor configured to acquire information in a visible band of frequencies, or a second optical sensor configured to acquire information in an infrared band of frequencies; an integrated circuit, coupled to the one or more sensors, configured to: acquire, using the one or more sensors, a measurement in an environment that is external to the electronic device, wherein the measurement provides information associated with an object, and wherein the measurement comprises a non-contact measurement; detect the object based at least in part on the measurement; estimate an intent of the object based at least in part on the measurement; and when the estimated intent is associated with a type of adverse event, perform a preventive action prior to an occurrence of the type of adverse event, wherein the preventive action reduces a probability of the occurrence of the type of adverse event or an amount of financial damage associated with the occurrence of the type of adverse event.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprises a transmitter configured to transmit wireless signals and a receiver configured to receive wireless-return signals.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise two or more different types of sensors and the measurement is acquired using the two or more different types of sensors.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a person and the integrated circuit is configured to identify the person; and wherein the intent is estimated based at least in part on the identity of the person.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a person having an unknown identity; and wherein the intent is estimated based at least in part on an association of the person with one or more prior occurrences of the type of adverse event in an event history.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the type of adverse event comprises: theft, property damage, or another type of crime.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the measurement is acquired using a first sensor in the one or more sensors; and wherein the preventive action comprises acquiring, using a second sensor in the one or more sensors, a second measurement that provides information associated with the object.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises a light source and the integrated circuit is coupled to the light source; and wherein the preventive action comprises selectively illuminating the object using the light source.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises an alarm and the integrated circuit is coupled to the alarm; and wherein the preventive action comprises selectively activating the alarm.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the preventive action comprises providing information about the object addressed to a law enforcement agency or contacting a law enforcement agency.
11. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises a lock and the integrated circuit is coupled to the lock; and wherein the preventive action comprises: determining a state of the lock; when the lock is in an unlocked state, providing an electronic signal that sets the lock into a locked state; and disabling an ability to change the state of the lock.
12. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises a vehicle; and wherein the preventive action comprises disabling movement of the vehicle.
13. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device comprises a battery coupled to the integrated circuit; and wherein the integrated circuit is configured to perform at least one of the acquiring, the detecting, the estimating and the performing using a dynamic subset of resources in the electronic device based at least in part on a discharge current of the battery, a remaining charge of the battery, or both.
14. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a person and the intent is estimated based at least in part on an inferred emotional state of the person or a behavior of the person.
15. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the measurement provides information associated with a second object that is related to the object, the integrated circuit is configured to identify the second object, and the intent is estimated based at least in part on the identified second object.
16. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a person and the estimated intent is based at least in part on a vital sign of the person, which is specified by the measurement.
17. A vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more of: a radar sensor, a first optical sensor configured to acquire information in a visible band of frequencies, or a second optical sensor configured to acquire information in an infrared band of frequencies; an integrated circuit, coupled to the one or more sensors, configured to: acquire, using the one or more sensors, a measurement in an environment that is external to the vehicle, wherein the measurement provides information associated with an object, and wherein the measurement comprises a non-contact measurement; detect the object based at least in part on the measurement; estimate an intent of the object based at least in part on the measurement; and when the estimated intent is associated with a type of adverse event, perform a preventive action prior to an occurrence of the type of adverse event, wherein the preventive action reduces a probability of the occurrence of the type of adverse event or an amount of financial damage associated with the occurrence of the type of adverse event.
18. The vehicle of claim 17, wherein the object comprises a person and the intent is estimated based at least in part on an inferred emotional state of the person or a behavior of the person.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for use in conjunction with an electronic device, the computer-readable storage medium storing program instructions, wherein, when executed by the computer system, the program instructions cause the computer system to perform one or more operations comprising: acquiring, using one or more sensors, a measurement in an environment that is external to the electronic device, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more of: a radar sensor, a first optical sensor configured to acquire information in a visible band of frequencies, or a second optical sensor configured to acquire information in an infrared band of frequencies, wherein the measurement provides information associated with an object, and wherein the measurement comprises a non-contact measurement; detecting the object based at least in part on the measurement; estimating an intent of the object based at least in part on the measurement; and when the estimated intent is associated with a type of adverse event, performing a preventive action prior to an occurrence of the type of adverse event, wherein the preventive action reduces a probability of the occurrence of the type of adverse event or an amount of financial damage associated with the occurrence of the type of adverse event.
20. A method for performing a preventive action by an electronic device, comprising: acquiring, using one or more sensors, a measurement in an environment that is external to the electronic device, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more of: a radar sensor, a first optical sensor configured to acquire information in a visible band of frequencies, or a second optical sensor configured to acquire information in an infrared band of frequencies, wherein the measurement provides information associated with an object, and wherein the measurement comprises a non-contact measurement; detecting the object based at least in part on the measurement; estimating an intent of the object based at least in part on the measurement; and when the estimated intent is associated with a type of adverse event, performing the preventive action prior to an occurrence of the type of adverse event, wherein the preventive action reduces a probability of the occurrence of the type of adverse event or an amount of financial damage associated with the occurrence of the type of adverse event.
</claims>
</document>
