<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/22,G06Q50/26,G16H40/67,H04L29/06,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/60,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMERGENCY UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRAUN, ODELIA
BRAUN, DORON
JOHNSTON, ANDREW RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52006314
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Emergency response augmented reality-based notification
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the invention leverage mobile proliferation to enable laypersons to initiate a timely and effective emergency response in case of an emergency, such as a medical emergency, e.g., cardiac event. Mobile apps are made available as part of an organization's overall response plan and program, allowing bystanders of emergency events to easily initiate notifications, for example to trained responders, for example in their facility, in a timely manner commensurate with the type of emergency specific to their facility. More particularly, embodiments of the invention use mobile applications to provide augmented reality-based alerts and notifications, for example to certified first trainees to respond to the scene of the emergency.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for routing communications signals in response to an emergency, comprising: providing a processor executing instructions for receiving an input signal comprising an initial notification transmitted by a person at or near said emergency and indicating that there is an emergency; independently of a central emergency medical services (EMS) notification system, said processor receiving said input signal and extracting therefrom content from said initial notification comprising identification of a specific location of said emergency and identification of said emergency type; said processor applying rules to said extracted content to identify any one or more of type of emergency, role of responder, required equipment, organizational capabilities, and organizational structure; said processor further applying said rules to said extracted content to identify one or more members of an emergency response team at or near said emergency who are trained for said emergency; said processor further automatically identifying from among said identified one or more members of said emergency response team at or near said emergency those who are most qualified to respond to said emergency based upon the type of said emergency, and prioritizing said identified most qualified one or more members of said emergency response team at or near said emergency based upon their training and preparation; responsive to said application of said rules, said processor generating an output signal; and independently of said central emergency medical services (EMS) notification system, said processor applying said output signal to generate a prioritized alert signal for transmission directly to one or more members of said emergency response team at or near said emergency based upon the quality of said one or more members of said emergency response team training and preparation, said alert comprising said emergency type and said emergency location, said alert further comprising the display of a dynamic map identifying and displaying any of the location of any of work force personnel, trained responders, emergency equipment, exit doors, and visual dynamic directions to a nearest exit.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: when geolocation is available, said processor using emergency event geolocation and dynamically comparing said emergency event geolocation with location of appropriately trained members of said emergency response team; and when geolocation is not available said processor using pre-configured location data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor applying further rules to identify location and operational status of emergency equipment, when available and applicable, based on parameters that include most recent confirmation of geolocation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor receiving a confirming response from members of said emergency response team who respond to said alert; and said processor providing a notification to a designated person in charge indicating receipt of said notification from said members of said emergency response team who respond to said alert.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor using multiple real-time notification channels to immediately communicate between said person, said designated person in charge, said one or more members of said emergency response team, and other affected persons.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to any of said initial notification and said content, said processor providing a person in charge, one or more members of an emergency response team, and other affected persons with instructions comprising any of specific text-based, graphic, video, and voice instructions on actions to perform in response to said emergency.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor providing communication and activity tracking of all communications and times at which actions are taken.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor customizing said rules to provide said person in charge, one or more members of said emergency response team, and other affected persons to provide instructions in connection with said emergency for an emergency event lifecycle.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor applying said rules to provide direct notification to 911, or equivalent thereof, of said emergency.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said rules comprise any of training level, certification, competency, and proximity.
11. The method of claim 2, further comprising: said processor receiving geolocation information for emergency equipment, when available and applicable, and confirmation that said emergency equipment is operational.
12. The method of claim 4, further comprising: said emergency comprising a sudden cardiac arrest (SCA); and any of said processor using geo-location to identify said members of said emergency response team based on their location when providing said confirming response; said processor providing identification of AEDs based upon said rules, proximity, and operational readiness when data is available; said processor providing notifications to said members of said emergency response team identifying a nearest AEDs prioritized by said rules and proximity; and said processor providing communication and activity tracking of any of time a member of said emergency response team arrived, if and when an RED is attached, and when an EMS arrived.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor communicating pertinent rules to said designated person in charge, said one or more members of said emergency response team, and other affected persons, based on pertinent rules for participant profile.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor exchanging information with affected persons comprising any of notification to evacuate, where to evacuate to, confirmation of receipt of notification by workforce, evacuation from building confirmation, arrival at assembly point confirmation, and notification in connection with individual workforce members who have issued a distress notification.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: said processor providing a person in charge with aggregate, continually updated reports of individuals who have successfully evacuated by points of evacuation; receipt of notification, including geolocation; evacuation from building, with new geolocation; and arrival at assembly point by geolocation.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor providing an incident commander with distress notifications from affected persons.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said person in charge triaging said distress notifications to security and emergency response team members among said members of said emergency response team.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor providing an incident commander with notifications comprising aggregate, continually updated reports of a distressed person's status.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: identifying evacuation exits with a transmitted signal to direct affected persons to a nearest exit.
20. The method of claim 19, said signal comprising any of Wi-Fi-based IP addresses, Bluetooth, radio, satellite, pre-placed transmission equipment proximate to said exits, Wi-Fi-based signals transmitted from exit doors at said exits, Wi-Fi signals from a nearest router.
21. The method of claim 15, further comprising: locating non-evacuating personnel with a transmitted signal.
22. The method of claim 21, said signal comprising any of Wi-Fi-based IP addresses, Bluetooth, radio, satellite, pre-placed transmission equipment proximate to said exits, Wi-Fi-based signals, or other signals transmitted from exit doors at said exits, Wi-Fi signals from a nearest router, said signal further comprising instructions in any of text and graphic format to said non-evacuating personnel directing them to a nearest exit.
23. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor providing any of coded or time-limited coded drills for designated members of said emergency response team, or classes and non-coded, facility wide drills to simulate actual emergencies.
24. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor tracking and reporting all communications and actions of each emergency incident lifecycle.
25. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor incorporating time-based prompts to ensure necessary individuals are notified, and necessary actions are timely performed for a duration of an incident lifecycle.
26. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor ascertaining whether an affected person whose cell phone is turned on is still at or near said emergency if said affected person has not confirmed receipt of a notification.
27. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor informing said person how many members of said emergency response team have been notified.
28. The method of claim 1, further comprising: said processor applying rules to identify an individual having known disabilities, as specified during said individual's registration; and said processor issuing a pre-configured distress signal during an evacuation with specific instructions for said members of said emergency response team and location of nearest appropriate equipment based upon the disabilities of the individual, when available or appropriate to assist said individual as necessary to ensure they are able to evacuate said individual.
29. A computer implemented method for routing communications signals in response to an emergency, comprising: providing a processor for receiving an input signal comprising an initial notification transmitted by a person at a location and indicating that there is an emergency at said location; independently of a central emergency medical services (EMS) notification system, said processor extracting content from said signal comprising identification of a specific location of said emergency and identification of said emergency type; said processor using said extracted content to identify laypersons at or near said location who are trained responders for said emergency and who are most qualified to respond to said emergency based upon the type of said emergency; said processor prioritizing said identified most qualified trained responders based upon their training and qualification; independently of said central emergency medical services (EMS) notification system, said processor transmitting a prioritized alert directly to at least said identified most qualified trained responders comprising said emergency type and said emergency location; and said alert further comprising the display of a dynamic map identifying and displaying any of the location of any of work force personnel, trained responders, emergency equipment, exit doors, and visual dynamic directions to a nearest exit.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising generating said dynamic map by: creating a map for said location to augment a display feature by: procuring an image, file, map, or other representation of all or part of a facility; when an image or file is procured tracing said image into discernible vectors for extraction of required data; extracting dimensions at said location of exterior walls, interior walls, and fixed objects; translating said extracted dimensions to a representative coordinate; and inputting said representative coordinate system data into a database; locating sensors and/or physical objects on said map and installing or Integrating said sensors or physical objects by: installing physical sensors or objects in or around said location at designated positions; inputting one or more sensor locations into said database; establishing horizontal and vertical planes attached to floors, walls, and fixed objects at said location; and placing digital markers at points divergent points, including points that require a change of direction, an elevator, or that are an end-point in a route; and/or integrating with existing physical sensors and/or physical objects; and establishing routes to or away from said emergency location.
</claims>
</document>
