<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06N20/00,H03K17/94
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
DARTMOUTH COLLEGE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, YANG
ZHOU, XIA
GONG, JUN
YANG, XING-DONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66097601
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Infrared-based gesture sensing and detection systems, and apparatuses, software, and methods relating to same
</title>

<abstract>
An infrared (IR)-based gesture sensing and detection system that includes at least one IR sensor for sensing micro gestures of one or more heat-radiating bodies made within a gesture-sensing region located proximate to the IR sensor. Each unique micro gesture may be used as a control gesture for controlling one or more controllable devices. Non-limiting examples of controllable devices include smart wearable device, handheld computing devices, and smart appliances, among many others. In some embodiments, each IR sensor is a passive IR sensor based on a pyroelectric material, and the IR-based gesture sensing and detection system is configured to consume minimal power to operate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: at least one passive infrared (PR) sensor configured and positioned to define a gesture-sensing region in free space proximate to the at least one PIR sensor, wherein the at least one PIR sensor includes circuitry that generates a gesture-response signal in response to the at least one PIR sensor sensing a micro gesture made with a heat-radiating object within the gesture-sensing region; processing circuitry configured to extract a plurality of features from the gesture-response signal generated in response to the micro gesture; compare the plurality of extracted features to corresponding features of a plurality of predetermined control gestures so as to determine whether or not the plurality of extracted features of the micro gesture matches a particular control gesture of the plurality of predetermined control gestures, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to execute a machine-learning algorithm that classifies the plurality of extracted features of the micro gesture among the plurality of predetermined control gestures; and when determining that the micro gesture matches the particular control gesture, generate an indication that corresponds uniquely to the particular control gesture matched.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the PIR sensor comprises a pyroelectric material for sensing heat from the heat-radiating object.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the heat-radiating object is a human digit, and the at least one PR sensor is tuned to sense IR radiation emitted by the human digit.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a controllable device responsive to the indication so that the controllable device operates in a predetermined way in response to the indication.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the controllable device comprises a visual display and the indication controls the controllable device to effect what the visual display displays.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the controllable device comprises a wearable electronic device wearable by a person.
7. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the controllable device comprises a computing device.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the computing device comprises a handheld computing device.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the PIR sensor has a central sensing axis, and the gesture-sensing region extends no more than about 40 cm from the PIR sensor along the central sensing axis.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the gesture-sensing region extends no more than about 30 cm from the PIR sensor along the central sensing axis.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the gesture-sensing region extends no more than about 10 cm from the PIR sensor along the central sensing axis.
12. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the PIR sensor includes a lens having a focal length selected to limit the gesture-sensing region to extend no more than the about 40 cm along the central axis.
13. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the machine-learning algorithm comprises a Random Forest algorithm.
14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the the processing circuitry is further configured to execute a feature-extraction algorithm that extracts the plurality of features from the gesture-response signal to create the plurality of extracted features wherein the machine-learning algorithm classifies the plurality of extracted features of the micro gesture based on the plurality of extracted features.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to extract the plurality of extracted features, which include frequency-domain features.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the feature-extraction algorithm extracts at least 10 time-domain features and at least 10 frequency-domain features.
17. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the PIR sensor has only one lens and the lens is a single-zone lens.
18. A method of controlling a controllable device responsive to a micro gesture made by a user with at least one heat-radiating object, the method comprising: sensing occurrence of the micro gesture using at least one passive infrared (PIR) sensor so as to generate a gesture-response signal; extracting a plurality of features from the gesture-response signal generated in response to the micro gesture; comparing the plurality of extracted features to corresponding features of a plurality of predetermined control gestures so as to determine whether or not the plurality of extracted features of the micro gesture matches a particular control gesture of the plurality of predetermined control gestures, wherein the comparing step comprises classifying the plurality of extracted features of the micro gesture among the plurality of predetermined control gestures using a machine-learning algorithm; and when determining that the micro gesture matches the particular control gesture, generating an indication that corresponds uniquely to the particular control gesture matched.
19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: communicating the indication to the controllable device; and controlling the controllable device based on the indication.
20. The method according to claim 18, wherein the sensing of the occurrence of the micro gesture occurs when the micro gesture is performed within 40 cm of the PIR sensor along a central sensing axis of the PIR sensor.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the sensing of the occurrence of the micro gesture occurs when the micro gesture is performed within 20 cm of the PIR sensor along the central sensing axis.
22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the sensing of the occurrence of the micro gesture occurs when the micro gesture is performed within 10 cm of the PIR sensor along the central sensing axis.
23. The method according to claim 18, wherein the step of extracting the plurality of features includes extracting at least 10 time-domain features and at least 10 frequency-domain features.
24. The method according to claim 18, wherein the machine-learning algorithm includes a Random Forest algorithm.
25. The method of claim 18, further comprising training, using training data, the machine-learning algorithm to classify the plurality of extracted features, prior to performing the classifying step.
</claims>
</document>
