<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/08,H04L9/32,H04L9/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANALOG DEVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
POO, TZE LEI
AHMAD, SADAF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66336558
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Efficient delay-based PUF implementation using optimal racing strategy
</title>

<abstract>
According to various aspects, a delay-based physical unclonable function (PUF) device is provided. According to one embodiment, the PUF device includes circuitry for generating output bits of entropy by comparing, or "racing", a plurality of PUF cells. A PUF cell is a building block of the PUF device. For example, the PUF device may include two identically designed circuits with only process related variations and each circuit can be a PUF cell. According to another aspect, if PUF cells with same history of winning or losing are being compared in a race, adversaries cannot predict the outcome of the current race based on previous race results. Accordingly, systems and methods are described herein for generating multiple rounds of races based on the previous rounds of races. Thus, one PUF cell can be used in multiple pairwise comparisons while maximal entropy is extracted.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating entropy in a physical unclonable function (PUF) encoding, the method comprising: assigning by at least one processor, in a first round, first pairings of respective ones of a plurality of PUF cells; generating, in the first round, respective first outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determining results for the first round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings generates a first output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings; assigning, in a second round subsequent to the first round, second pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round; generating, in the second round, respective second outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determining results for the second round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings generates a second output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings; and generating a PUF output based on the results of the first round and the results of the second round.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising obfuscating a secret using the PUF output.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each PUF cell, of the plurality of PUF cells, comprises one of a plurality of identically designed circuits with differences stemming from manufacturing process variations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning, in a second round subsequent to the first round, second pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round comprises: assigning pairings of the respective winners of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairing; and assigning pairings of the remaining PUF cells that were not winners in the first pairing.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning, in a third round subsequent to the second round, third pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round and the second round, wherein each PUF cell of the plurality of PUF cells is paired with a PUF cell of the plurality of PUF cells having been the winner of an equal number of rounds; and generating, in the third round, respective third outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determining a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the third pairings.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a first winner of a first pair in a previous round is paired with a second winner of a second pair in the previous round.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising assigning additional rounds of PUF cell pairings based on the results of previous rounds by: grouping, into a plurality of groups, PUF cells that have been paired in a previous round; and pairing each PUF cell in a first group with a respective PUF cell in a second group.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a bit representing the winner of each pair of PUF cells in each round, wherein a winner of a pair of PUF cells is associated with an output of a binary comparison of respective outputs of each PUF cell in the pair, and further wherein the pairings of the first round and the second round generate a number of bits of entropy equal to the number of PUF cells.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising assigning additional rounds of pairings based on the results of previous rounds, wherein the total number of rounds is limited by the at least one processor to not exceed the binary logarithm of the number of PUF cells in the plurality of PUF cells.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises, applying, by the at least one processor, an error correcting code to the respective first outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells prior to the second round.
11. A system for generating entropy in a physical unclonable function (PUF) encoding, the system comprising: a plurality of PUF cells; and at least one processor configured to: assign, in a first round, first pairings of respective ones of a plurality of PUF cells; generate, in the first round, respective first outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determine results for the first round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings generates a first output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings; assign, in a second round subsequent to the first round, second pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round; generate, in the second round, respective second outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determine results for the second round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings generates a second output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings; and generate a PUF output based on the results of the first round and the results of the second round.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to obfuscate a secret using the PUF output.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein each PUF cell, of the plurality of PUF cells, comprises one of a plurality of identically designed circuits with differences stemming from manufacturing process variations.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein assigning, in a second round subsequent to the first round, second pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round comprises: assigning pairings of the respective winners of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairing; and assigning pairings of the remaining PUF cells that were not winners in the first pairing.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: assign, in a third round subsequent to the second round, third pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round and the second round, wherein each PUF cell of the plurality of PUF cells is paired with a PUF cell of the plurality of PUF cells having been the winner of an equal number of rounds; and generate, in the third round, respective third outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determine a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the third pairings.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein a first winner of a first pair in a previous round is paired with a second winner of a second pair in the previous round, and further wherein the at least one processor is further configured to apply an error correcting code to respective outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells prior to a current round.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to assign additional rounds of PUF cell pairings based on the results of previous rounds by: grouping, into a plurality of groups, PUF cells that have been paired in a previous round; and pairing each PUF cell in a first group with a respective PUF cell in a second group.
18. The system of claim 11, further comprising a binary comparator, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to generate a bit representing the winner of each pair of PUF cells in each round, wherein a winner of a pair of PUF cells is associated with an output of the binary comparator having compared respective outputs of each PUF cell in the pair, and further wherein the pairings of the first round and the second round generate a number of bits of entropy equal to the number of PUF cells.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to assign additional rounds of pairings based on the results of previous rounds, wherein the total number of rounds is limited by the at least one processor to not exceed the binary logarithm of the number of PUF cells in the plurality of PUF cells.
20. At least one non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to perform a method comprising: assigning, in a first round, first pairings of respective ones of a plurality of PUF cells; generating, in the first round, respective first outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determining results for the first round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings generates a first output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the first pairings; assigning, in a second round subsequent to the first round, second pairings of respective ones of the plurality of PUF cells based on the results of the first round; generating, in the second round, respective second outputs from each of the plurality of PUF cells and determining results for the second round including a winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings, wherein the winner for each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings is identified based on which respective PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings generates a second output prior to another PUF of each pair of PUF cells in the second pairings; and generating a PUF output based on the results of the first round and the results of the second round.
</claims>
</document>
