<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/04,G05B19/042,G05B19/05,G05B23/02,G06F3/048,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FISHER-ROSEMOUNT SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIAZ, SERGIO
LAW, GARY, K.
SHERRIFF, GODFREY R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57190237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for configuring separated monitor and effect blocks of a process control system
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for managing function blocks within a process control system for a process plant includes accessing an initial cause and effect matrix (CEM) having a set of causes and a set of effects. The system and method may then define a set of related groups within the initial CEM including: (i) accessing a set of rules associated with the set of related groups, (ii) identifying a portion of the set of causes that are related to a portion of the set of effects according to the set of rules and based on at least a portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs, and (iii) rearranging the portion of the set of causes and the portion of the set of effects such that the portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs are rearranged.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of managing safety logic within a process control system for a process plant, the method comprising: enabling a user to access an initial cause and effect matrix (CEM) having a set of causes and a set of effects, wherein each of the set of causes represents a condition within the process plant and each of the set of effects represents an effect to be performed within the process plant, and wherein at least some of the set of causes and the set of effects are related as cause-effect pairs whereby the corresponding effect is intended to activate in response to an occurrence of one or more corresponding causes; and defining a set of related groups within the initial CEM including, for each related group of the set of related groups: accessing a set of rules associated with the set of related groups, identifying a portion of the set of causes that are related to a portion of the set of effects according to the set of rules and based on at least a portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs, rearranging, based on the set of related groups, the portion of the set of causes and the portion of the set of effects such that the portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs are rearranged; and determining one of the set of related groups as a subset of the set of causes and a subset of the set of effects, wherein the subset of the set of causes or the subset of the set of effects of the one of the related groups is less than all of the set of causes or all of the set of effects; and creating one or more logic blocks to implement each of the determined defined sets of related groups.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein creating one or more logic blocks comprises: configuring one or more function blocks for the process control system according to the one or more logic blocks of each one of the sets of related groups.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that a specified portion of the set of effects must be within the same related group, and wherein identifying the portion of the set of causes that are related to the portion of the set of effects comprises: identifying the portion of the set of causes as those having the portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs with the specified portion of the set of effects.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that the portion of the set of causes must number a certain amount.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that each cause of the set of causes and each effect of the set of effects can only belong to a single related group of the set of related groups.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: for each related group of the set of related groups, automatically calculating at least one numerical representation for the related group according to the rearranged cause-effect pairs.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein automatically calculating the numerical representation for the related group comprises: automatically calculating a hexadecimal representation for the related group according to the rearranged cause-effect pairs.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: generating an overall cause and effect matrix (CEM) based on the numerical representation for each related group of the set of related groups.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: configuring one or more function blocks for the process control system according to the numerical representation of each of the set of related groups.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: for each of the set of related groups, comparing the numerical representation to a stored numerical representation; and based on the comparing, determining whether a set of discrepancies exists.
11. A system for managing safety logic within a process control system for a process plant, comprising: a memory configured to store (i) an initial cause and effect matrix (CEM) having a set of causes and a set of effects, wherein each of the set of causes represents a condition within the process plant and each of the set of effects represents an effect to be performed within the process plant, and wherein at least some of the set of causes and the set of effects are related as cause-effect pairs whereby the corresponding effect activates in response to an occurrence of one or more corresponding causes, and (ii) a set of rules; and an analysis module executed by a processor and configured to: access the initial CEM from the memory, and define a set of related groups within the initial CEM including, for each related group of the set of related groups: access, from the memory, the set of rules, identify a portion of the set of causes that are related to a portion of the set of effects according to the set of rules and based on at least a portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs, and rearrange, based on the set of related groups, the portion of the set of causes and the portion of the set of effects such that the portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs are rearranged, and determine one of the set of related groups as a subset of the set of causes and a subset of the set of effects, wherein the subset of the set of causes or the subset of the set of effects of the one of the related groups is less than all of the set of causes or all of the set of effects; and create one or more logic blocks to implement each of the determined defined sets of related groups.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a control system configuration module configured to configure one or more function blocks for the process control system according to the set of related groups.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that a specified portion of the set of effects must be within the same related group, and wherein to identify the portion of the set of causes that are related to the portion of the set of effects, the analysis module is configured to: identify the portion of the set of causes as those having the portion of the corresponding cause-effect pairs with the specified portion of the set of effects.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that the portion of the set of causes must number a certain amount, and wherein to identify the portion of the set of causes that are related to the portion of the set of effects, the analysis module is configured to: identify the portion of the set of causes that are related to the portion of the set of effects until the portion of the set of causes numbers the certain amount.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein a rule of the set of rules specifies that each cause of the set of causes and each effect of the set of effects can only belong to a single related group of the set of related groups.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the analysis module is further configured to: for each related group of the set of related groups, automatically calculate a numerical representation for the related group according to the rearranged cause-effect pairs.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein to automatically calculate the numerical representation for the related group, the analysis module is configured to: automatically calculate a hexadecimal representation for the related group according to the rearranged cause-effect pairs.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the analysis module is further configured to: generate an overall cause and effect matrix (CEM) based on the numerical representation for each related group of the set of related groups, and store the overall CEM in the memory.
19. The system of claim 16, further comprising: a control system configuration module configured to configure one or more function blocks for the process control system according to the numerical representation of each of the set of related groups.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the memory is further configured to store a set of design numerical representations, and wherein the analysis module is further configured to: for each of the set of related groups, compare the numerical representation to a respective design numerical representation of the set of design numerical representations, and based on the comparing, determine whether a set of discrepancies exists.
21. A computer-implemented method of managing safety logic within a process control system for a process plant, the method comprising: accessing an initial cause and effect matrix (CEM) having a set of causes arranged in a first dimension of the CEM and a set of effects arranged in a second dimension of the CEM, wherein each of the set of causes represents a condition within the process plant and each of the set of effects represents an effect to be performed within the process plant, and wherein at least some of the set of causes and the set of effects are related as cause-effect pairs whereby the corresponding effect activates in response to an occurrence of one or more corresponding causes; accessing one or more rules from a set of rules; and reorganizing the CEM, wherein reorganizing the CEM includes rearranging, according to the one or more rules or at least one user input, at least one row of the set of rows of the CEM and at least one column of the set of columns of the CEM; identifying one or more related groups as a subset of the set of causes and a subset of the set of effects of the CEM, wherein at least one related group includes less than all of the set of causes or less than all of the set of effects; creating one or more logic blocks to implement each of the one or more related groups.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the cause-effect pairs include one or more trigger types, wherein the trigger type is one of a permissive relationship, an immediate relationship, or a delayed relationship.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein reorganizing the CEM based on a rule of the one or more rules includes grouping at least a portion of the cause-effect pairs based on the corresponding trigger type.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein reorganizing the CEM based on a rule of the one or more rules includes grouping rows of the CEM corresponding to causes related to a particular area of the process plant.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein rearranging the CEM based on a rule of the one or more rules includes grouping columns of the CEM corresponding to effects related to a particular area of the process plant.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving, via a user-interface of a client device, an indication to further rearrange one or more rows of the reorganized CEM.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving, via a user-interface of a client device, an indication to further rearrange one or more columns of the reorganized CEM.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein rearranging the CEM based on a rule of the one or more rules includes rearranging the CEM such that only causes and effects that belong to one or more cause-effect pairs are grouped in the CEM.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more rules are accessed from one or more databases associated with the process control system.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: creating one or more monitor blocks and one or more effect blocks based on the one or more logic blocks corresponding to the one or more related groups.
31. A system for managing safety logic within a process control system for a process plant, comprising: a workstation communicatively coupled to one or more field devices of the process plant, the workstation including: a memory configured to store safety logic corresponding to the one or more field devices, wherein the safety logic is stored in a two-dimensional matrix and an analysis module configured to: access the matrix from the memory, and rearrange one or more columns of the matrix or one or more rows of the matrix based on one or more rules of a set of rules or at least one user input.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the two-dimensional matrix is a cause and effect matrix (CEM) having a set of causes and a set of effects, wherein each of the set of causes represents a condition within the process plant and each of the set of effects represents an effect to be performed within the process plant, and wherein at least some of the set of causes and the set of effects are related as cause-effect pairs whereby the corresponding effect activates in response to an occurrence of one or more corresponding causes.
33. The system of claim 32, wherein each of the causes of the set of causes corresponds to one of the one or more field devices.
34. The system of claim 32, wherein each of the effects of the set of effects corresponds to one of the one or more field devices.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein the set of rules is stored in the memory of the workstation.
36. The system of claim 31, wherein the set of rules are stored in a database associated with the process plant.
37. The system of claim 31, wherein the analysis module is configured to rearrange one or more columns of the matrix and one or more rows of the matrix based on one or more received inputs.
38. The system of claim 31, wherein the set of rules are received via a user-interface of a client device corresponding to the workstation.
</claims>
</document>
