<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZSCALER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALAIAH, CHAKKARAVARTHY PERIYASAMY
DEVARAJAN, SRIKANTH
MAZBOUDI, KD
PAMPATI, SREEDHAR
SHARMA, DHAWAL
SINHA, AMIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783550
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for improving digital user experience
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for improving digital user experience include performing inline monitoring of network access between one or more users each with an associated user device executing an agent application, the Internet, and one or more cloud applications and private applications accessible via lightweight connectors; obtaining user experience scores for any of a user, a group of users, a location, and an organization from the inline monitoring or from the logging and analytics system; responsive to a low user experience, analyzing the low user experience score to determine one or more likely factors; and causing one or more remedial actions to address the low user experience score based on the one or more likely factors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for improving digital user experience comprising: a plurality of nodes forming a cloud system, wherein the plurality of nodes are communicatively coupled to i) one or more users each with an associated user device executing an agent application, ii) the Internet, and iii) one or more cloud applications and private applications accessible via lightweight connectors, and wherein the cloud system provides inline monitoring of network access between the one or more users, the Internet, and the one or more cloud applications and private applications; a logging and analytics system communicatively coupled to the cloud system configured to log and store user experience metrics collected by the inline monitoring of the cloud system; and an analytics service communicatively coupled to the cloud system and the logging and analytics system, wherein the analytics service is configured to obtain user experience scores that are based on the user experience metrics for any of a user, a group of users, a location, and an organization from a monitoring system or from the logging and analytics system, responsive to a low user experience, analyze the low user experience score to determine and isolate one or more factors from common factors that commonly affect the user experience score, cause one or more remedial actions to address the low user experience score based on the one or more factors, analyze user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis, determine factors in the cloud system, on the associated user device, and in the one or more cloud applications and private applications that cause low user experience scores, and utilize the determined factors in analysis of the low user experience score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the analytics service is configured to analyze user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis, and utilize the analyzed user experience scores to train a machine learning algorithm.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more remedial actions include any of opening of a service ticket with detailed metrics and reports included, causing granular analysis on a user device via the agent application, changing one or more tunnels in the cloud system, and configuring bandwidth controls to adjust priority of a corresponding application.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the cloud system includes a plurality of tunnels and tunnels are selected based on the user experience scores for specific users for specific applications.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the user experience score captures digital experience and is based on a given application with associated device, application, and network-related metrics.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the user experience scores are utilized for a specific application for all users for peer comparison.
7. A cloud node in a cloud system for monitoring digital user experience comprising: a network interface communicatively coupled to i) one or more users each with an associated user device executing an agent application, ii) the Internet, and iii) one or more cloud applications and private applications accessible via lightweight connectors; a processor communicatively coupled to the network interface; and memory storing instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to perform inline monitoring of network access between the one or more users, the Internet, and the one or more cloud applications and private applications, log and store user experience metrics, collected by the inline monitoring, in a logging and analytics system, obtain user experience scores that are based on the user experience metrics for any of a user, a group of users, a location, and an organization from the inline monitoring or from the logging and analytics system, responsive to a low user experience, analyze the low user experience score to determine and isolate one or more factors from common factors that commonly affect the user experience score, cause one or more remedial actions to address the low user experience score based on the one or more factors, analyze user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis, determine factors in the cloud system, on the associated user device, and in the one or more cloud applications and private applications that cause low user experience scores, and utilize the determined factors in analysis of the low user experience score.
8. The cloud node of claim 7, wherein the memory storing instructions that, when executed, further cause the processor to analyze user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis, and utilize the analyzed user experience scores to train a machine learning algorithm.
9. The cloud node of claim 7, wherein the one or more remedial actions include any of opening of a service ticket with detailed metrics and reports included, causing granular analysis on a user device via the agent application, changing one or more tunnels in the cloud system, and configuring bandwidth controls to adjust priority of a corresponding application.
10. The cloud node of claim 7, wherein the cloud system includes a plurality of tunnels and tunnels are selected based on the user experience scores for specific users for specific applications.
11. The cloud node of claim 7, wherein the user experience score captures digital experience and is based on a given application with associated device, application, and network-related metrics.
12. The cloud node of claim 7, wherein the user experience scores are utilized for a specific application for all users for peer comparison.
13. A method comprising: performing inline monitoring of network access between one or more users each with an associated user device executing an agent application, the Internet, and one or more cloud applications and private applications accessible via lightweight connectors; log and store user experience metrics, collected by the inline monitoring, in a logging and analytics system; obtaining user experience scores that are based on the user experience metrics for any of a user, a group of users, a location, and an organization from the inline monitoring or from the logging and analytics system; responsive to a low user experience, analyzing the low user experience score to determine and isolate one or more factors from common factors that commonly affect the user experience score; causing one or more remedial actions to address the low user experience score based on the one or more factors analyzing user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis; determining factors in the cloud system, on the associated user device, and in the one or more cloud applications and private applications that cause low user experience scores; and utilizing the determined factors in analysis of the low user experience score.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising analyzing user experience scores on one or more of an ongoing basis and a historical basis; and utilizing the analyzed user experience scores to train a machine learning algorithm.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more remedial actions include any of opening of a service ticket with detailed metrics and reports included, causing granular analysis on a user device via the agent application, changing one or more tunnels in the cloud system, and configuring bandwidth controls to adjust priority of a corresponding application.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the cloud system includes a plurality of tunnels and tunnels are selected based on the user experience scores for specific users for specific applications.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the user experience scores are utilized for a specific application for all users for peer comparison.
</claims>
</document>
