<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/00,A63F13/35,A63F13/56,A63F13/795,G06F16/903
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HTC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Dietrich, Brent DelFierro
Pospisil, Jacqueline
Gokalp, Ayfer
Robbins, Daniel Chaim
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for identifying and describing group, coordinating device, and computer program product
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides a method for identifying and describing a group, a coordinating device, and a computer program product. The method includes: accumulating a staying time of a plurality of avatars staying at a certain location, wherein the avatars are controlled by a plurality of users; identifying the avatars as a specific ad-hoc group and monitoring a plurality of interactive behaviors between the avatars if the staying time exceeds a time threshold; providing at least one of the users with a questionnaire based on the interactive behaviors; generating a group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on a plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire; and communicating this description to other users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying and describing a group, comprising: accumulating a staying time of a plurality of avatars staying at a certain location, wherein the avatars are controlled by a plurality of users; identifying the avatars as a specific group if the staying time exceeds a time threshold; providing at least one of the users with a questionnaire; and generating a group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on a plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the avatars are in a virtual reality environment or an online game environment.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the avatars comprise a host avatar, and the step of accumulating the staying time of the plurality of avatars staying at the certain location comprises: defining a certain space around the host avatar as the certain location; if a first avatar enters the certain space, accumulating a first staying time of the first avatar staying in the certain space; and defining the staying time as the first staying time.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising monitoring a plurality of interactive behaviors between the avatars, and the step of providing the at least one of the users with a questionnaire comprises: providing the at least one of the users with the questionnaire based on the interactive behaviors.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the interactive behaviors comprise a plurality of gestures, a plurality of texting contents, and a plurality of voice contents inputted by the users, and the step of monitoring the plurality of interactive behaviors between the avatars if the staying time exceeds the time threshold comprises: analysing the interactive behaviors to find a plurality of keywords corresponded thereto.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the questionnaire comprises a plurality of questions corresponding to a plurality of candidate activities that are possibly performed by the avatars, and the step of providing the at least one of the users with the questionnaire based on the interactive behaviors comprises: identifying one of the users as a leader user; using the keywords retrieved from the interactive behaviors to find the candidate activities corresponding to the keywords among a plurality of predetermined activities; showing a dialogue comprising the candidate activities for the leader user to choose.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the step of generating the group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on the plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire comprises: retrieving at least one current activity chosen by the leader user from the candidate activities in the dialogue; constructing the group description about the specific group based on the at least one current activity.
8. The method according to claim 5, wherein the questionnaire comprises a plurality of questions corresponding to a plurality of candidate activities that are possibly performed by the avatars, and the step of providing at least one of the users with the questionnaire based on the interactive behaviors comprises: using the keywords retrieved from the interactive behaviors to find the candidate activities among a plurality of predetermined activities; showing a dialogue comprising the candidate activities for each of the users to choose.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the step of generating the group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on the plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire comprises: retrieving at least one current activity chosen by each of the users from the candidate activities in the dialogue; finding a predetermined number of mostly chosen activities among the at least one current activity; constructing the group description about the specific group based on the mostly chosen activities.
10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: adding a tag on each of the avatars for showing that the avatars belong to the specific group.
11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: assigning an incentive for the users who answered the questionnaire.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein after the step of generating the group description, further comprising: displaying the group description about the specific group around the avatars.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the step of displaying the group description about the specific group around the avatars comprises: showing the group description in response to a query of an external avatar of the specific group.
14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the step of displaying the group description about the specific group around the avatars comprises: using a floating banner to show the group description in response to an external avatar is detected to be spaced from the certain location by less than a distance threshold.
15. A coordinating device, comprising: a non-transitory storage circuit, storing a plurality of modules; and a processor, coupled with the non-transitory storage circuit and executing the modules to perform following steps: accumulating a staying time of a plurality of avatars staying at a certain location, wherein the avatars are controlled by a plurality of users; identifying the avatars as a specific group if the staying time exceeds a time threshold; providing at least one of the users with a questionnaire; and generating a group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on a plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire.
16. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the avatars are in a virtual reality environment or an online game environment, and the coordinating device is a server managing the virtual reality environment or the online game environment.
17. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the avatars comprise a host avatar, and the processor is configured to: define a certain space around the host avatar as the certain location; if a first avatar enters the certain space, accumulate a first staying time of the first avatar staying in the certain space; and defining the staying time as the first staying time.
18. The coordinating device according to claim 17, wherein the host avatar is controlled by the coordinating device.
19. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to monitor a plurality of interactive behaviors between the avatars and provide the at least one of the users with the questionnaire based on the interactive behaviors.
20. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the interactive behaviors comprise a plurality of gesturers, a plurality of texting contents, and a plurality of voice contents inputted by the users, and the processor is configured to: analyse the interactive behaviors to find a plurality of keywords corresponded thereto.
21. The coordinating device according to claim 20, wherein the questionnaire comprises a plurality of questions corresponding to a plurality of candidate activities that are possibly performed by the avatars, and the processor is configured to: identify one of the users as a leader user; use the keywords retrieved from the interactive behaviors to find the candidate activities corresponding to the keywords among a plurality of predetermined activities; show a dialogue comprising the candidate activities for the leader user to choose.
22. The coordinating device according to claim 21, wherein the processor is configured to: retrieve at least one current activity chosen by the leader user from the candidate activities in the dialogue; construct the group description about the specific group based on the at least one current activity.
23. The coordinating device according to claim 20, wherein the questionnaire comprises a plurality of questions corresponding to a plurality of candidate activities that are possibly performed by the avatars, and the processor is configured to: use the keywords retrieved from the interactive behaviors to find the candidate activities among a plurality of predetermined activities; show a dialogue comprising the candidate activities for each of the users to choose.
24. The coordinating device according to claim 23, wherein the processor is configured to: retrieve at least one current activity chosen by each of the users from the candidate activities in the dialogue; find a predetermined number of mostly chosen activities among the at least one current activity; construct the group description about the specific group based on the mostly chosen activities.
25. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: add a tag on each of the avatars for showing that the avatars belong to the specific group.
26. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: assigning an incentive for the users who answered the questionnaire.
27. The coordinating device according to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: displaying the group description about the specific group around the avatars.
28. The coordinating device according to claim 27, wherein the processor is configured to: showing the group description in response to a query of an external avatar of the specific group.
29. The coordinating device according to claim 27, wherein the step of displaying the group description about the specific group around the avatars comprises: using a floating banner to show the group description in response to an external avatar is detected to be spaced from the certain location by less than a distance threshold.
30. A non-transitory computer program product for use in conjunction with a coordinating device, the non-transitory computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium and an executable computer program mechanism embedded therein, the executable computer program mechanism comprising instructions for: accumulating a staying time of a plurality of avatars staying at a certain location, wherein the avatars are controlled by a plurality of users; identifying the avatars as a specific group if the staying time exceeds a time threshold; providing at least one of the users with a questionnaire; and generating a group description about the specific group formed by the avatars based on a plurality of answers of the at least one of the users on answering the questionnaire.
</claims>
</document>
