<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRABORTY, SUDIP
GEDIGERI, VAIBHAV
NATH, SOVIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68235951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for monitoring input data and model scores in analytical models for IOT (internet of things) devices
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for monitoring models monitoring Internet-connected devices. Systems and methods include receiving, from an Internet-connected devices monitoring system, training data, the Internet-connected devices monitoring system being configured to predict future maintenance needs and/or failures of at least one Internet-connected device. Systems and methods further include receiving, from the Internet-connected devices monitoring system, production data associated with the at least one Internet-connected device, and determining that a data distance metric between the training data and the production data exceeds a first predetermined risk threshold. Systems and methods further include determining a risk level to be associated with the Internet-connected devices monitoring model based on the determination that the data distance metric exceeds the first predetermined risk threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting failures in one or more models, the one or more models monitoring Internet-connected devices, comprising: receiving, from an Internet-connected devices monitoring system, training data, the Internet-connected devices monitoring system being configured to predict future maintenance needs and/or failures of at least one Internet-connected device; receiving, from the Internet-connected devices monitoring system, production data associated with the at least one Internet-connected device; determining that a data distance metric between the training data and the production data exceeds a first predetermined statistical distance threshold; and determining a risk level to be associated with the one or more models, the risk level based on the determination that the data distance metric exceeds the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data distance metric comprises a statistical distance metric.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data distance metric comprises a first statistical distance metric, and further comprising: determining a second statistical distance metric, the second statistical distance metric comprising a statistical distance between the training data and the production data, the second statistical distance metric being a different statistical distance metric from the first statistical distance metric; and determining the risk level by comparing the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric to the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the risk level further comprises: determining a second predetermined risk threshold; and determining that the risk level is low risk if both the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric are below the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining that the risk level is high risk if either the first statistical distance metric or the second statistical distance metric exceed both the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the first statistical distance metric is a Jeffrey's Divergence and the second statistical distance metric is a Hellinger Distance.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an alert based on a determination that the risk level exceeds a predetermined threshold.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the Internet-connected device is an industrial IoT device.
9. A system of detecting failures in one or more models; the one or more models monitoring Internet-connected devices, the system comprising: a data storage device that stores instructions for detecting failures in the one or more models; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including receiving, from an Internet-connected devices monitoring system, training data, the Internet-connected devices monitoring system being configured to predict future maintenance needs and/or failures of at least one Internet-connected device; receiving, from the Internet-connected devices monitoring system, production data associated with the at least one Internet-connected device; determining that a data distance metric between the training data and the production data exceeds a first predetermined statistical distance threshold; and determining a risk level to be associated with the one or more models, the risk level based on the determination that the data distance metric exceeds the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the data distance metric comprises a statistical distance metric.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the data distance metric comprises a first statistical distance metric, and further comprising: determining a second statistical distance metric, the second statistical distance metric comprising a statistical distance between the training data and the production data, the second statistical distance metric being a different statistical distance metric from the first statistical distance metric; and determining the risk level by comparing the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric to the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the risk level further comprises: determining a second predetermined statistical distance threshold; and determining that the risk level is low risk if both the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric are below the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: determining that the risk level is high risk if either the first statistical distance metric or the second statistical distance metric exceed both the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the first statistical distance metric is a Jeffrey's Divergence and the second statistical distance metric is a Hellinger Distance.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method of detecting failures in one or more models, the one or more models monitoring Internet-connected devices, comprising: receiving, from an Internet-connected devices monitoring system, training data, the Internet-connected devices monitoring system being configured to predict future maintenance needs and/or failures of at least one Internet-connected device; receiving, from the Internet-connected devices monitoring system, production data associated with the at least one Internet-connected device; determining that a data distance metric between the training data and the production data exceeds a first predetermined risk threshold; and determining a risk level to be associated with the one or more models, the risk level based on the determination that the data distance metric exceeds the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the data distance metric comprises a statistical distance metric.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the data distance metric comprises a first statistical distance metric, and further comprising: determining a second statistical distance metric, the second statistical distance metric comprising a statistical distance between the training data and the production data, the second statistical distance metric being a different statistical distance metric from the first statistical distance metric; and determining the risk level by comparing the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric to the first predetermined statistical distance threshold.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein determining the risk level further comprises: determining a second predetermined risk threshold; ad determining that the risk level is low risk if both the first statistical distance metric and the second statistical distance metric are below the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the risk level is high risk if either the first statistical distance metric or the second statistical distance metric exceed both the first predetermined statistical distance threshold and the second predetermined statistical distance threshold.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the first statistical distance metric is a Jeffrey's Divergence and the second statistical distance metric is a Hellinger Distance.
</claims>
</document>
