<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KONICA MINOLTA BUSINESS SOLUTIONS U.S.A.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELLERT, DARRELL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606019
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING SEQUENCE HEADINGS IN A DOCUMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A method for processing an electronic document (ED) to infer a sequence of section headings in the ED. The method includes generating, by a computer processor, based on regular expression matching of a predetermined section heading pattern and a plurality of characters in the ED, a list of candidate headings in the ED; generating, by the computer processor and based on the list of candidate headings, a list of chain fragments for inferring a portion of the sequence of section headings; and generating, by the computer processor and based on predetermined criteria, the sequence of section headings by merging at least two chain fragments in the list of chain fragments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing an electronic document (ED) to infer a sequence of section headings in the ED, the method comprising: generating, by a computer processor, based on regular expression matching of a predetermined section heading pattern and a plurality of characters in the ED, a list of candidate headings in the ED; generating, by the computer processor and based on the list of candidate headings, a list of chain fragments for inferring a portion of the sequence of section headings; and generating, by the computer processor and based on predetermined criteria, the sequence of section headings by merging at least two chain fragments in the list of chain fragments.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a parsed version of the ED, wherein the parsed version of the ED comprises styling attributes of the plurality of characters in the ED; and determining, based on a uniqueness measure of the styling attributes, a confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining, based on the confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings, a confidence of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and excluding, based on a predetermined confidence threshold and the confidence of each chain fragment, at least one chain fragment from the list of chain fragments for inferring the sequence of section headings.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of candidate headings comprises one or more sequence characters according to the predetermined section heading pattern, wherein generating the list of chain fragments comprises: determining a rank of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings based on a nesting level of the sequence characters, wherein each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments comprises one or more candidate headings having a single rank that defines the rank of said each chain fragment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the list of chain fragments further comprises: traversing backwards in the list of candidate headings to identify a leading candidate heading for each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and traversing, from the leading candidate heading, forward in the list of candidate headings to identify remaining candidate headings in said each chain fragment, wherein the leading candidate heading includes a leading sequence character in the rightmost digit of the sequence characters.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the list of chain fragments is sorted according to the rank of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein merging the at least two chain fragments comprises: determining a proximity measure between a higher rank chain fragment and a lower rank chain fragment in the list of chain fragments, wherein the higher rank chain fragment is one of a plurality of higher rank chain fragments that are on rank higher than the lower rank chain fragment; generating a score of the higher rank chain fragment based on a weighted average of the proximity measure and a confidence of the higher rank chain fragment; and selecting, based on the score and from the plurality of higher rank chain fragments in the list of chain fragments, the higher rank chain fragment to merge the lower rank chain fragment.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium (CRM) storing computer readable program code for processing an electronic document (ED) to infer a sequence of section headings in the ED embodied therein, wherein the computer readable program code, when executed by a computer, comprises functionality for: generating, based on regular expression matching of a predetermined section heading pattern and a plurality of characters in the ED, a list of candidate headings in the ED; generating, based on the list of candidate headings, a list of chain fragments for inferring a portion of the sequence of section headings; and generating, based on predetermined criteria, the sequence of section headings by merging at least two chain fragments in the list of chain fragments.
9. The CRM of claim 8, the computer readable program code, when executed by the computer, further comprising functionality for: generating a parsed version of the ED, wherein the parsed version of the ED comprises styling attributes of the plurality of characters in the ED; and determining, based on a uniqueness measure of the styling attributes, a confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings.
10. The CRM of claim 9, the computer readable program code, when executed by the computer, further comprising functionality for: determining, based on the confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings, a confidence of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and excluding, based on a predetermined confidence threshold and the confidence of each chain fragment, at least one chain fragment from the list of chain fragments for inferring the sequence of section headings.
11. The CRM of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of candidate headings comprises one or more sequence characters according to the predetermined section heading pattern, wherein generating the list of chain fragments comprises: determining a rank of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings based on a nesting level of the sequence characters, wherein each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments comprises one or more candidate headings having a single rank that defines the rank of said each chain fragment.
12. The CRM of claim 11, wherein generating the list of chain fragments further comprises: traversing backwards in the list of candidate headings to identify a leading candidate heading for each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and traversing, from the leading candidate heading, forward in the list of candidate headings to identify remaining candidate headings in said each chain fragment, wherein the leading candidate heading includes a leading sequence character in the rightmost digit of the sequence characters.
13. The CRM of claim 11, wherein the list of chain fragments is sorted according to the rank of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments.
14. The CRM of claim 11, wherein merging the at least two chain fragments comprises: determining a proximity measure between a higher rank chain fragment and a lower rank chain fragment in the list of chain fragments, wherein the higher rank chain fragment is one of a plurality of higher rank chain fragments that are on rank higher than the lower rank chain fragment; generating a score of the higher rank chain fragment based on a weighted average of the proximity measure and a confidence of the higher rank chain fragment; and selecting, based on the score and from the plurality of higher rank chain fragments in the list of chain fragments, the higher rank chain fragment to merge the lower rank chain fragment.
15. A system for processing an electronic document (ED) to infer a sequence of section headings in the ED, the system comprising: a memory; and a computer processor connected to the memory and configured to: generate, based on regular expression matching of a predetermined section heading pattern and a plurality of characters in the ED, a list of candidate headings in the ED; generate, based on the list of candidate headings, a list of chain fragments for inferring a portion of the sequence of section headings; and generate, based on predetermined criteria, the sequence of section headings by merging at least two chain fragments in the list of chain fragments.
16. The system of claim 15, the computer processor further configured to: generate a parsed version of the ED, wherein the parsed version of the ED comprises styling attributes of the plurality of characters in the ED; and determine, based on a uniqueness measure of the styling attributes, a confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings.
17. The system of claim 16, the computer processor further configured to: determine, based on the confidence of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings, a confidence of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and exclude, based on a predetermined confidence threshold and the confidence of each chain fragment, at least one chain fragment from the list of chain fragments for inferring the sequence of section headings.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of candidate headings comprises one or more sequence characters according to the predetermined section heading pattern, wherein generating the list of chain fragments comprises: determining a rank of each candidate heading in the list of candidate headings based on a nesting level of the sequence characters, wherein each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments comprises one or more candidate headings having a single rank that defines the rank of said each chain fragment.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein generating the list of chain fragments further comprises: traversing backwards in the list of candidate headings to identify a leading candidate heading for each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments; and traversing, from the leading candidate heading, forward in the list of candidate headings to identify remaining candidate headings in said each chain fragment, wherein the leading candidate heading includes a leading sequence character in the rightmost digit of the sequence characters.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the list of chain fragments is sorted according to the rank of each chain fragment in the list of chain fragments.
21. The system of claim 18, wherein merging the at least two chain fragments comprises: determining a proximity measure between a higher rank chain fragment and a lower rank chain fragment in the list of chain fragments, wherein the higher rank chain fragment is one of a plurality of higher rank chain fragments that are on rank higher than the lower rank chain fragment; generating a score of the higher rank chain fragment based on a weighted average of the proximity measure and a confidence of the higher rank chain fragment; and selecting, based on the score and from the plurality of higher rank chain fragments in the list of chain fragments, the higher rank chain fragment to merge the lower rank chain fragment.
</claims>
</document>
