<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATHAK, RAMESH CHANDRA
BANDYOPADHYAY, SANTANU
RAO, SURYANARAYANA
ANAND, VISHAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIPLE PARAMETER BASED COMPOSITE RULE DATA VALIDATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for multiple parameter based composite rule data validation includes receiving a request to validate target data of a target object based on constituent parameters, identifying the data type of the target data, suggesting validation rules based on the data type of the target object, generating a set of composite validation queries, identifying at least one composite validation query in the set of composite validation queries corresponding to the constituent parameters and values, validating the target data of the target object against the at least one composite validation query, and returning a validation result for the target data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of multiple parameter based composite rule wise data validation, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors of a computer system, a request to validate target data of a target object based on constituent parameters; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a data type of the target data; suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, validation rules based on the data type of the target object, constituent parameters, and constituent parameter values; generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a set of composite validation queries; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, at least one composite validation query in the set of composite validation queries corresponding to the constituent parameters and values; validating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the target data of the target object against the at least one composite validation query; and returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation result for the target data of the target object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the set of composite validation queries includes: generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, all possible combinations of the constituent parameter values; and appending, by the one or more processors of the computer system, each combination of the constituent parameter values with the suggested validation rules.
3. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the set of composite validation queries in key-value pair format; forming, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a constituent parameter key pair based on the values of the constituent parameters in the request; wherein the identifying includes matching, by the one or more processors of the computer system, constituent parameter key pair to at least one corresponding composite validation query key pair.
4. The method of claim 2, the method further comprising: wherein the appending includes detecting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, an error when forming the set of composite validation queries; analyzing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the error; obtaining, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a new validation rule based on the error and the data type; storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the new validation rule in a validation rule dictionary according to the data type; wherein the suggesting includes suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation rule from the validation rule dictionary.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the request from an application and the returning includes returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the validation result to the application.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors, requests from a plurality of applications in a cluster environment and wherein the same set of composite validation queries are utilized for each request.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the constituent parameters include a request state, a user role, and a document state.
8. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; one or more memory devices coupled to the one or more processors; and one or more computer readable storage devices coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the one or more storage devices contain program code executable by the one or more processors via the one or more memory devices to implement a method of multiple parameter based composite rule wise data validation, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors of a computer system, a request to validate target data of a target object based on constituent parameters; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a data type of the target data; suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, validation rules based on the data type of the target object, constituent parameters, and constituent parameter values; generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a set of composite validation queries; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, at least one composite validation query in the set of composite validation queries corresponding to the constituent parameters and values; validating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the target data of the target object against the at least one composite validation query; and returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation result for the target data of the target object.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the generating the set of composite validation queries includes: generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, all possible combinations of the constituent parameter values; and appending, by the one or more processors of the computer system, each combination of the constituent parameter values with the suggested validation rules.
10. The computer system of claim 8, the method further comprising: storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the set of composite validation queries in key-value pair format; forming, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a constituent parameter key pair based on the values of the constituent parameters in the request; wherein the identifying includes matching, by the one or more processors of the computer system, constituent parameter key pair to at least one corresponding composite validation query key pair.
11. The computer system of claim 9, the method further comprising: wherein the appending includes detecting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, an error when forming the set of composite validation queries; analyzing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the error; obtaining, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a new validation rule based on the error and the data type; storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the new validation rule in a validation rule dictionary according to the data type; wherein the suggesting includes suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation rule from the validation rule dictionary.
12. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the request from an application and the returning includes returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the validation result to the application.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors, requests from a plurality of applications in a cluster environment and wherein the same set of composite validation queries are utilized for each request.
14. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the constituent parameters include a request state, a user role, and a document state.
15. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable hardware storage device storing a computer readable program code, the computer readable program code comprising an algorithm that when executed by one or more processors of a computer system implements a method of multiple parameter based composite rule wise data validation, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors of a computer system, a request to validate target data of a target object based on constituent parameters; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a data type of the target data; suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, validation rules based on the data type of the target object, constituent parameters, and constituent parameter values; generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a set of composite validation queries; identifying, by the one or more processors of the computer system, at least one composite validation query in the set of composite validation queries corresponding to the constituent parameters and values; validating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the target data of the target object against the at least one composite validation query; and returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation result for the target data of the target object.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the generating the set of composite validation queries includes: generating, by the one or more processors of the computer system, all possible combinations of the constituent parameter values; and appending, by the one or more processors of the computer system, each combination of the constituent parameter values with the suggested validation rules.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the method further comprising: storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the set of composite validation queries in key-value pair format; forming, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a constituent parameter key pair based on the values of the constituent parameters in the request; wherein the identifying includes matching, by the one or more processors of the computer system, constituent parameter key pair to at least one corresponding composite validation query key pair.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, the method further comprising: wherein the appending includes detecting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, an error when forming the set of composite validation queries; analyzing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the error; obtaining, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a new validation rule based on the error and the data type; storing, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the new validation rule in a validation rule dictionary according to the data type; wherein the suggesting includes suggesting, by the one or more processors of the computer system, a validation rule from the validation rule dictionary.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the request from an application and the returning includes returning, by the one or more processors of the computer system, the validation result to the application.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the receiving includes receiving, by the one or more processors, requests from a plurality of applications in a cluster environment and wherein the same set of composite validation queries are utilized for each request.
</claims>
</document>
