<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABBASZADEH, MASOUD
MESTHA, LALIT KESHAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69587174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Situation awareness and dynamic ensemble forecasting of abnormal behavior in cyber-physical system
</title>

<abstract>
A plurality of monitoring nodes may each generate a time-series of current monitoring node values representing current operation of a cyber-physical system. A feature-based forecasting framework may receive the time-series of and generate a set of current feature vectors using feature discovery techniques. The feature behavior for each monitoring node may be characterized in the form of decision boundaries that separate normal and abnormal space based on operating data of the system. A set of ensemble state-space models may be constructed to represent feature evolution in the time-domain, wherein the forecasted outputs from the set of ensemble state-space models comprise anticipated time evolution of features. The framework may then obtain an overall features forecast through dynamic ensemble averaging and compare the overall features forecast to a threshold to generate an estimate associated with at least one feature vector crossing an associated decision boundary.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to protect a cyber-physical system, comprising: a plurality of monitoring nodes each generating a time-series of current monitoring node values that represent a current operation of the cyber-physical system; and a feature-based forecasting computer platform, coupled to the plurality of monitoring nodes, to: receive the time-series of current monitoring node values and generate a set of current feature vectors using feature discovery techniques, characterize the feature behavior for each monitoring node in the form of decision boundaries that separate normal and abnormal space based on operating data of the cyber-physical system, construct a set of ensemble state-space models to represent feature evolution in the time-domain, wherein the forecasted outputs from the set of ensemble state-space models comprise anticipated time evolution of features, obtain an overall features forecast through dynamic ensemble averaging, compare the overall features forecast to a threshold to generate an estimate associated with at least one feature vector crossing an associated decision boundary, and transmit an abnormality alert signal based on the estimate.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the abnormality alert signal is associated with at least one of: (i) a failure in the cyber-physical system, and (ii) a cyber-attack.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of current feature vectors include local feature vectors and global feature vectors.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the generation of the set of current feature vectors uses dimensionality reduction in the feature space.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operating data is collected from at least one of: (i) operation of the cyber-physical system, and (ii) execution of a virtual model of the cyber-physical system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the ensembles are constructed via selections that use at least one of: (i) a soft cluster method, and (ii) Gaussian Mixture Model ("GMM") clustering.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the construction of the set of ensemble state-space models uses model order reduction in the dynamic state-space.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the forecasted outputs are computed by applying at least one of: (i) an adaptive prediction method, and (ii) an adaptive Kalman predictor to each ensemble model.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the dynamic ensemble averaging comprises projecting the evolution of feature vector to future times in a receding horizon fashion.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the estimate includes at least one of: (i) an indication of whether at least one feature vector is predicted to cross an associated decision boundary, and (ii) an indication of when at least one feature vector is predicted to cross an associated decision boundary.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a forecasting framework to generate a deterministic decision associated with anomaly detection and a probabilistic decision associated with situation awareness, including: an off-line training component to generate: (i) a short-term forecast model, (ii) a mid-term forecast model, and (iii) a long-term forecast model.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the forecasting framework further includes: an on-line operation component using the short-term, mid-term, and long-term models to generate an early warning signal.
13. A method to protect a cyber-physical system associated with a plurality of monitoring nodes, each generating a series of current monitoring node values over time that represent a current operation of an industrial asset, comprising: receiving, by a feature-based forecasting computer platform from the plurality of monitoring nodes, the time-series of current monitoring node values that represent current operation of the cyber-physical system; generating a set of current feature vectors using feature discovery techniques; characterizing the feature behavior for each monitoring node in the form of decision boundaries that separate normal and abnormal space based on operating data of the cyber-physical system; constructing a set of ensemble state-space models to represent feature evolution in the time-domain, wherein the forecasted outputs from the set of ensemble state-space models comprise anticipated time evolution of features; obtaining an overall features forecast through dynamic ensemble averaging; comparing the overall features forecast to a threshold to generate an estimate associated with at least one feature vector crossing an associated decision boundary; and transmitting an abnormality alert signal based on the estimate.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the abnormality alert signal is associated with at least one of: (i) a failure in the cyber-physical system, and (ii) a cyber-attack.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the set of current feature vectors include local feature vectors and global feature vectors.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the generation of the set of current feature vectors uses dimensionality reduction in the feature space.
17. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program code, the program code executable by a computer processor to cause the processor to perform a method to protect a cyber-physical system, the method comprising: receiving, by a feature-based forecasting computer platform from a plurality of monitoring nodes, a time-series of current monitoring node values that represent a current operation of the cyber-physical system; generating a set of current feature vectors using feature discovery techniques; characterizing the feature behavior for each monitoring node in the form of decision boundaries that separate normal and abnormal space based on operating data of the cyber-physical system; constructing a set of ensemble state-space models to represent feature evolution in the time-domain, wherein the forecasted outputs from the set of ensemble state-space models comprise anticipated time evolution of features; obtaining an overall features forecast through dynamic ensemble averaging; comparing the overall features forecast to a threshold to generate an estimate associated with at least one feature vector crossing an associated decision boundary; and transmitting an abnormality alert signal based on the estimate.
18. The medium of claim 17, wherein the construction of the set of ensemble state-space models uses model order reduction in the dynamic state-space.
19. The medium of claim 17, wherein the forecasted outputs are computed by applying at least one of: (i) an adaptive prediction method, and (ii) an adaptive Kalman predictor to each ensemble model.
20. The medium of claim 17, wherein the dynamic ensemble averaging comprises projecting the evolution of feature vector to future times in a receding horizon fashion.
21. The medium of claim 17, wherein the estimate includes at least one of: (i) an indication of whether at least one feature vector is predicted to cross an associated decision boundary, and (ii) an indication of when at least one feature vector is predicted to cross an associated decision boundary.
</claims>
</document>
