<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06N7/00,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BABYLON PARTNERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHODADADI, MOHAMMAD
HOMER, BENJAMIN
STRODAHS, ANSIS
BELL, MYLES
CORAPI, DOMENICO
MORRIELLO, MAURIZIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72040666
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying Valid Medical Data for Facilitating Accurate Medical Diagnosis
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for determining validity of medical information are provided. In one aspect, a computer-implemented method includes obtaining, from a stored clinical history, information relating to a set of items of medical data associated with a user, the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present, wherein an item of medical data comprises a symptom, risk factor, disease, physiological data, recommendation or behaviour. The method also includes obtaining the source of the information indicating whether the item of medical data is present. The method also includes determining the validity of the information and providing valid information, wherein the validity is determined from information indicating items of medical data which are permanently valid or from a time duration from when the information was reported in the stored clinical history. The method also includes applying a policy to prioritise information based on the source information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining a validity of medical information, the method comprising: obtaining, from a stored clinical history, information relating to a set of items of medical data associated with a user, the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present, wherein an item of medical data comprises a symptom, risk factor, disease, physiological data, recommendation or behaviour; obtaining, from the stored clinical history, the source of the information indicating whether the item of medical data is present; determining the validity of the information and providing valid information, wherein the validity is determined by comparing the item of medical data to a list of items of medical data which are permanently valid and determining that the information indicating that the item of medical data is present is valid if the item of medical data corresponds to an entry on the list, or by comparing a reference time duration to a time duration from when the information was reported in the stored clinical history and determining that the information is valid if the reference time duration is greater than the time duration from when the information was reported; applying a policy to prioritise information based on the source information; and identifying any conflicting valid information, wherein any identified conflicts are resolved based on the priority.
2. (canceled)
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein when the source information indicates that the source is a human doctor, the information has priority.
4. (canceled)
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein there is a stored reference time duration associated with each of a plurality of items medical data.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: checking if an item of medical data from the set of items of medical data has a subsumption relationship with a candidate item of medical data for which information used to determine validity is stored.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the information comprises information indicating that the item of medical data is present or absent, and wherein for one or more of the items of medical data, there is a first reference time duration which is used when the information indicates that the item of medical data is present, and a second reference time duration which is used when the information indicates that the item of medical data is absent.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the valid information comprises a confidence level representing a likelihood that the corresponding item of medical data is absent or present.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the stored clinical history comprises information relating to items of medical data from healthcare providers' data sources.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the source information comprises information identifying whether the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present originated from one or more of: a doctor, a user, a medical diagnosis system, a healthcare providers' data sources, a prescription, a health check, a lab test.
11. A computer-implemented method for determining validity of medical information, the method comprising: obtaining, from a stored clinical history, information relating to a set of items of medical data associated with a user, the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present, wherein an item of medical data comprises a symptom, risk factor, disease, physiological data, recommendation or behaviour; obtaining, from the stored clinical history, the source of the information indicating whether the item of medical data is present; determining the validity of the information and providing valid information, wherein the validity is determined by comparing the item of medical data to a list of items of medical data which are permanently valid and determining that the information indicating that the item of medical data is present is valid if the item of medical data corresponds to an entry on the list, or by comparing a reference time duration to a time duration from when the information was reported in the stored clinical history and determining that the information is valid if the reference time duration is greater than the time duration from when the information was reported; identifying any conflicting valid information; and resolving identified conflicts by excluding valid information based on the source information.
12. A system for determining validity of medical information, the system comprising: an input configured to receive information relating to a set of items of medical data associated with a user from a stored clinical history, the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present, wherein an item of medical data comprises a symptom, risk factor, disease, physiological data, recommendation or behaviour, wherein the input is configured to receive, from the stored clinical history, the source of the information indicating whether the item of medical data is present; a processor configured to determine the validity of the information, wherein the validity is determined by comparing the item of medical data to a list of items of medical data which are permanently valid and determining that the information indicating that the item of medical data is present is valid if the item of medical data corresponds to an entry on the list, or by comparing a reference time duration to a time duration from when the information was reported in the stored clinical history and determining that the information is valid if the reference time duration is greater than the time duration from when the information was reported, wherein the processor is configured to apply a policy to prioritise information based on the source information and identify any conflicting valid information, wherein any identified conflicts are resolved based on the priority; and an output configured to provide valid information.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein when the source information indicates that the source is a human doctor, the information has priority.
14. (canceled)
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein there is a stored reference time duration associated with each of a plurality of items medical data.
16. The system according to claim 12, wherein the information comprises information indicating that the item of medical data is present or absent, and wherein for one or more of the items of medical data, there is a first reference time duration which is used when the information indicates that the item of medical data is present, and a second reference time duration which is used when the information indicates that the item of medical data is absent.
17. The system according to claim 12, wherein the valid information comprises a confidence level representing a likelihood that the corresponding item of medical data is absent or present.
18. The system according to claim 12, wherein the stored clinical history comprises information relating to items of medical data from healthcare providers' data sources.
19. A system according to claim 12, wherein the source information comprises information identifying whether the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present originated from one or more of: a doctor, a user, a medical diagnosis system, a healthcare providers' data sources, a prescription, a health check, a lab test.
20. A system for determining validity of medical information, the system comprising: an input configured to receive information relating to a set of items of medical data associated with a user from a stored clinical history, the information comprising an indication of whether the item of medical data is present, wherein an item of medical data comprises a symptom, risk factor, disease, physiological data, recommendation or behaviour, wherein the input is configured to receive, from the stored clinical history, the source of the information indicating whether the item of medical data is present; a processor configured to determine the validity of the information, wherein the validity is determined by comparing the item of medical data to a list of medical data which are permanently valid and determining that the information indicating that the item of medical data is present is valid if the item of medical data corresponds to an entry on the list, or by comparing a reference time duration to a time duration from when the information was reported in the stored clinical history and determining that the information is valid if the reference time duration is greater than the time duration from when the information was reported, and wherein the processor is configured to identify any conflicting valid information and resolve identified conflicts by excluding valid information based on the source information; and an output configured to provide valid information.
</claims>
</document>
