<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q30/02,G10L25/63,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOUHIKAINEN, HANNES
AZNAURASHVILI, ZVIAD
SHERIF, TIMUR
BLANCHET, STEVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69054716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PRE-COMMUNICATING SHOPPERS COMMUNICATION PREFERENCES TO RETAILERS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for providing a customized user experience. Providing a customized user experience may include receiving, from a graphical user interface displayed on a mobile device a user input indicative of a preferred level of interaction by the user, and monitoring, by a sensor, a facial expression of the user. Then, a first preference metric may be assigned to the user based on the monitored facial expression. Providing a customized user experience may further include monitoring, by a sensor, a behavior of the user, assigning a second preference metric based on the monitored behavior, and aggregating at least the user input, the first preference unit, and the second preference metric to generate a preference score of the user. The preference score may be stored in a central database, displayed on a remote device, and used to modify a customer service experience.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of providing a customized user experience, the method comprising: receiving, from a graphical user interface displayed on a mobile device, a user input indicative of a preferred level of interaction by the user; monitoring, by a first sensor, a facial expression of the user by: recording a video of the user; separating the video into a plurality of video frames; and matching the video frames to frames of facial expressions stored in a database; assigning a first preference metric to the user, based on the monitored facial expression; monitoring, by a second sensor, a behavior of the user; assigning a second preference metric to the user, based on the monitored behavior; generating a preference score of the user by aggregating at least the user input, the first preference metric, and the second preference metric; storing the preference score in a central database; and displaying the preference score on a remote device, wherein the preference score is used to modify a customer service experience.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the first sensor comprises an image sensor; and monitoring the facial expression comprises processing the video frames, by a machine-learning algorithm, to match the video frames to a corresponding user emotion.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the preference score comprises: recording, by a microphone, a voice of the user; assigning a third preference metric based on the recorded voice; and aggregating at least the user input, the first preference metric, the second preference metric, and the third preference metric.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the preference score comprises: receiving a history of a plurality of transactions associated with the user; and generating the preference score based at least on the transaction history.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the transaction history comprises at least one of: time spent before making the transactions; or degrees of assistance received before making the transactions.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the preference score comprises: comparing the user input, the first preference metric, and the second preference metric to a priority level hierarchy; determining priority levels associated with the user input, the first preference metric, and the second preference metric; and weighting the user input, the first preference metric, and the second preference metric based on the determined priority levels.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the mobile device and the remote device comprises at least one of a smartphone, a tablet, a wearable device, or a virtual reality headset.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first and second sensors are implemented in the same sensor.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the preference score comprises an indication of a degree of customer service assistance to be offered to the user.
10. A system for providing a customized user experience, comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: recognize, by at least one sensor at a predetermined location, a presence of a user; request, from a mobile device associated with the user, a preference score associated with the user; generate the preference score by: recording a video of the user; separating the video into a plurality of video frames; and matching the video frames to frames of facial expressions stored in a database; receive, by the processor, the preference score; and transmit, by the processor, the preference score to a remote device for display.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the sensor is a Bluetooth low-energy beacon.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the sensor is an RFID device.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the sensor is a wireless sensor.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein recognizing the presence of the user further comprises receiving an electromagnetic signal from the mobile device.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: record, by an image sensor, a video of the user; separate the video into a plurality of video frames; and process the video frames, by a machine-learning algorithm operating on the processor, to match the video frames to a corresponding user emotion stored in the memory.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein generating the preference score comprises generating the preference score based on a history of a plurality of transactions associated with the user.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the transaction history comprises at least one of: time spent before making the transactions; or degrees of assistance received before making the transactions.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein generating the preference score comprises generating the preference score based on a voice recorded by a microphone.
19. The system of claim 10, wherein generating the preference score comprises generating a preference score comprising an indication of a degree of customer service assistance to be offered to the user.
20. A computer-implemented method of providing a customized user experience, the method comprising: receiving, from a graphical user interface displayed on a mobile device, a user input indicative of a preferred level of interaction by the user; determining an emotion of the user, wherein determining the emotion comprises: recording, by an image sensor, a video of the user; separating the video into a plurality of video frames; and processing the video frames, by a machine-learning algorithm, to match the video frames to a corresponding frames of facial expression stored in a database; assigning a first preference metric based on the determined emotion; generating a preference score by aggregating at least the user input and the first preference metric; storing the preference score in a central database; and displaying the preference score, wherein the preference score is used to modify a customer service experience.
</claims>
</document>
