<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUO, TZU MING
LIU, JINGYUAN
LUO, XIAOQIANG
OLIVA, MARCELLO
XU, YUNPENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING TECHNIQUES FOR AUTOMATIC VALIDATION OF EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are provided for automatic identification, extraction, and validation of data pertaining to receiving entity events (REE). Feature (or attribute) values associated with web content are identified. The web content may contain news and features on current/past affairs. The identified feature values are considered by a rule-based or a machine-learned model and, based upon output of the model, a determination as to whether the set of data comprises a REE is made. If the determination is positive, then multiple data items are extracted from the set of data and, optionally, from other data from the source.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: storing training data that comprises a plurality of training instances, each of which includes a plurality of feature values and a label that indicates whether the training instance pertains to an event of a particular type; using one or more machine learning techniques to train a classification model based on the training data; identifying a first plurality of feature values of a sequence of tokens associated with web content; based on the first plurality of feature values, determining whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type; wherein determining comprises inserting the first plurality of feature values into the classification model that generates an output that indicates whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type; in response to determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, extracting, from the sequence of tokens, a plurality of data items that includes an indication of a receiving entity and a quantity; storing, in a record, the indication of the receiving entity and the quantity associated with the event; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the sequence of tokens for one or more term frequency values indicative of a number of occurrences of a n-gram in the sequence of tokens; wherein the first plurality of feature values includes the one or more term frequency values.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to the event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on one or more criteria, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more criteria include a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with the web content, a stock symbol associated with the web content, a geographic location associated with the web content, or based on a domain name associated with the web content.
5. A method comprising: identifying a first plurality of feature values of a sequence of tokens associated with web content; based on the first plurality of feature values, determining whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of a particular type; in response to determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, extracting, from the sequence of tokens, a plurality of data items that includes an indication of a receiving entity and a quantity; storing, in a record, the indication of the receiving entity, the quantity, and a date associated with the event; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: storing training data that comprises a plurality of training instances, each of which includes a second plurality of feature values and a label that indicates whether the training instance pertains to an event of the particular type; using one or more machine learning techniques to train a classification model based on the training data; wherein making the determination comprises inserting the first plurality of feature values into the classification model that generates an output that indicates whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: analyzing the sequence of tokens for one or more term frequency values indicative of a number of occurrences of a n-gram in the sequence of tokens; inserting the one or more term frequency values into the classification model.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, determining, based on the sequence of tokens, a round type associated with the receiving entity event; storing the round type in the record.
9. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
10. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a stock symbol associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
11. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a geographic location associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
12. The method of claim 5, further comprising: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same entity name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a domain name associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of the receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
13. One or more storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: identifying a first plurality of feature values of a sequence of tokens associated with web content; based on the first plurality of feature values, determining whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of a particular type; in response to determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, extracting, from the sequence of tokens, a plurality of data items that includes an indication of a receiving entity and a quantity; storing, in a record, the indication of the receiving entity, the quantity, and a date associated with the event.
14. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: storing training data that comprises a plurality of training instances, each of which includes a second plurality of feature values and a label that indicates whether the training instance pertains to an event of the particular type; using one or more machine learning techniques to train a classification model based on the training data; wherein making the determination comprises inserting the first plurality of feature values into the classification model that generates an output that indicates whether the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type.
15. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: analyzing the sequence of tokens for one or more term frequency values indicative of a number of occurrences of a n-gram in the sequence of tokens; inserting the one or more term frequency values into the classification model.
16. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, determining, based on the sequence of tokens, a round type associated with the receiving entity event; storing the round type in the record.
17. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
18. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a stock symbol associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
19. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a geographic location associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
20. The one or more storage media of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: after determining that the sequence of tokens pertains to an event of the particular type, identifying a name of the receiving entity; determining that a plurality of entities in an entity database share the same entity name, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with a different unique identifier; determining, based on a domain name associated with the web content, a particular unique identifier for the receiving entity; wherein storing the indication of receiving entity in the record comprises storing the particular unique identifier of the receiving entity in the record.
</claims>
</document>
