<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/398,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/08,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SANDISK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHU, CHENG-CHUNG
LINNEN, DANIEL J.
George, Janet
Ghai, Ashish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046463
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMPLEMENTATION OF DEEP NEURAL NETWORKS FOR TESTING AND QUALITY CONTROL IN THE PRODUCTION OF MEMORY DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are presented for the application of neural networks to the fabrication of integrated circuits and electronic devices, where example are given for the fabrication of non-volatile memory circuits and the mounting of circuit components on the printed circuit board of a solid state drive (SSD). The techniques include the generation of high precision masks suitable for analyzing electron microscope images of feature of integrated circuits and of handling the training of the neural network when the available training data set is sparse through use of a generative adversary network (GAN).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging; generating electron microscope images of the first plurality of prepared samples of the integrated circuit; training a neural network to generate pixel level masks of features of the first plurality of the samples of the integrated circuit from the electron microscope images; applying the trained neural network to one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit to generate pixel level masks of features of the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit; analyzing results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit; adjusting processing for fabrication of the integrated circuit based upon the analyzing of the results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit; and fabricating the integrated circuit by the adjusted processing.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: fabricating a plurality of integrated circuits; and paring down the integrated circuits to a desire level.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: forming a photoresist on a plurality of integrated circuits, wherein the features include a dimension of the photoresist.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: fabricating a plurality of integrated circuits each having a plurality of layers formed upon a substrate and a plurality of holes extending through one or more of the layers, wherein the features include uniformity of the holes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: fabricating a plurality of integrated circuits each having a plurality of layers formed upon a substrate and a plurality of holes extending through one or more of the layers, wherein the features include the shape of the holes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: fabricating a plurality of integrated circuits each having a plurality transistors formed thereon, wherein the features include uniformity a gate of the transistors.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated circuit is formed to be one of a bonded die pair and the features include contacts for exchanging electrical signals between dies of the bonded die pair.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the trained neural network to one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit is performed as part of a failure analysis process.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: subsequent to adjusting processing for fabrication of the integrated circuit, applying the trained neural network to one or more samples of the integrated circuit fabricated according to the adjusted processing to generate pixel level masks of features of the one or more samples of the integrated circuit fabricated according to the adjusted processing; and analyzing results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit fabricated according to the adjusted processing.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: further adjusting processing for fabrication of the integrated circuit based upon the analyzing of the results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit fabricated according to the adjusted processing.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: augmenting the samples of the integrated circuits with images generated by a generative adversary network.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein augmenting the samples of the integrated circuits is performed in response to determining that the first plurality of samples of the integrated circuit are a sparse set of sample.
13. A method, comprising: preparing multiple instances of a circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards; generating photographic images of the prepared multiple instances of a circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards; generating artificial images of multiple instances of the circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards; training a neural network on a combination of the photographic images and the artificial images of multiple instances of a circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards; applying the trained neural network to one or more additional instances of the circuit element mounted to a circuit board; analyzing results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional instances of the circuit element mounted to a circuit board; and determining whether one or more of the additional instances of the circuit element are defectively mounted to the circuit board.
14. The method of claim 13, determining whether one or more of the additional instances of the circuit elements defectively mounted to the circuit board includes determining whether the determining whether one or more of the additional instances of the circuit element are mounted to the circuit board with a correct orientation.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the circuit element is a capacitor.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein generating artificial images of the prepared multiple instances of a circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards includes generating defective instances of a circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein generating artificial images of multiple instances of the circuit element mounted onto one or more circuit boards includes generating the artificial images by a generative adversary network.
18. A method, comprising: preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging; generating electron microscope images of the first plurality of prepared samples of the integrated circuit; training a neural network to generate pixel level masks of features of the first plurality of the samples of the integrated circuit from the electron microscope images, comprising: generating pixel level feature maps of the first plurality of the samples of the integrated circuit from the electron microscope images; generating bounding box predictions from the pixel level feature maps; introducing added error into the bounding box predictions; locating regions of interest within the pixel level feature maps; and generating the pixel level masks of features of the first plurality of the samples of the integrated circuits for the located regions of interest from the bounding box predictions with the introduced added error; applying the trained neural network to one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit to generate pixel level masks of features of the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit from the bounding box predictions with the introduced added error; analyzing results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit; adjusting processing for fabrication of the integrated circuit based upon the analyzing of the results of the application of the trained neural network to the one or more additional samples of the integrated circuit; and fabricating the integrated circuit by the adjusted processing.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein preparing a first plurality of samples of an integrated circuit for imaging includes: fabricating a plurality of integrated circuits each having a plurality of layers formed upon a substrate and a plurality of holes extending through one or more of the layers, wherein the features include uniformity of the holes.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the integrated circuit is formed to be one of a bonded die pair and the features include contacts for exchanging electrical signals between dies of the bonded die pair.
</claims>
</document>
