<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/11,H04B17/24,H04B7/0456,H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
CHOPRA, ADITYA
AKOUM, SALAM
WANG, XIAOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406575
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generic feedback to enable reciprocity and over the air calibration for advanced networks
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating generic feedback to enable reciprocity and over the air calibration for advanced networks (e.g., 4G, 5G, and beyond) is provided herein. Operations of a system can comprise selecting information to include in a channel state information feedback report based on a feedback instance. The operations can also comprise generating the channel state information feedback report as a function of channel statistics of channels. Further, the operations can comprise transmitting the channel state information feedback report to a network device of a communications network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: selecting information to include in a channel state information feedback report based on a feedback instance; generating the channel state information feedback report as a function of channel statistics of channels; and transmitting the channel state information feedback report to a network device of a communications network.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise defining a feedback container between the network device and a mobile device, and wherein the feedback container carries channel state information.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the channel state information carried by the feedback container is configured to be utilized by the network device for over-the-air calibration.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the feedback container comprises a channel covariance matrix combined with channel state information feedback information.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the channel state information feedback report excludes preconfigured channel state information report content.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the channel state information feedback report is an on-demand compressed channel state information feedback report.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: prior to the selecting the information, receiving a request from the network device for the channel state information feedback report.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise decomposing the channels into a product of domain components comprising an azimuth domain, a vertical domain, and an uncorrelated domain.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the azimuth domain is configured to track an azimuth direction, the vertical domain is configured to track a vertical direction, and the uncorrelated domain is configured to track non-uniformity in an antenna array structure and a cross-polarization.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise separately characterizing the azimuth domain, the vertical domain, and the uncorrelated domain based on respective channel state information feedback processes.
11. A method, comprising: selecting, by a mobile device comprising a processor, channel state information for inclusion in a feedback report based on a request for the feedback report, wherein the request is received from a network device of a communications network, and wherein the channel state information is selected based on conditions at the mobile device at a time when the request was received; generating, by the mobile device, the feedback report with selected channel state information; and facilitating, by the mobile device, transmitting the feedback report to the network device in response to the request.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the selecting the channel state information comprises: defining a feedback container that carries the channel state information; and conveying a definition of the feedback container to the network device.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: combining, by the mobile device, a channel covariance matrix and the channel state information as combined information; and including, by the mobile device, the combined information in a feedback container, wherein the combined information is utilized to mitigate an amount of overhead as compared with utilizing separate channels to convey the channel covariance matrix and the channel state information.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising decomposing, by the mobile device, a channel into an azimuth domain, a vertical domain, and an uncorrelated domain.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the azimuth domain is configured to track an azimuth direction, the vertical domain is configured to track a vertical direction, and the uncorrelated domain is configured to track non-uniformity in an antenna array structure and a cross-polarization.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: separately characterizing, by the mobile device, the azimuth domain, the vertical domain, and the uncorrelated domain based on respective channel state information feedback processes.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a request for a report received from a network device of a communications network, selecting a format for the report comprising channel state information; defining a feedback container to send to the network device, wherein the feedback container carries channel state information; generating the report based on channel statistics currently available and the feedback container; and sending the report to the network device in response to the request.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: decomposing a channel into domain components comprising an azimuth domain, a vertical domain, and an uncorrelated domain, wherein the azimuth domain is configured to track an azimuth direction, the vertical domain is configured to track a vertical direction, and the uncorrelated domain is configured to track non-uniformity in an antenna array structure and a cross-polarization.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: decomposing a channel into domain components comprising an azimuth domain, a vertical domain, and an uncorrelated domain; and separately characterizing the azimuth domain, the vertical domain, and the uncorrelated domain based on respective channel state information feedback processes.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: combining a channel covariance matrix and the channel state information as combined information; and including the combined information in the feedback container, wherein the combined information is utilized to mitigate an amount of overhead as compared with utilizing separate channels to convey the channel covariance matrix and the channel state information.
</claims>
</document>
