<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRAGDON, ANDREW CRAIG
MANZANO, IGNACIO AGUSTIN
NARASIMHAN, Balasubramanian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832492
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOG TOKENIZATION IN AN INTEGRATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are system, method, and device embodiments for implementing log tokenization in an integration platform system. An integration platform may provide a declaratively-configurable logger asset for deployment in an integration-application design tool, and package the declaratively configurable logger asset in an integration application at least partially built via the integration-application design tool. In addition, the integration application may identify sensitive information in original log data of the integration application, and generate modified log data based on tokenization of the sensitive information. Further, the integration application may log the modified log data into a log file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: providing, by an integration platform, a declaratively configurable logger asset for deployment in an integration-application design tool; packaging, by the integration platform, the declaratively configurable logger asset in an integration application at least partially built via the integration-application design tool; identifying sensitive information in original log data of the integration application; generating modified log data based on tokenization of the sensitive information; logging, by the declaratively configurable logger asset, the modified log data into a log file during an execution of the integration application; and wherein at least one of the providing, packaging, identifying, generating, and logging are performed by one or more processors.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting the modified log data via the integration platform.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application comprises: receiving a logging policy indicating a type of the sensitive information; and identifying an instance of the type of the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensitive information is first sensitive information, the original log data is first original log data, the modified log data is first modified log data, and further comprising: receiving, during the execution of the integration application, selection of a tokenization setting associated with second sensitive information; identifying the second sensitive information in second original log data of the integration application; generating second modified log data based on tokenization of the second sensitive information; and logging, by the declaratively configurable logger asset, the second modified log data into the log file.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensitive information is first sensitive information, and further comprising: receiving, during execution of the integration application, deselection of a tokenization setting associated with a type of second sensitive information; and suspending, by the integration application, tokenization of instances of the type of second sensitive information based on the deselection.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the modified log data based on the tokenization of the sensitive information comprises: determining a shape of the sensitive information; generating a token value based on the shape of the sensitive information; and determining the modified log data based on replacing at least a portion of the sensitive information with the token value within the original log data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the modified log data based on the tokenization of the sensitive information comprises: determining a shape of the sensitive information; determining that the sensitive information has an invalid format; generating a token value based on the invalid format and the shape; and determining the modified log data based on replacing at least a portion of the sensitive information with the token value within the original log data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensitive information includes at least one of personally identifiable information, authentication verifiers, medical information, payment card information, financial account information, a device identifier, an internet protocol addresses, a media access control address, a serial number, or a social security number.
9. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: provide, by an integration platform, a declaratively configurable logger asset for deployment in an integration-application design tool; package, by the integration platform, the declaratively configurable logger asset in an integration application at least partially built via the integration-application design tool; identify sensitive information in original log data of the integration application; generate modified log data based on tokenization of the sensitive information; and log, by the declaratively configurable logger asset, the modified log data into a log file during an execution of the integration application.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein to identify the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application, the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, by the integration platform, a logging policy indicating a type of the sensitive information; and identify an instance of the type of the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensitive information is first sensitive information, the original log data is first original log data, the modified log data is first modified log data, and the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, during the execution of the integration application, selection of a tokenization setting associated with second sensitive information; identify the second sensitive information in second original log data of the integration application; generate second modified log data based on tokenization of the second sensitive information; and log, by the declaratively configurable logger asset, the second modified log data into the log file.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein to identify the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application, the at least one processor is further configured to: receive a logging policy indicating a type of the sensitive information; and identify an instance of the type of the sensitive information in the original log data of the integration application.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensitive information is first sensitive information, and the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, during execution of the integration application, deselection of a tokenization setting associated with a type of second sensitive information; and suspend, by the integration application, tokenization of instances of the type of second sensitive information based on the deselection.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein to generate the modified log data based on the tokenization of the sensitive information, the at least one processor is further configured to: determine a shape of the sensitive information; generate a token value based on the shape of the sensitive information; and determine the modified log data based on replacing at least a portion of the sensitive information with the token value within the original log data.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein to generate the modified log data based on the tokenization of the sensitive information, the at least one processor is further configured to: determine a shape of the sensitive information; determine that the sensitive information has an invalid format; generate a token value based on the invalid format and the shape; and determine the modified log data based on replacing at least a portion of the sensitive information with the token value within the original log data.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensitive information includes at least one of personally identifiable information, authentication verifiers, medical information, payment card information, financial account information, a device identifier, an internet protocol addresses, a media access control address, a serial number, or a social security number.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one computing device, causes the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: providing, by an integration platform, a declaratively configurable logger asset for deployment in an integration-application design tool; packaging, by the integration platform, the declaratively configurable logger asset in an integration application at least partially built via the integration-application design tool; generating, by another declaratively configurable asset of the integration application, an event message including sensitive information; identifying the sensitive information within the event message; generating a token value based on tokenization of the sensitive information; and logging, by the declaratively configurable logger asset, the token value into a log file.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 17, wherein generating the token value based on the tokenization of the sensitive information comprises: determining a shape of the sensitive information; and generating the token value based on the shape of the sensitive information.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 17, wherein generating the token value based on the tokenization of the sensitive information comprises: determining a shape of the sensitive information; determining that the sensitive information has an invalid format; generating the token value based on the invalid format and the shape; and determining the modified log data based on replacing at least a portion of the sensitive information with the token value within the original log data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable device of claim 17, wherein the another declaratively-configurable asset includes at least one of a connector asset, scope asset, component asset, transformer asset, filter asset, flow control asset, or error handling asset.
</claims>
</document>
