<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WINVIEW
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOCKTON, DAVID, B.
LOCKTON, KATHY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70050978
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEMS FOR REDUCING RISK IN SETTING ODDS FOR SINGLE FIXED IN-PLAY PROPOSITIONS UTILIZING REAL TIME INPUT
</title>

<abstract>
A skill game operator provides real time propositions to a viewing audience, and based on the input received from those propositions, comparable In-Play wagering propositions are able to be generated, and the odds of the In-Play propositions are able to be accurately adjusted based on the actual input received from the same participating audience the skill game operator's responses to the same propositions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method programmed in a non-transitory memory of a device for interaction with televised events comprising: providing one or more real-time skill game propositions; receiving selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions relating to the events; and providing odds for one or more In-Play live betting propositions based on a response to the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising developing the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein developing the odds for one or more real-time live betting propositions comprises utilizing artificial intelligence or analytics to automatically acquire real time statistical information from the concurrent real time skill contest.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein providing the one or more real-time skill game propositions comprises displaying the one or more real-time skill game propositions simultaneously with an underlying broadcast of an event.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein receiving the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions includes receiving input from end user devices.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising real-time processing the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein processing includes determining percentages of the selections.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein providing the odds for one or more In-Play live betting propositions includes adjusting previously determined odds based on the percentages of the concurrent skill game selections.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising providing the one or more In-Play betting propositions.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein an In-Play betting proposition is presented initially without the odds, and then after the information related to real-time skill game propositions is received and processed, the odds are presented.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to a live esports tournament.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more non-athletic, televised events.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more occurrences.
14. A system comprising: a skill game server device configured to provide real-time skill game propositions; and a real-time server device configured to receive responses related to the real-time skill game propositions from the skill game server device and provide In-Play betting propositions, wherein odds for the In-Play proposition is determined based on the information received by the real-time server related to the real-time response to the same skill game proposition.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the skill game server device is further configured for developing the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein developing the one or more real-time skill game propositions comprises utilizing analytical software including artificial intelligence to automatically acquire statistical information utilized by human game producers to provide propositions and set accompanying odds.
17. The system of claim 16 where a database and real-time data from the competitors' responses to the propositions in the skill games are processed by dedicated computers running programs utilizing, artificial intelligence and machine learning to generate an archival database continually utilized by the live sports betting system to improve performance in odds setting accuracy.
18. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time server device is further configured for providing the one or more real-time skill game propositions which comprises displaying the one or more real-time skill game propositions simultaneously with an underlying broadcast of an event.
19. The system of claim 14 wherein receiving the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions includes receiving input from end user devices.
20. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time server device is further configured for simultaneous processing of the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
21. The system of claim 20 wherein processing includes determining the percentages of the alternative selections to the propositions.
22. The system of claim 21 wherein the real-time server device is further configured for providing the odds for one or more In-Play betting propositions including adjusting previously determined odds based on the percentages of the concurrent selections by the skill contest competitors.
23. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time server device is further configured for providing the same one or more In-Play betting propositions through receipt of real time data from the skill game operator game server.
24. The system of claim 14 wherein an In-Play betting proposition is presented initially without the odds, and then after the information related to real-time skill game propositions is received, the odds are presented.
25. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time skill game propositions are related to a live esports tournament.
26. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more non-athletic, televised events.
27. The system of claim 14 wherein the real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more occurrences.
28. The system of claim 14 wherein data generated by the real-time server is sent to the skill game server to enable more controlled, faster and more predictable odds-setting procedures to provide entertainment in addition to skill game odds.
29. A server device comprising: a memory configured for storing an application in connection with observation of a competition, the application configured for: providing one or more real-time skill game propositions; receiving selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions; and providing odds for one or more In-Play propositions based on the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions; and a processor configured for processing the application.
30. The server device of claim 29 wherein the application is further configured for developing the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
31. The server device of claim 30 wherein developing the one or more real-time skill game propositions comprises utilizing artificial intelligence or analytics to automatically acquire statistical information.
32. The server device of claim 29 wherein providing the one or more real-time skill game propositions comprises displaying the one or more real-time skill game propositions simultaneously with an underlying broadcast of an event.
33. The server device of claim 29 wherein receiving the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions includes receiving input from end user devices.
34. The server device of claim 29 wherein the application is further configured for processing the selections to the one or more real-time skill game propositions.
35. The server device of claim 34 wherein processing includes determining percentages of the competitor's selections.
36. The server device of claim 35 wherein providing the odds for one or more In-Play propositions includes real-time adjustment of previously recommended odds based on analysis of the percentages of the selections by the skill game competitors.
37. The server device of claim 29 wherein the application is further configured for providing the one or more In-Play propositions.
38. The server device of claim 29 wherein an In-Play proposition is presented initially without the odds, and then after the information related to real-time skill game propositions is received, the odds are presented.
39. The server device of claim 29 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to a live esports tournament.
40. The server device of claim 29 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more non-athletic, televised events.
41. The server device of claim 29 wherein the one or more real-time skill game propositions are related to one or more occurrences.
42. 42-79. (canceled)
80. The method of claim 1 wherein the odds for the one or more In-Play live betting propositions are further based on an expert panel or a subset of viewers of the live event.
81. The system of claim 14 wherein the odds for the In-Play proposition are further based on an expert panel or a subset of viewers of the live event.
82. The server device of claim 29 wherein the odds for the one or more In-Play propositions are further based on an expert panel or a subset of viewers of the live event.
83. The method of claim 1 further comprising equalizing the one or more real-time skill game propositions wherein variances in receipt of the televised events by participants are utilized for equalizing locking out the participants, wherein equalizing the one or more real-time skill game propositions includes input from a person in physical attendance at a venue corresponding to the event.
</claims>
</document>
