<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOKEL, RYAN
BOURCELOT, RUDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604326
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC ADJUSTMENT OF SERVICE CAPACITY
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for estimating capacity need in a service network and for dynamically adjusting resources to meet the estimated capacity. When an enterprise is contacted by a user with an issue, a service system determines an intent of the contact. The service system then determines if the issue is something that may arise with a significant number of users in the foreseeable future. Once the service system knows how many users with a similar issue may be contacting the enterprise, the service system makes a determination as to the capacity the service system has to handle the specific issue and the number of user communications. This is accomplished by searches of agent profiles to determine which agents have the ability to resolve the intent. Agents so identified are added to the capacity until the capacity is great enough to handle the expected user communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a user communication from an electronic device at a cellular network; determining, at the cellular network, one or more intent parameters of the user communication; estimating, at the cellular network, an amount of future user communications each having at least one similar intent parameter to the one or more intent parameters; evaluating, at the cellular network, a capacity of a service system of the cellular network to handle the estimated amount of future user communications, the capacity including a number of agents that are available to resolve issues in the estimated amount of future user communications; and in response to the estimated amount exceeding the evaluated capacity, increasing, at the cellular network, the capacity of the service system with additional agents that are capable of resolving the issues.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein evaluating a capacity of the service system comprises correlating the one or more intent parameters to agent profiles and identifying agents that have skills related to the one or more intent parameters.
3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the increasing the capacity of the service system comprises: using the agent profiles to identify particular agents that can handle the future user communications; and adding at least some of the identified particular agents to the capacity.
4. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the increasing capacity of the service system comprises: identifying particular agents that can handle the future user communications if the particular agents have guidance materials; and adding a number of the identified particular agents to the capacity.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the determining the one or more intent parameters comprises: identifying data related to the electronic device or a user associated with the electronic device; and storing at least some of the data related to the electronic device or the user in an intent parameters array.
6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the data related to the electronic device of the user comprises one or more of the following types of data: device data; network data; user history data; user account data; or event data.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the evaluating the capacity of the service system comprises correlating the one or more intent parameters to agent profiles that identify skills possessed by respective agents.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and memory storing components executable or accessible by the processor, the components comprising: an intent parameters array that stores one or more intent parameters associated with a user communication; a network capacity evaluator configured to estimate a number of future user communications each having at least one similar intent parameter to the one or more intent parameters to be received by a service system, and to evaluate a capacity of user support agents of the service system to handle the estimated number of future user communications; and a network capacity adjuster configured to identify additional agents that have appropriate skills to handle the future user communications and increasing the capacity of the service system with the identified additional agents if the estimated number of future user communications exceeds the capacity.
9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein identifying additional agents that have appropriate skills to handle the future user communications comprises identifying additional agents who have previous experience resolving user communications with the one or more intent parameters.
10. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein identifying additional agents that have appropriate skills to the future user communications comprises identifying additional agents who have skills related to one or more intent parameters.
11. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein identifying additional agents that have appropriate skills to handle the future communications comprises identifying additional agents who have skills to resolve specific user communications with the one or more intent parameters if instructions are provided to the additional agents.
12. The system as recited in claim 8, further comprising an intent determiner configured to identify the one or more intent parameters associated with the user communication and to store intent parameters in the intent parameters array.
13. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein identified intent parameters are one or more of the following types of data: device data; network data; user history data; user account data; or event data.
14. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media including computer-executable instructions that, when executed, perform the following: receiving a user communication from an electronic device in communication with a cellular network; determining one or more intent parameters of the user communication that identify data related to the user communication; estimating a number of future user communications each having at least one similar intent parameter to the one or more intent parameters; evaluating a capacity of a service system of the cellular network to handle the estimated amount of future user communications, the capacity including a number of agents that are available to resolve issues in the estimated amount of future user communications; and in response to the estimated number of future user communications exceeding the evaluated capacity, increasing capacity of the service system with additional agents that are capable of resolving the issues.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 14, wherein evaluating a capacity of the service system comprises correlating the one or more intent parameters to agent profiles and identifying agents that have skills related to the one or more intent parameters.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 15, wherein the increasing capacity of the service system comprises: using the agent profiles to identify particular agents that can handle the future user communications; and adding at least some of the identified particular agents to the capacity.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 14, wherein the increasing capacity of the service system comprises: identifying particular agents that can handle the user communications if the particular agents have guidance materials; and adding a number of the identified particular agents to the capacity.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 14, wherein the determining the one or more intent parameters comprises: identifying data related to the electronic device or a user associated with the electronic device; and storing at least some of the data related to the electronic device or the user in an intent parameters array.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 18, wherein the data related to the electronic device of the user comprises one or more of the following types of data: device data; network data; user history data; user account data; or event data.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media as recited in claim 14, wherein the evaluating the capacity of the service system comprises correlating the one or more intent parameters to agent profiles that identify skills possessed by respective agents.
</claims>
</document>
