<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/216,G06F40/295,G06F40/30,G06F40/56,G06N3/00,G10L19/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUNGLE DISK
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEFELICE, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67393495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Collating information from multiple sources to create actionable categories and associated suggested actions
</title>

<abstract>
A personality model is created for a population and used as an input to a text generation system. Alternative texts are created based upon the emotional effect of the generated text. Certain words or phrases are "pinned" in the output, reducing the variability of the generated text so as to preserve required information content, and a number of tests provide input to a discriminator network so that proposed outputs both match an outside objective regarding the information content, emotional affect, and grammatical acceptability. A feedback loop provides new "ground truth" data points for refining the personality model and associated generated text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-7. (canceled)
1. A method for generating natural language, the method comprising: building a quantitative personality model of a target, by correlating known information about the target with a set of relatively mutually orthogonal personality traits, and creating a vector representation of the estimated expression of each trait in the quantitative personality model of the target; encoding a source text as a sequence of weights on a pre-built conditional text model; using the conditional text model and the quantitative personality model to create a generated text with approximately equal semantic content but differing syntax and word choice; wherein the quantitative personality model is provided as an input to the decoder, and wherein the syntax and word choice of the generated text varies as a function of the expression of the quantitative personality model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the encoder-decoder further includes an attention mechanism, wherein the attention mechanism applies varying weight to different types of syntax and word choice depending upon the input personality model.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising coupling an evaluator to the encoder and decoder, the evaluator providing a personality score reflecting the association of the language use in the generated text with the personality model input to the decoder; and providing the personality score to the decoder; and updating the internal weights associated with the decoder to reinforce high personality association and to discourage lower personality association.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein building a quantitative personality model of a target includes one of a correlating differently-expressed but semantically similar information, recognizing named entities within the input, disambiguating information references, segmenting data based upon one or more characteristics, estimating one or more values, and categorizing one or more inputs.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing the generated text to a representative of the modeled prospect class and using the response of the representative to update the prospect model.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the prospect model is updated proportionally to the receptiveness of the representative to the text.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the prospect model is updated based on the estimated measurement of one or more personality traits.
8. A system for quantitative estimation of one or more personality traits, the system comprising: a storage operable to store or retrieve a set of data associated with a particular target personality to be modeled; a prospect information fusion component operable to receive a first set of inputs associated with the particular target personality; an integrator correlating two or more data inputs having substantially similar objective semantic content and substituting a common representation for the two or more pieces of information; a disambiguator classifying two or more data inputs as referring to the same or different real-world entities; a prospect modeling component, operable to associate stored data about the target with a conditional probability that one or more traits are expressed by the target from a set of relatively mutually orthogonal personality traits, resulting a vector representation of the estimated expression of each trait in the quantitative personality model of the target; wherein one or more of the prospect information fusion component, the integrator, and the disambiguator is operable to do one of retrieve information from the storage, modify the representation of the data, and store an updated representation of the data in the storage; and wherein the system iteratively applies one or more of the prospect information fusion component, the integrator, the disambiguator, to data in the storage; and wherein the vector representation of the estimated expression of each trait in the quantitative personality model is updated after each iteration.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising a segmentation component grouping data according to one or more common characteristics; and wherein the system iteratively applies the segmentation component at least once to update information in the storage.
10. The system of claim 8, further comprising a imputation component estimating at least one unknown value and storing the estimated value; and wherein the system iteratively applies the imputation component at least once to update information in the storage.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein one or more of the inputs provided to the prospect information fusion component includes a confidence representation, wherein the confidence representation represents the conditional probability that the input is representative of the target personality.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the system further includes an information update component that receives a second set of inputs associated with the particular target personality to be modeled, and either updates
13. The system of claim 8, further including a classifier separating one or more elements in the set of data into objective and subjective classifications, wherein the prospect information fusion component stores objective and subjective information differently.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the integrator includes a named entity recognition component.
15. The system of claim 8, wherein the particular target personality is a single identified person.
16. The system of claim 8, wherein the particular target personality is representative of a class of persons sharing one or more similar characteristics according to the quantitative personality model.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the quantitative personality model representative of a class of persons is used to provide initial estimates for the values in a second quantitative personality model representative of a single identified person.
</claims>
</document>
