<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06N20/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASAPP
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRANAVAN, SATCHUTHANANTHAVALE RASIAH KUHAN
LEI, TAO
FOX, CHRISTOPHER DAVID
HACKMAN, JOSEPH ELLSWORTH
Weese, Jonathan David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INITIALIZATION OF AUTOMATED WORKFLOWS
</title>

<abstract>
A company may implement automated workflows for convenience of users or to reduce support costs. For example, allowing a user to change an address using an automated workflow may be faster or less expensive than with a human agent. In some instances, a first communications session may be started between a first user and a second user. During the first communications session, one or more communications may be processed to select an intent of the first user and a value of an information item communicated by the first user. An automated workflow may be selected to continue assisting the first user, and the first user may be transferred to a second communications session with the automated workflow. The automated workflow may be initialized with the value of the information item that was provided during the first communications session so that the first user does not need to repeat information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for implementing an automated workflow, the method comprising: creating a first communications session between a first user and a second user; processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to select a first intent from a plurality of possible intents; processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to recognize a first value corresponding to a first information item; selecting a first automated workflow from a plurality of automated workflows using the first intent, wherein the first automated workflow comprises a plurality of information items and logic for obtaining values for the plurality of information items from the first user; determining that the first automated workflow includes the first information item; updating the first automated workflow to include the first value for the first information item; transferring the first user to a second communications session with the first automated workflow; implementing the first automated workflow with the first user, wherein implementing the first automated workflow comprises bypassing logic for requesting a value for the first information item; and completing a first operation using information obtained from the first automated workflow.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: presenting a suggestion to the second user to transfer the first user to the second communications session; and receiving an indication from the second user to transfer the first user to the second communications session.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: presenting an indication of the first intent and the first information item to the second user; and presenting a button to the second user to allow the second user to cause the first operation to be performed.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to select the first intent comprises processing the one or more communications with a machine learning model.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to recognize the first value corresponding to the first information item comprises processing the one or more communications using named entity recognition.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first communications session and the second communications session are over a text channel.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first automated workflow comprises a directed graph.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second user does not participate in the second communications session.
9. A system for implementing an automated workflow, the system comprising: at least one server computer comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one server computer configured to: create a first communications session between a first user and a second user; process one or more communications between the first user and the second user to select a first intent from a plurality of possible intents; process one or more communications between the first user and the second user to recognize a first value corresponding to a first information item; select a first automated workflow from a plurality of automated workflows using the first intent, wherein the first automated workflow comprises a plurality of information items and logic for obtaining values for the plurality of information items from the first user; determine that the first automated workflow includes the first information item; update the first automated workflow to include the first value for the first information item; transfer the first user to a second communications session with the first automated workflow; implement the first automated workflow with the first user, wherein implementing the first automated workflow comprises bypassing logic for requesting a value for the first information item; and complete a first operation using information obtained from the first automated workflow.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first communications session is over a voice channel and the second communications session is over a text channel.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to: store first machine learning model data from the first communications session to a data store; and obtain the first machine learning model data from the data store during the second communications session.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first machine learning model data comprises a state of a neuron or an output of a machine learning model.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the first user is a customer of a company and the second user is providing customer support to the first user.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to implement the first automated workflow with the first user by: receiving a first communication from the first user during the second communications session; selecting a first action of a plurality of actions by processing the first communication with the first automated workflow; obtaining a first channel action implementation from a plurality of first channel action implementations using the first action; transmitting a first response to the first user using the first channel action implementation;
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to recognize the first value corresponding to the first information item by processing the one or more communications using named entity recognition.
16. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable media comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to perform actions comprising: creating a first communications session between a first user and a second user; processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to select a first intent from a plurality of possible intents; processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to recognize a first value corresponding to a first information item; selecting a first automated workflow from a plurality of automated workflows using the first intent, wherein the first automated workflow comprises a plurality of information items and logic for obtaining values for the plurality of information items from the first user; determining that the first automated workflow includes the first information item; updating the first automated workflow to include the first value for the first information item; transferring the first user to a second communications session with the first automated workflow; implementing the first automated workflow with the first user, wherein implementing the first automated workflow comprises bypassing logic for requesting a value for the first information item; and completing a first operation using information obtained from the first automated workflow.
17. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the actions comprise: storing first session data from the first communications session to a data store; and using the first session data during the second communications session.
18. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the session data comprises a state of the first automated workflow.
19. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein processing one or more communications between the first user and the second user to select the first intent comprises processing the one or more communications with a machine learning model.
20. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the first automated workflow comprises a directed graph.
</claims>
</document>
