<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/10,G06T19/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Rawhide Intel Services Inc.
Drone Technology LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Hillegas, James
Charvat, Robert Cesar
Mandell, Steven L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606294
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR STRUCTURE INSPECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for structure inspection includes the steps of: selecting a structure; providing a vehicle having an imaging device; moving the vehicle in proximity of the structure; capturing two-dimensional images of surfaces of the structure with the imaging device; storing the two-dimensional images, wherein each image includes associated position information related to the surface; producing a three-dimensional virtual model from the stored two-dimensional images; displaying the three-dimensional virtual model on a user device; selecting a location on the display of the three-dimensional model; using the selected location to identify a corresponding one of the stored position information associated with at least one of the two-dimensional images; and displaying the at least one two-dimensional image on the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for structure inspection, the method comprising the steps of: selecting a structure having a surface to be inspected; providing a vehicle having an imaging device for generating two-dimensional digital images of the surface; providing a user device on which digital images can be viewed; moving the vehicle in proximity to the structure; generating digital images of a plurality of portions of the surface using the imaging device and, for each of the digital images, generating associated position information relating a position of the imaging device relative to a one of the portions of the surface represented by the digital image; storing the digital images in a data storage device, wherein each of the digital images includes the associated position information; producing a three-dimensional virtual model from the stored digital images; displaying the three-dimensional virtual model on the user device; selecting a location on the displayed three-dimensional model through the user device; using the selected location on the three-dimensional model to identify a corresponding one of the stored position information associated with at least one of the digital images; and displaying the at least one of the digital images associated with the corresponding one of the stored position information on the user device.
2. The method according to claim 1 including moving at least one of the vehicle and the imaging device in a predetermined pattern to generate the digital images for all areas of interest of the surface.
3. The method according to claim 2 including responding to user input through the user device by at least one of adding to, subtracting from, modifying and repeating at least a portion of the predetermined pattern.
4. The method according to claim 1 wherein the user device is a hand-held user device used by an operator of the vehicle or is a system user device.
5. The method according to claim 1 including generating each of the digital images as a frame of a live streaming video.
6. The method according to claim 5 including operating the user device to mark at least one point of interest in the video, the mark including an elapsed time of the video associated with the mark, a reference to the corresponding stored position information and a user comment.
7. The method according to claim 1 including the steps of: providing a pair of lasers on the vehicle; operating the lasers to project parallel light beams onto a feature of interest of the surface; generate a two-dimensional digital image of the portion of the surface including the feature of interest and center points of the light beams impinging on the surface; and determining a dimension of the feature of interest based upon at least one of a known spacing between the center points and a pixel density of the digital image.
8. The method according to claim 1 including generating a report of a damaged area of the surface including at least one of a description of the damaged area, a graphical representation of the structure with the damaged area identified, a description of a type of damage at the damaged area, and at least one of the digital images including the damaged area.
9. The method according to claim 1 including producing the three-dimensional virtual model using photogrammetry techniques to stitch the digital images together.
10. The method according to claim 1 wherein the associated position information includes GPS coordinates of the imaging device.
11. A method for structure inspection, the method comprising the steps of: moving a vehicle in proximity to a structure, the vehicle having an imaging device generating digital images of a predetermined surface of the structure as a live stream video; providing a user device on which the video can be viewed; generating the video including a plurality of portions of the surface using the imaging device and, for each of the digital images, generating and including associated position information relating a position of the imaging device relative to a one of the portions of the surface represented by the digital image; and operating the user device to mark at least one point of interest in the video, the mark including an elapsed time of the video associated with the mark, a reference to the corresponding digital image and a user comment.
12. The method according to claim 11 including producing a three-dimensional virtual model from the digital images; displaying the three-dimensional virtual model on the user device; selecting a location on the displayed three-dimensional model through the user device; using the selected location on the three-dimensional model to identify a corresponding one of the position information associated with at least one of the digital images; and displaying the at least one of the digital images on the user device.
13. The method according to claim 12 including producing the three-dimensional virtual model using photogrammetry techniques to stitch the digital images together.
14. The method according to claim 11 wherein the user device is a system user device and including using the system user device to instruct an operator of the vehicle to move at least one of the vehicle and the imaging device to generate digital images from selected areas of the surface.
15. A non-transitory computer program product comprising at least one computer program means for performing the method according to claim 11 when the computer program means is loaded into at least one processor associated with a structure asset management system in communication with the vehicle and the user device.
16. A computer-implemented method for structure inspection comprising executing on at least one processor the steps of: moving a vehicle in proximity to a structure and moving at least one of the vehicle and an imaging device on the vehicle while generating digital images with the imaging device of a predetermined surface of the structure in a predetermined pattern as a live stream video; for each of the digital images, generating and associating position information relating a position of the imaging device relative to a portion of the surface represented by the digital image; viewing the video on a user device; and operating the user device to mark at least one point of interest in the video, the mark including an elapsed time of the video associated with the mark and a reference to a corresponding one of the digital images and a user comment.
17. The method according to claim 16 including a step of associating a comment with the mark.
18. The method according to claim 16 including a step of including GPS coordinates of the imaging device in the associated position information.
19. The method according to claim 16 including the steps of producing a three-dimensional virtual model from the digital images; displaying the three-dimensional virtual model on the user device; selecting a location on the displayed three-dimensional model through the user device; using the selected location on the three-dimensional model to identify a corresponding one of the position information associated with at least one of the digital images; and displaying the at least one of the digital images on the user device.
20. The method according to claim 19 including producing the three-dimensional virtual model using photogrammetry techniques to stitch the digital images together.
</claims>
</document>
