<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Darve, Eric Felix
Bozchalooi, Iman Soltani
Yang, Ziyi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044717
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Anomaly Augmented Generative Adversarial Network
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for anomaly detection in accordance with embodiments of the invention are illustrated. One embodiment includes a method for training a system for detecting anomalous samples. The method draws data samples from a data distribution of true samples and an anomaly distribution and draws a latent sample from a latent space. The method further includes steps for training a generator to generate data samples based on the drawn data samples and the latent sample, and training a cyclic discriminator to distinguish between true data samples and reconstructed samples. A reconstructed sample is generated by the generator based on an encoding of a data sample. The method identifies a set of one or more true pairs, a set of one or more anomalous pairs, and a set of one or more generated pairs. The method trains a joint discriminator to distinguish true pairs from anomalous and generated pairs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a system for detecting anomalous samples, the method comprising: drawing data samples from a data distribution of true samples and an anomaly distribution; drawing a latent sample from a latent space; training a generator to generate data samples based on the drawn data samples and the latent sample; training an encoder to generate encodings of data samples; training a cyclic discriminator to distinguish between true data samples and reconstructed samples, wherein a reconstructed sample is generated by the generator based on an encoding of a data sample; identifying a set of one or more true pairs, a set of one or more anomalous pairs, and a set of one or more generated pairs, wherein each true pair comprises a true sample and an encoding of the true sample, each anomalous pair comprises an anomalous sample and an encoding of the anomalous sample, and each generate pair comprises a sample generated from a latent sample and the latent sample; and training a joint discriminator to distinguish true pairs from anomalous and generated pairs, wherein the generator and encoder are trained based on the cyclic and joint discriminators.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly distribution is a surrogate anomaly distribution.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the surrogate anomaly distribution is a Gaussian distribution.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein drawing a sample from the anomaly distribution comprises drawing samples from a known set of anomalous data samples.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the latent space is a random noise distribution.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the training the generator comprises: generating a data sample from the drawn latent sample; generating encodings of the true and anomalous data samples; computing a loss by: passing the true data sample and the corresponding generated encoding through the discriminator; passing the anomalous data sample and the corresponding generated encoding through the discriminator; and passing the generated data sample and the drawn latent sample through the discriminator; and backpropagating the computed loss through the generator.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a data sample; generating a reconstructed data sample from the received data sample using the generator; and computing an anomaly score for a sample pair using the discriminator, wherein the sample pair comprises the received data sample and the reconstructed data sample.
8. A method for detecting anomalous samples, the method comprising: receiving a data sample; generating a reconstructed data sample from the received data sample using a generator parameterized to generate data samples according to a true distribution; and computing an anomaly score for a sample pair comprising the received data sample and the reconstructed data sample, wherein computing the anomaly score comprises using a discriminator parameterized to determine a probability that the sample pair comprises a pair of samples from the true distribution.
9. A non-transitory machine readable medium containing processor instructions for training a system to detect anomalous samples, where execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform a process that comprises: drawing data samples from a data distribution of true samples and an anomaly distribution; drawing a latent sample from a latent space; training a generator to generate data samples based on the drawn data samples and the latent sample; training an encoder to generate encodings of data samples; training a cyclic discriminator to distinguish between true data samples and reconstructed samples, wherein a reconstructed sample is generated by the generator based on an encoding of a data sample; identifying a set of one or more true pairs, a set of one or more anomalous pairs, and a set of one or more generated pairs, wherein each true pair comprises a true sample and an encoding of the true sample, each anomalous pair comprises an anomalous sample and an encoding of the anomalous sample, and each generate pair comprises a sample generated from a latent sample and the latent sample; and training a joint discriminator to distinguish true pairs from anomalous and generated pairs, wherein the generator and encoder are trained based on the cyclic and joint discriminators.
10. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the anomaly distribution is a surrogate anomaly distribution.
11. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 10, wherein the surrogate anomaly distribution is a Gaussian distribution.
12. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein drawing a sample from the anomaly distribution comprises drawing samples from a known set of anomalous data samples.
13. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the latent space is a random noise distribution.
14. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein training the generator comprises: generating a data sample from the drawn latent sample; generating encodings of the true and anomalous data samples; computing a loss by: passing the true data sample and the corresponding generated encoding through the discriminator; passing the anomalous data sample and the corresponding generated encoding through the discriminator; and passing the generated data sample and the drawn latent sample through the discriminator; and backpropagating the computed loss through the generator.
15. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, wherein the process further comprises: receiving a data sample; generating a reconstructed data sample from the received data sample using the generator; and computing an anomaly score for a sample pair using the discriminator, wherein the sample pair comprises the received data sample and the reconstructed data sample.
16. A non-transitory machine readable medium containing processor instructions for detecting anomalous samples, where execution of the instructions by a processor causes the processor to perform a process that comprises: receiving a data sample; generating a reconstructed data sample from the received data sample using a generator parameterized to generate data samples according to a true distribution; and computing an anomaly score for a sample pair comprising the received data sample and the reconstructed data sample, wherein computing the anomaly score comprises using a discriminator parameterized to determine a probability that the sample pair comprises a pair of samples from the true distribution.
</claims>
</document>
