<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/08,G02B21/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALBERT EINSTEIN COLLEGE OF MEDICINE OF YESHIVA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONDEELIS, JOHN, S.
ENTENBERG, DAVID
Voiculescu, Sonia E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65440130
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIGH RESOLUTION INTRAVITAL IMAGING AND USES THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus are provided for high resolution intravital imaging and for chronic optical imaging of tissues such as lung.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of high-resolution intravital imaging of a tissue of interest in a subject using a microscope comprising: a) exposing the tissue of interest in the subject, b) attaching a window frame holding a transparent window to the subject so that the tissue of interest is viewable through the window, c) attaching the window frame to a microscope stage with a window fixturing plate that is movable relative to the optical axis of the microscope in at least xand y-directions, and d) acquiring through the window high-magnification, high-resolution overlapping images of the tissue of interest in a mosaic pattern and stitching the images together to produce a low-magnification, high-resolution overview image of the tissue of interest that preserves subcellular resolution, thereby obtaining high-resolution intravital images of a tissue of interest in a subject.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fixturing plate comprises portions defining a circular hole for the window and a circular recess that holds the window frame.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fixturing plate comprises portions defining a slotted recess that holds the window frame.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the fixturing plate is made of metal and/or plastic.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the window frame is attached to the subject using adhesive.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising attaching the window frame to the tissue of interest and applying saline within the window frame before the window is affixed to the window frame to cover the tissue of interest with saline.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein additional stabilization of the tissue of interest is provided by affixing a rigid backing to a side of the tissue of interest opposite to the objective lens of the microscope.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the rigid backing is made of one or more of rubber, plastic and metal.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the tissue is a mammary fat-pad, lymph node or salivary gland.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the window frame is made of metal and/or plastic.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the fixturing plate is placed between the skin of the subject and the outside lip of the window frame to stabilize the tissue of interest, wherein the fixturing plate has a recess for holding the window frame, and wherein the fixturing plate is secured to the microscope stage.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the window frame comprises a plurality of fiducial markers.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein fiducial markers on the window frame serve as navigational reference points and, along with the xy stage origination, form a set of vectors from which a coordinate transformation connecting repeated imaging sessions can be derived.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the window frame comprises a beveled edge that rests against the tissue of interest, a groove into which a skin flap or ribcage fits, and a recess for the window.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein images are obtained using a low-magnification, high-numerical aperture, long-working distance objective lens.
16. The method claim 15, wherein the lens is 25× 1.05 NA.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue is imaged to a depth of at least 100 μm with a step size of 5 μm between each z-slice.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein in step d), the images are obtained in a specific order so that the spatial relationships of the images is maintained and the overall architecture of the tissue is reconstructed.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein cells or other structures in the tissue of interest are labeled using genetically encoded fluorescent proteins or injectable fluorescent dyes.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the tissue of interest is liver, lung, kidney, pancreas, colon, intestines, stomach, esophagus, ovary, uterus, bladder, prostate, bone marrow, brain, mammary gland, lymph node or salivary gland tissue.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the window frame and window are chronically implanted in the subject.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the tissue of interest is lung tissue.
23. A method for chronic intravital imaging of the lung of a subject using a microscope comprising making a circular incision through the skin and adjacent ribs of an anesthetized subject lateral to the sternum and superior to the last floating rib, securing a window frame in the incision so that the adjacent ribs are positioned in a groove of the window frame, wherein the window frame comprises fiducial marks, adhering the window frame to lung tissue by raising the window frame away from the lung tissue, dispensing a quick-setting adhesive on the underside of the window frame, and expanding the lung to make contact with the window frame until the adhesive sets, suturing tissue around the window frame to provide a complete surgical closure, sealing the thoracic cavity by applying an adhesive to a window and adhering it to the expanded lung tissue and the inner recess of the window frame, and following recovery of the subject from anesthesia, stabilizing motion of the window frame for imaging by placing a fixturing plate, comprising portions defining a slotted recess sized to accommodate the window frame, between skin of the subject and an outside lip of the window frame, and placing the subject on the stage of the microscope.
24. (canceled)
25. (canceled)
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the window frame is made of stainless steel that has undergone passivation prior to implantation of the window frame in the subject.
27. (canceled)
28. The method of claim 23, wherein the window frame is secured using a suture that has been threaded between the adjacent ribs before the window frame is positioned in the incision.
29. The method of claim 23, wherein the quick-setting adhesive is cyanoacrylate.
30. (canceled)
31. The method of claim 23, wherein the fiducial marks on the window frame serve as navigational reference points and, along with the xy stage origination, form a set of vectors from which a coordinate transformation connecting repeated imaging sessions can be derived.
32. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is used to visualize tumor cell movement, extravasation, tumor growth, tumor cell progression to metastases, or dynamics of interactions among cells including tumor cells, macrophages and endothelial cells, and subcellular dynamics including cell division, invasive protrusion and signaling secretion.
33. The method of claim 1, wherein the microscope is a multiphoton or confocal microscope.
34. The method of claim 1, wherein images obtained by the method do not require further processing to remove motion artifacts.
35. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a mammal.
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a mouse, rat, gerbil or rabbit.
37. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is a laboratory animal.
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. A window frame for holding a window for intravital imaging of a tissue of interest in a subject, wherein the window frame comprises portions defining a beveled edge that rests against the tissue of interest, a groove into which a skin flap or ribcage fits, and a recess for the window.
41. (canceled)
42. A fixturing plate comprising portions defining a recess that accepts the window frame of claim 40.
43. A kit for intravital imaging comprising one or more of the following: one or more fixturing plates, a window frame, a window, a rigid backing for tissue stabilization, a rib cutting tool, and a window frame holder tool.
44. (canceled)
45. (canceled)
46. (canceled)
47. (canceled)
48. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
