<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/024,A61B5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Getman, Anya L.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Getman, Anya L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607175
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PORTABLE SCANNING DEVICE AND PROCESSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A portable device for diagnosing medical conditions and/or physiological reactions includes internal sensors, cameras, mirrors, lasers, electronics, speakers and/or other components. Sensors may be mounted on one or more internal gimbals for stability. The device transmits data it obtains to be processed. Deep learning and other algorithms and tools may be employed to make a diagnosis, detect physiological reactions, or make other observations from data received from the device, as desired. Information from the analysis may be communicated to the device for display. In one embodiment, the device is in the shape of a common item such as a coffee cup. In another embodiment, the device is in the form of a musical instrument and is configured to sense a subject's reaction to music, beats, and/or other stimuli.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A detection system including a portable device configured for detecting medical conditions or physiological reactions in an animal body, comprising: a housing shaped to disguise the detection system, wherein the housing has an interior that is at least partly bounded by an exterior wall portion, and wherein the exterior wall portion comprises a material that is opaque or reflective when viewed from the exterior but is translucent or transparent when viewed from the interior of the device toward the exterior wall portion; multiple stimulus emitters within the portable device, wherein the multiple stimulus emitters include first and second stimulus emitters, wherein the first stimulus emitter is operable to emit a first type of stimulus toward the animal body, wherein the second stimulus emitter is operable to emit a second type of stimulus toward the animal body, and wherein the first and second stimulus are of different types; multiple sensors within the portable device for obtaining body data associated with a medical condition or physiological reaction in the animal body, wherein the multiple sensors include first and second sensors, wherein the first sensor is operable to obtain a first type of body data, wherein the second sensor is operable to obtain a second type of body data, and wherein the first and second types of body data are different, and wherein the first sensor or the second sensor comprises a camera; and a communication nexus that includes one or more communication nodes within the portable device to operatively connect the sensors, independently or collectively, to a processing tool for processing the body data to identify the presence of one or more medical conditions or one or more physiological reactions in the animal body, wherein the processing tool comprises a trainable artificial intelligence system (AI system).
2. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device is configured to be held by a hand.
3. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the housing is shaped to resemble a piece of drinkware or a musical instrument.
4. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device includes multiple stimulus emitters within the portable device, wherein the multiple stimulus emitters include first and second stimulus emitters, wherein the first stimulus emitter is operable to emit a first type of stimulus toward the animal body, wherein the second stimulus emitter is operable to emit a second type of stimulus toward the animal body, and wherein the first and second stimulus are of different types.
5. The detection system of claim 4, wherein one of the stimulus emitters emits one or more of UV light radiation, visible light radiation, infrared light radiation, microwave radiation, radio sound radiation, and ultrasonic radiation, or wherein one of the stimulus emitters is a laser.
6. The detection system of claim 1, wherein one of the sensors comprises an infrared sensor, a sound sensor, or an ultrasound sensor.
7. The detection system of claim 1, wherein at least one sensor within the portable device is mounted on a gimbal to stabilize the sensor.
8. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device includes a first camera mounted on a gimbal and a second camera mounted so as to be rotatable.
9. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device includes an array of cameras and/or sensors arranged in a spiral configuration.
10. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device includes a motor to selectively move one or more of the sensors within the housing.
11. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the device includes active sensors employed in sender/receiver pairs and the sensors are mounted on a pole configured to be rotated by a drive motor.
12. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the body data comprises an image, an infrared image, a sound image, an ultrasonic sound image, or a visual image.
13. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the medical condition or the physiological reaction is associated with an internal organ, an internal system, a blood vessel, or a nerve, heart rate, blood pressure, pupil diameter, an emotional condition, a facial expression, tearing up, swaying, or change in position.
14. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the first type of stimulus is operable to treat the medical condition or change the physiological reaction.
15. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the medical condition comprises one or more of Alzheimer's disease, anemia, a tumor, a brain tumor, a fibroid, diabetic retinopathy, glaucoma, a retinal vascular occlusion, fluid in the lungs, a parasitic worm, an enlarged heart, a heart shape abnormality, pregnancy, a broken bone, bone healing progress, an ovarian cyst, or a change in blood vessel diameter.
16. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device includes a gyro and an accelerometer to determine one or more orientation parameters of the portable device.
17. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the portable device is configured to paired with a second portable device.
18. The detection system of claim 1, wherein the trainable artificial intelligence system utilizes a deep learning neural network, an image and anomaly database, and a medical and image history record of the animal body.
19. A detection system including a portable device configured for detecting physiological or emotional reactions of a subject, comprising: a housing shaped as a musical instrument; multiple sensors within the portable device for obtaining body data associated with a physiological reaction or an emotional reaction in the subject, wherein the multiple sensors include first and second sensors, wherein the first sensor is operable to obtain a first type of body data, wherein the second sensor is operable to obtain a second type of body data, and wherein the first and second types of body data are different, and wherein the first sensor or the second sensor comprises a camera; an audio speaker with a volume control; a processing tool including a trainable artificial intelligence system that analyses the body data about the subject to identify a physiological or emotional response in the subject in reaction to sounds that the portable device plays; and a display affiliated with the device to display data from the artificial intelligence system.
20. A method for identifying a medical condition or physiological reaction in an animal body, comprising: emitting multiple forms of radiation toward an animal body; obtaining, in response to the multiple forms of radiation, body data representative of the animal body; providing the body data to a processing tool to identify the presence of one or more medical conditions or physiological reactions of the animal body, wherein the processing tool comprises a trainable AI system; and providing information concerning the medical condition or physiological reaction to a user interface.
</claims>
</document>
