<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A62C3/02,A62C37/40,A62C99/00,G08B17/06,G08B17/10,G08B25/00,G08B25/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAMROTH, TIMOTHY C.
HALL, JR., ROBERT C.
TRIVELPIECE, CRAIG, E
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING BUILDING CONDITIONS BASED ON WIRELESS SIGNAL DEGRADATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting an event in or around a building. The method includes recording a baseline signal characteristic that characterizes a wireless signal transmitted between devices in or around the building during a baseline time period and recording a second signal characteristic that characterizes the wireless signal during a second time period after the baseline time period. An event in or around the building is detected in response to a determination that the second signal characteristic is abnormal relative to the baseline signal characteristic, the event degrading the wireless signal during the second time period. An alarm is triggered in response to detecting the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting an event in or around a building, the method comprising: recording a baseline signal characteristic that characterizes a wireless signal transmitted between devices in or around the building during a baseline time period; recording a second signal characteristic that characterizes the wireless signal during a second time period after the baseline time period; detecting an event in or around the building in response to a determination that the second signal characteristic is abnormal relative to the baseline signal characteristic; and triggering an alarm in response to detecting the event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the wireless signal is within a frequency range compliant with IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi communications specifications or IEEE 802.15.4-based specifications and the base line signal characteristic comprises Channel State Information (CSI).
3. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the event comprises: identifying a building location located between a first device from which the wireless signal is transmitted and a second device at which the wireless signal is received; determining that the event is occurring within the building location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the event comprises at least one of a fire within the building or an increased level of water vapor within the building.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second signal characteristic is determined to be abnormal relative to the baseline signal characteristic if the second signal characteristic comprises at least one of a degradation in signal strength, a degradation in link quality, or a degradation in bit rate relative to the baseline signal characteristic.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: observing the baseline signal characteristic and the second signal characteristic at a plurality of locations throughout the building; and transmitting the baseline signal characteristic and the second signal characteristic observed at the plurality of locations to a controller.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the controller comprises at least one of a building management system (BMS) controller or a fire system controller.
8. A system for detecting an event within a building, the building comprising a wireless network comprising a plurality of wireless devices distributed throughout the building, the wireless network having a baseline signal characteristic associated with wireless signals of the wireless network, the system comprising: an event detector configured to: receive a current signal characteristic associated with wireless signals of the wireless network; detect an event in or around the building in response to a determination that the second signal characteristic is abnormal relative to the baseline signal characteristic; and trigger an alarm in response to detecting the event.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the wireless signals are a frequency range compliant with IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi communications specifications or IEEE 802.15.4-based specifications and the baseline signal characteristic comprises a signal to noise ratio and a channel state information.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the event detector is further configured to: identify a building location located between a first device from which the wireless signal is transmitted and a second device at which the wireless signal is received; determine that the event is occurring within the building location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the event comprises at least one of a fire within the building or an increased level of water vapor within the building.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the current signal characteristic is determined to be abnormal relative to the baseline signal characteristic if the current signal characteristic comprises at least one of a degradation in signal strength, a degradation in link quality, or a degradation in bit rate relative to the baseline signal characteristic.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of wireless devices are configured to: observe the baseline signal characteristic and the current signal characteristic at a plurality of locations throughout the building; and transmit the baseline signal characteristic and the current signal characteristic observed at the plurality of locations to the controller.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the event detector comprises or is part of at least one of a building management system (BMS) controller or a fire system controller.
15. A method for detecting an event in or around a building, the method comprising: providing an artificial intelligence engine trained using baseline signal characteristics associated a wireless communication in or around the building; receiving a current signal characteristic associated with the wireless communication; and detecting an event in or around the building in response to the artificial intelligence engine.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the wireless signal is within a frequency range compliant with IEEE 802.11 Wi-Fi communications specifications or IEEE 802.15.4-based specifications, and the baseline signal characteristic and the current signal characteristic comprise signal to noise ratio, channel state information, and packet loss.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein detecting the event comprises: identifying a building location located between a first device from which the wireless communication is transmitted and a second device at which the wireless communication is received; determining that the event is occurring within the building location.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the event comprises at least one of a fire within the building or an increased level of water vapor within the building.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the baseline signal characteristic comprises a degradation in signal strength, a degradation in link quality, a degradation in channel state, or a degradation in bit rate relative to the baseline signal characteristic.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising: observing the baseline signal characteristic and the current signal characteristic at a plurality of locations throughout the building; and transmitting the baseline signal characteristic and the current signal characteristic observed at the plurality of locations to a controller.
</claims>
</document>
