<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J13/08,G01S13/02,H01L21/677
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANG, Hyeonin
JUNG, Han Wook
KIM, Da Sol
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043953
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT DETECTION AND CONTROL SYSTEM WITHIN CHAMBER AND SUBSTRATE PROCESSING APPARATUS INCLUDING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates a robot detection and control system within a chamber capable of detecting a position of the robot within the chamber by using a plurality of UWB radars. To this end, the present invention provides a robot detection and control system within a chamber configured to include a UWB radar provided in the chamber; a position detection unit which detects a position of a robot moving in the chamber using data by the UWB radar; and a robot control unit which compares the position of the robot by the position detection unit with a position of an obstacle to control the movement of the robot. Therefore, according to the present invention, since the position of the robot within the chamber may be determined in real time, it is possible to determine whether the movement path of the robot is appropriate and prevent an emergency accident in advance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robot detection and control system within a chamber comprising: a UWB radar provided in the chamber; a position detection unit which detects a position of a robot moving in the chamber using data by the UWB radar; and a robot control unit which compares the position of the robot by the position detection unit with a position of an obstacle to control the movement of the robot.
2. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 1, wherein the robot control unit calculates a measurement distance between a coordinate of the robot and a coordinate of the obstacle and compares the measurement distance with a safety distance.
3. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 2, wherein a separate safety distance for each obstacle is set and stored in a storage unit, and the robot control unit extracts a shortest distance obstacle from the coordinate of the robot by the position detection unit to determine whether the measurement distance between the coordinate of the robot and a coordinate of the shortest distance obstacle is greater than or equal to the detected safety distance.
4. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 1, wherein three UWB radars are provided, and the position detection unit forms a virtual circle having a distance from the robot detected by each UWB radar as a radius and sets the maximum intersection of the circle as the coordinate of the robot.
5. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 4, wherein the robot is provided with a detection dielectric having a different dielectric constant from other obstacles.
6. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 2, wherein the robot control unit calculates a measurement distance between the coordinate of the obstacle and the coordinate of the robot inside the chamber in the same repeated operation and compares the measurement distance with the measurement distance of the previous operation to compensate the movement of the robot.
7. The robot detection and control system within the chamber of claim 1, wherein the robot control unit converts an obstacle and a non-obstacle to each other by using the storage unit in which the obstacle map is stored according to an operation content.
8. A substrate processing apparatus comprising: a chamber; a robot introduced into the chamber; a ultra wide band (UWB) radar provided in the chamber; a position detection unit which detects a position of the robot moving in the chamber using data measured by the UWB radar; and a storage unit which stores a coordinate of the robot detected by the position detection unit.
9. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 8, further comprising: a robot control unit controlling the movement of the robot, wherein the storage unit further stores a coordinate of the obstacle in the chamber.
10. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the robot control unit calculates a measurement distance between the coordinate of the robot and the coordinate of the obstacle and compares the measurement distance with a safety distance.
11. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein the storage unit further stores the safety distance for the obstacle, and the robot control unit extracts a shortest distance obstacle from the coordinate of the robot to determine whether the measurement distance between the coordinate of the robot and a coordinate of the shortest distance obstacle is greater than or equal to the safety distance.
12. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 10, wherein three UWB radars are provided, and the position detection unit forms a virtual circle having a distance from the robot detected by each UWB radar as a radius and sets the maximum intersection of the virtual circle as the coordinate of the robot.
13. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the robot includes a detection dielectric having a different dielectric constant from the obstacle in the chamber.
14. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the robot control unit calculates a measurement distance between the coordinate of the obstacle and the coordinate of the robot inside the chamber in the same repeated operation and compares the measurement distance with the measurement distance of the previous operation to compensate the movement of the robot.
15. The substrate processing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the robot control unit converts an obstacle and a non-obstacle to each other by using the storage unit in which an obstacle map is stored according to an operation content.
16. A robot detection and control method within a chamber comprising: measuring, by a position detection unit, a position of a robot moving in a chamber by using a UWB radar provided in the chamber; and comparing, by a robot control unit, the position of the robot with a position of an obstacle to control the movement of the robot.
17. The robot detection and control method within the chamber of claim 16, wherein the measuring of the position of the robot includes measuring a distance from the robot by each UWB radar, wherein three UWB radars are disposed; forming, by the position detection unit, a virtual circle having the distance from the detected by each UWB radar as a radius; and setting, by the position detection unit, the maximum intersection with each circle as a coordinate of the robot.
18. The robot detection and control method within the chamber of claim 16, wherein the robot control unit receives the coordinate of the robot from the position detection unit in real time and stores the received coordinate of the robot in the storage unit, and compares the real-time coordinate of the robot with a set coordinate stored in the storage unit and generates an alarm when the real-time coordinate of the robot is out of a critical range.
</claims>
</document>
