<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/40,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEALTHY.IO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADIRI, YONATAN
GUR, EITAN
ZOHAR, RON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121798
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTEGRATING RESULTS OF IMAGE-BASED ANALYSIS WITH ELECTRONIC MEDICAL RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods automatically populate an electronic medical record of a patient with the results of image analysis. A token is generated for a specific patient in need of a medical test. The token is transmitted to a mobile communications device associated with the specific patient. Once a token-based communications session is initiated between the mobile communications device and a remote server, image-related information is transmitted to the remote server from the mobile communications device to perform an analysis of the image-related data. Upon verification that the transmitted image-related information is associated with the specific patient, an electronic medical record of the specific patient is updated to reflect a test result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for securely updating personal electronic medical records with image information captured by a mobile communications device, the system comprising: at least one processor configured to: generate a token for a specific patient in need of a medical test; transmit the token to a mobile communications device of the specific patient; enable a token-based communications session to take place between the mobile communications device of the specific patient and at least one remote server, wherein the communications session includes transmission from the mobile communications device of image-related information obtained via an image sensor associated with the mobile communications device, and wherein the image-related information reflects a resulting color of a chemical reaction between a biological substance and a reagent; verify, based on the token, that the image-related information is associated with the specific patient; and update a personal electronic medical record of the specific patient with a test result reflective of the verified image-related information.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the token is indicative of an authorization for an image-based medical test for the specific patient, and the at least one processor that generates the token is part of the at least one remote server.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one remote server is associated with at least one of a healthcare provider and an agent of the healthcare provider.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the token-based communication session includes sending a link from a healthcare provider to the mobile communications device associated with the specific patient after obtaining an indication that the specific patient needs the medical test.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein enabling a token-based communication session includes sending an identifying detail of a patient to the remote server after obtaining an indication that the specific patient needs the medical test.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the token-based communications session includes causing the mobile communications device of the specific patient to provide guidance to the specific patient on how to successfully complete the medical test.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the guidance includes instructions to do at least two of: opening a medical kit, expanding a collapsed measuring cup, dipping a dipstick, blotting the dipstick, placing the dipstick on a colorized test surface; capturing an image of the dipstick on the colorized test surface, and recapturing the image of the dipstick on the colorized test surface.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the guidance includes instructions to expose the reagent to a biological fluid and to capture an image of the exposed reagent within a predefined time window.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that the specific patient needs the medical test; and in response to the determination that the specific patient needs the medical test, trigger sending of a home testing kit to the specific patient.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to send reminders to the specific patient when the transmission of image-related information is not received within a selected time period after the home testing kit was sent.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause a generation of a medical prescription for treating the specific patient based on the test result reflective of the verified image-related information.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitted image-related information is an image of at least one test reagent adjacent a colorized test surface.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitted image-related information is data derived from image analysis of at least one test reagent adjacent a colorized test surface.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitted image-related information reflects resulting colors of multiple chemical reactions between a biological fluid and a plurality of test reagents for measuring differing urinary properties.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitted image-related information reflects resulting colors of multiple chemical reactions between a biological fluid and a plurality of test reagents for measuring differing saliva properties.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitted image-related information reflects resulting colors of multiple chemical reactions between a biological secretion and a plurality of test reagents for measuring differing stool properties.
17. A system for securely updating personal electronic medical records with image information captured by a mobile communications device, the system comprising: at least one processor configured to: generate a token for a specific patient in need of a medical test; transmit the token to a mobile communications device of the specific patient; enable a token-based communications session to take place between the mobile communications device of the specific patient and at least one remote server, wherein the communications session includes transmission from the mobile communications device of image-related information obtained via an image sensor associated with the mobile communications device, and wherein the image-related information reflects characteristics of different segments of at least one skin feature; verify, based on the token, that the image-related information is associated with the specific patient; and update a personal electronic medical record of the specific patient with a test result reflective of the verified image-related information.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the transmitted image-related information is an image of the at least one skin feature adjacent to a colorized test surface.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the transmitted image-related information is data derived from image analysis of an image of the at least one skin feature being positioned adjacent a colorized test surface.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one skin feature includes at least part of a wound and the transmitted image-related information is indicative of healing progress of the wound.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one skin feature includes a skin mark and the transmitted image-related information is indicative of a change in a visual characteristic of the skin mark.
22. A non-transitory computer readable medium for enabling automatic update of an electronic medical record via a patient's mobile communications device, the computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform a method, the method comprising: causing an electronic transmission of a token to the mobile communication device of the patient for use by a medical image capture application on the mobile communications device; enabling via the medical image capture application, the patient to capture a medical image using a camera of the mobile communications device; enabling via the medical image capture application, processing of the image to generate medical data and to transmit the medical data along with the token, for verifying an identity of the patient; receiving the medical data and the token; verifying an identity of the patient using the token; and following identity verification, automatically populating an electronic medical record of the patient with the medical data.
</claims>
</document>
