<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COSTA, MARIA JIMENA
KAMEN, ALI
JATTKE, KIRSTIN
HEISSNER, KLAUS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65228336
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DATA PROCESSING UNIT FOR SELECTING A RISK ASSESSMENT COMPUTER PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method is for displaying a graphical user interface containing a selection element to select one risk assessment computer program out of a patient-related subset of a plurality of risk assessment computer programs of a patient on a display unit for an user. In an embodiment, the method includes retrieving a set of disease-related workflows; retrieving a plurality of risk assessment computer programs; selecting a disease-related dataset from the patient-related data record; determining at least one of the disease-related workflow stages from the set of disease-related workflows based on the selected disease-related dataset; determining a patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs based on the determined at least one of the disease-related workflow stage; and displaying the graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for displaying a graphical user interface containing a selection element to select one risk assessment computer program out of a patient-related subset of a plurality of risk assessment computer programs of a patient on a display unit for an user, the method comprising: retrieving a set of disease-related workflows, each disease-related workflow of the set of disease-related workflows including at least two disease-related stages and being stored within a computer network; retrieving a plurality of risk assessment computer programs, each risk assessment computer program, of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs, predicting a probability of clinical outcome and being stored within the computer network; retrieving a patient-related data record of the patient from the computer network; selecting a disease-related dataset from the patient-related data record; determining at least one of the disease-related workflow stages from the set of disease-related workflows based on a first disease-related mapping function, the disease-related dataset selected being an input of the first disease-related mapping function; determining a patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs based on a second disease-related mapping function, the at least one of the disease-related workflow stage determined being an input of the second disease-related mapping function; and displaying the graphical user interface containing a selection element to select the one risk assessment computer program, out of the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs of the patient, on the display unit for the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a calculable subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs is determined, wherein the calculable subset determined is used as input for determining the patient-related subset and wherein the determining of the calculable subset comprises: providing a set of input parameter categories, wherein the plurality of risk assessment computer programs depends on the set of input parameter categories provided, each risk assessment computer program predicting a probability of clinical outcome as a function of values in the input parameter categories, selecting a patient-related dataset from the patient-related data record, wherein the patient-related dataset selected includes at least one input parameter category, and comparing the patient-related dataset selected with the set of input parameter categories of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs provided, whereby the calculable subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs is determined.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs is differentiated by the calculable subset determined and wherein the displaying the graphical user interface comprises displaying the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs differentiated, according to respective calculability on the display unit for the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the displaying of the graphical user interface includes identifying input parameter categories of the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs, missing for the calculability, and displaying the identified missing input parameter categories on the display unit for the user.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs is merged with the calculable subset determined, wherein a calculable patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs is determined, and wherein the graphical user interface is configured to contain the selection element to select the one risk assessment computer program out of the calculable patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs of the patient on the display unit for the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first disease-related mapping function is determined by training a machine learning system based on a first set of training data, and the second disease-related mapping function is determined by training the machine learning system based on a second set of training data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the machine learning system, the first disease-related mapping function and the second disease-related mapping function is based on an artificial neural network.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the artificial neural network includes a convolutional neural network.
9. A data processing unit, comprising: a processor, a network interface, and a display unit, wherein the data processing is configured to perform retrieving a set of disease-related workflows, each disease-related workflow of the set of disease-related workflows including at least two disease-related stages and being stored within a computer network, retrieving a plurality of risk assessment computer programs, each risk assessment computer program, of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs, predicting a probability of clinical outcome and being stored within the computer network, retrieving a patient-related data record of the patient from the computer network, selecting a disease-related dataset from the patient-related data record, determining at least one of the disease-related workflow stages from the set of disease-related workflows based on a first disease-related mapping function, the disease-related dataset selected being an input of the first disease-related mapping function, determining a patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs based on a second disease-related mapping function, the at least one of the disease-related workflow stage determined being an input of the second disease-related mapping function, and displaying a graphical user interface containing a selection element to select the one risk assessment computer program, out of the patient-related subset of the plurality of risk assessment computer programs of the patient, on the display unit for a user.
10. A non-transitory computer program product storing a computer program, the computer program being loadable into a memory unit of a data processing system and including program code sections to enable the data processing system to execute the method of claim 1 when the computer program is executed in the data processing system.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing program code sections of a computer program, the program code sections being at least one of loadable into and executable in a data processing system to enable the data processing system to execute the method of claim 1 when the program code sections are executed in the data processing system.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein at least one of the first disease-related mapping function is determined by training a machine learning system based on a first set of training data, and the second disease-related mapping function is determined by training the machine learning system based on a second set of training data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the machine learning system, the first disease-related mapping function and the second disease-related mapping function is based on an artificial neural network.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the artificial neural network includes a convolutional neural network.
15. The method of claim 3, wherein at least one of the first disease-related mapping function is determined by training a machine learning system based on a first set of training data, and the second disease-related mapping function is determined by training the machine learning system based on a second set of training data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the machine learning system, the first disease-related mapping function and the second disease-related mapping function is based on an artificial neural network.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the artificial neural network includes a convolutional neural network.
18. A non-transitory computer program product storing a computer program, the computer program being loadable into a memory unit of a data processing system and including program code sections to enable the data processing system to execute the method of claim 2 when the computer program is executed in the data processing system.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing program code sections of a computer program, the program code sections being at least one of loadable into and executable in a data processing system to enable the data processing system to execute the method of claim 2 when the program code sections are executed in the data processing system.
</claims>
</document>
