<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/958,G06N20/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, ERIC
HUANG, SHEN
XIE, WANYAN
KUANG, YANJIN
MATALON, ANNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123917
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY LINKING PAGES IN A WEBSITE
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for optimizing links to web pages for electronic content are provided. Multiple candidate entities that are associated with a particular entity are identified. Identifying the candidate entities includes at least the steps of identifying a set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated, ranking the set of entities based on one or more criteria, and selecting a subset of entities from the set of entities. Based on the selection, a plurality of links is included in a particular web page for the particular entity. Each link is configured to link to a web page of a different entity of the subset of entities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying a plurality of entities that is associated with a particular entity; wherein identifying the plurality of entities comprises: identifying a set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated; ranking the set of entities based on one or more criteria; and selecting the plurality of entities from the set of entities; and based on selecting the plurality of entities, including, in a particular web page for the particular entity, a plurality of links, each of which links to a web page of a different entity of the plurality of entities; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria comprises professional similarity, professional seniority, familiarity attributes, or common connection attributes.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein ranking the set of entities based on the one or more criteria comprises: for each entity in the set of entities: receiving values for the one or more criteria; comparing the values associated with said each entity with respective values associated with the particular entity; determining a similarity value based on the comparing; ranking said each entity relative to other entities in the set of entities based on the similarity value.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated further comprises: identifying one or more organizations associated with the set of entities; wherein the one or more organizations share at least one characteristic with the particular organization; for each entity in the set of entities: calculating a period of employment at an organization of the one or more organizations; determining whether the period of employment at the organization of the one or more organizations overlaps with a period of employment of the particular entity at the particular organization.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving feedback data indicating one or more user interactions associated with the plurality of links; generating training data based on the feedback data, wherein each training instance in the training data comprise a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features; and using one or more machine learning techniques to train a prediction model based on the training data, wherein the prediction model includes a set of weights for the plurality of features and is used to predict whether a user will select a particular link.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein selecting the plurality of entities is based on a plurality of scores generated by the prediction model for the plurality of entities.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of features include a click-through rate of a candidate link or a number of web page views associated with a candidate entity.
8. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, perform a method comprising: identifying a plurality of entities that is associated with a particular entity; wherein identifying the plurality of entities comprises: identifying a set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated; ranking the set of entities based on one or more criteria; and selecting the plurality of entities from the set of entities; and based on selecting the plurality of entities, including, in a particular web page for the particular entity, a plurality of links, each of which links to a web page of a different entity of the plurality of entities; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
9. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein the one or more criteria comprises professional similarity, professional seniority, familiarity attributes, or common connection attributes.
10. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein ranking the set of entities based on the one or more criteria comprises: for each entity in the set of entities: receiving values for the one or more criteria; comparing the values associated with said each entity with respective values associated with the particular entity; determining a similarity value based on the comparing; ranking said each entity relative to other entities in the set of entities based on the similarity value.
11. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein identifying the set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated further comprises: identifying one or more organizations associated with the set of entities; wherein the one or more organizations share at least one characteristic with the particular organization; for each entity in the set of entities: calculating a period of employment at an organization of the one or more organizations; determining whether the period of employment at the organization of the one or more organizations overlaps with a period of employment of the particular entity at the particular organization.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 8, when executed, the method further comprising: receiving feedback data indicating one or more user interactions associated with the plurality of links; generating training data based on the feedback data, wherein each training instance in the training data comprise a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features; and using one or more machine learning techniques to train a prediction model based on the training data, wherein the prediction model includes a set of weights for the plurality of features and is used to predict whether a user will select a particular link.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein selecting the plurality of entities is based on a plurality of scores generated by the prediction model for the plurality of entities.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein the plurality of features includes a click-through rate of a candidate link or a number of web page views associated with a candidate entity.
15. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising: identifying a plurality of entities that is associated with a particular entity; wherein identifying the plurality of entities comprises: identifying a set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated; ranking the set of entities based on one or more criteria; and selecting the plurality of entities from the set of entities; and based on selecting the plurality of entities, including, in a particular web page for the particular entity, a plurality of links, each of which links to a web page of a different entity of the plurality of entities; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more criteria comprises professional similarity, professional seniority, familiarity attributes, or common connection attributes.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein ranking the set of entities based on the one or more criteria comprises: for each entity in the set of entities: receiving values for the one or more criteria; comparing the values associated with said each entity with respective values associated with the particular entity; determining a similarity value based on the comparing; ranking said each entity relative to other entities in the set of entities based on the similarity value.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein identifying the set of entities that is associated with a particular organization with which the particular entity is associated further comprises: identifying one or more organizations associated with the set of entities; wherein the one or more organizations share at least one characteristic with the particular organization; for each entity in the set of entities: calculating a period of employment at an organization of the one or more organizations; determining whether the period of employment at the organization of the one or more organizations overlaps with a period of employment of the particular entity at the particular organization.
19. The system of claim 15, when executed, the method further comprising: receiving feedback data indicating one or more user interactions associated with the plurality of links; generating training data based on the feedback data, wherein each training instance in the training data comprise a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features; and using one or more machine learning techniques to train a prediction model based on the training data, wherein the prediction model includes a set of weights for the plurality of features and is used to predict whether a user will select a particular link.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein selecting the plurality of entities is based on a plurality of scores generated by the prediction model for the plurality of entities.
</claims>
</document>
