<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22,G10L15/30,G10L25/78,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRUENSTEIN, ALEXANDER H.
FOERSTER, JAKOB NICOLAUS
CASADO, DIEGO MELENDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59579964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HOTWORD DETECTION ON MULTIPLE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for hotword detection on multiple devices are disclosed. In one aspect, a method includes the actions of receiving audio data that corresponds to an utterance. The actions further include determining that the utterance likely includes a particular, predefined hotword. The actions further include transmitting (i) data indicating that the computing device likely received the particular, predefined hotword, (ii) data identifying the computing device, and (iii) data identifying a group of nearby computing devices that includes the computing device. The actions further include receiving an instruction to commence speech recognition processing on the audio data. The actions further include in response to receiving the instruction to commence speech recognition processing on the audio data, processing at least a portion of the audio data using an automated speech recognizer on the computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a server, data indicating that two or more first devices received a particular, predefined hotword, and context data associated with each of the two or more first devices, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices includes a respective transcription of an utterance of audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword and information indicating a group identifier of each of the two or more first devices; and based on a match of at least a portion of each respective transcription of the utterance and the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices, transmitting, by the server, an instruction to at least one of the two or more first devices to commence processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is speech recognition processing.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is different, transmitting, by the server and based on the match, the instruction to one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is the same, transmitting, by the server and based on the match, the instruction to the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates one or more capabilities of each of the two or more first devices, wherein the transmitting the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is based on the one or more capabilities of each of the two or more first devices.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates an elapsed time since a previous use of each of the two or more first devices, wherein the transmitting the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is based on the elapsed time since the previous use of each of the two or more first devices.
8. The method of claim 3, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates a previous action performed by of each of the two or more first devices, wherein the transmitting the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is based on the previous action performed by each of the two or more first devices.
9. The method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, by the server and from each of the two or more first devices, data indicating a loudness of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword, wherein the transmitting the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is based on the loudness of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
10. A server, comprising: processing circuitry configured to receive data indicating that two or more first devices received a particular, predefined hotword, and context data associated with each of the two or more first devices, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices includes a respective transcription of an utterance of audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword and information indicating a group identifier of each of the two or more first devices, and based on a match of at least a portion of each respective transcription of the utterance and the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices, transmit an instruction to at least one of the two or more first devices to commence processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
11. The server of claim 10, wherein the processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is speech recognition processing.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is different, transmit, based on the match, the instruction to one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
13. The server of claim 11, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is the same, transmit, based on the match, the instruction to the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
14. The server of claim 11, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates one or more capabilities of each of the two or more first devices, and the processing circuitry is further configured to transmit the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword based on the one or more capabilities of each of the two or more first devices.
15. The server of claim 11, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates an elapsed time since a previous use of each of the two or more first devices and the processing circuitry is further configured to transmit the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword based on the elapsed time since the previous use of each of the two or more first devices.
16. The server of claim 11, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices indicates a previous action performed by of each of the two or more first devices, and the processing circuitry is further configured to transmit the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword based on the previous action performed by each of the two or more first devices.
17. The server of claim 11, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to receive, from each of the two or more first devices, data indicating a loudness of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword, and transmit the instruction to the at least one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword based on the loudness of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by a server, cause the server to perform a method, comprising: receiving data indicating that two or more first devices received a particular, predefined hotword, and context data associated with each of the two or more first devices, wherein the context data associated with each of the two or more first devices includes a respective transcription of an utterance of audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword and information indicating a group identifier of each of the two or more first devices; and based on a match of at least a portion of each respective transcription of the utterance and the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices, transmitting an instruction to at least one of the two or more first devices to commence processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the processing of the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword is speech recognition processing.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is different, transmitting, based on the match, the instruction to one of the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising when the group identifier of each of the two or more first devices is the same, transmit, based on the match, the instruction to the two or more first devices to commence the speech recognition processing on the audio data associated with the particular, predefined hotword.
</claims>
</document>
