<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B7/16,G01L1/22,G01L7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRANCIS, JOHN
MEREDITH, SHELDON KENT
PUZYREV, YEVGENIY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72750021
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSOR BASED ON SMART RESPONSE OF TWO-DIMENSIONAL NANOMATERIAL AND ASSOCIATED METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method comprising: applying to a substrate a first two-dimensional layer; and applying to the first two-dimensional layer a second two-dimensional layer, wherein the first two-dimensional layer and the second two-dimensional layer form a bi-layer element, wherein the bi-layer element has an axis, wherein there is an initial electrical resistance across the bi-layer element along the axis, and wherein a first change to the substrate results in a second change to the bi-layer element such that the initial electrical resistance is replaced by a lower electrical resistance. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: applying to a substrate a first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer; applying to the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer a second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer, wherein the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer and the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer form a bi-layer element, wherein the bi-layer element has an axis, wherein there is an initial electrical resistance across the bi-layer element along the axis, and wherein a first change to the substrate results in a second change to the bi-layer element such that the initial electrical resistance is replaced by a lower electrical resistance; and detecting, by a processing system including a processor, presence of the lower electrical resistance across the bi-layer element.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer is applied to the substrate by a first film deposition.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer is applied to the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer by a second film deposition.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the applying the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer comprises a first anion-poor deposition of the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer on the substrate, resulting in a deficit of Sulfur (S) atoms in the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer to produce first atomic vacancies; and the applying the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer comprises a second anion-poor deposition of the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer on the first two-dimensional nanomaterial layer, resulting in a deficit of Selenium (Se) atoms in the second two-dimensional nanomaterial layer to produce second atomic vacancies.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer is Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2); and the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer is Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2).
6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first change to the substrate comprises a mechanical change, and wherein the substrate comprises part of a cell phone tower.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the mechanical change comprises a crack.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first change to the substrate is caused by mechanical stress, a temperature change, a humidity change, a change in incident light, or any combinations thereof.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the second change to the bi-layer element comprises migration of first atoms from the first two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer to produce first atomic vacancies, migration of second atoms from the second two-dimensional, nanomaterial layer to produce second additional atomic vacancies, or any combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the substrate comprises all or a portion of a cell phone tower, all or a portion of an antenna mount, or any combinations thereof.
12. A sensor comprising: a first two-dimensional coating applied to a substrate; and a second two-dimensional coating applied to the first two-dimensional coating, wherein there is a first electrical resistance across the sensor from a first side of the sensor to a second side of the sensor, wherein a change to the substrate results in a creation of atomic vacancies at an interface between the first two-dimensional coating and the second two-dimensional coating, and wherein the creation of the atomic vacancies changes the first electrical resistance across the sensor to a lower electrical resistance.
13. The sensor of claim 12, further comprising circuitry configured to detect a presence of the lower electrical resistance.
14. The sensor of claim 13, wherein the circuitry comprises a first electrical contact on the first side of the sensor, a second electrical contact on the second side of the sensor, and a measurement device in operative communication with the first electrical contact and the second electrical contact, and wherein the measurement device is configured to measure electrical resistance.
15. The sensor of claim 12, wherein the first two-dimensional coating is applied to the substrate by a first film deposition and wherein the second two-dimensional coating is applied to the first two-dimensional coating by a second film deposition.
16. The sensor of claim 15, wherein: the first two-dimensional coating is Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2); and the second two-dimensional coating is Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2).
17. A device comprising: a first two-dimensional layer applied to a substrate; a second two-dimensional layer applied to the first two-dimensional layer, wherein the first two-dimensional layer and the second two-dimensional layer form a bi-layer element, wherein there is a starting electrical resistance across the bi-layer element, wherein a physical change to the bi-layer element results in a creation of atomic vacancies at an interface between the first two-dimensional layer and the second two-dimensional layer, and wherein the creation of the atomic vacancies reduces the starting electrical resistance to a lower value; a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting that the starting electrical resistance has been reduced.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the detecting that the starting electrical resistance has been reduced comprises detecting that the starting electrical resistance has been reduced to the lower value.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: outputting a signal, wherein the signal is output responsive to the detecting that the starting electrical resistance has been reduced, and wherein the signal is a visual signal, an audio signal or any combinations thereof.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein: in a first case, the first two-dimensional layer is Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2), the Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2) is applied to the substrate by a first film deposition, the second two-dimensional layer is Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2), and the Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2) is applied to the first two-dimensional layer by a second film deposition; or in a second case, the first two-dimensional layer is Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2), the Molybdenum Diselenide (MoSe2) is applied to the substrate by a third film deposition, the second two-dimensional layer is Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2) and the Molybdenum Disulfide (MoS2) is applied to the first two-dimensional layer by a fourth film deposition.
21. The device of claim 17, further comprising circuitry configured to detect the starting electrical resistance.
</claims>
</document>
