<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/36,G06Q20/40,G06Q20/42,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALMASAN, RARES IOAN
HENRY, REBECCA L.
Wolf, Kenneth M.
Singh, Swatee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456953
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYPER-PERSONALIZED IDENTITY-BASED FINANCIAL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identity-based interconnected transactions are disclosed. The system may receive an interconnected transaction request comprising a first financial subsystem identifier, a second financial subsystem identifier, and a transaction request. The first financial subsystem and the second financial subsystem may not be in direct communication with each other. The first financial subsystem may write the interconnected transaction request to an interconnected transaction ledger. The second financial subsystem may retrieve the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger. In response to retrieving the interconnected transaction request the second financial subsystem may complete the transaction request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a financial system, an interconnected transaction request comprising a first financial subsystem identifier, a second financial subsystem identifier, and a transaction request, wherein a first financial subsystem associated with the first financial subsystem identifier and a second financial subsystem associated with the second financial subsystem identifier are not in direct communication with each other; writing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request to an interconnected transaction ledger; retrieving, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger; and completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the transaction request from the interconnected transaction request, in response to retrieving the interconnected transaction request.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising completing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, a first system transaction request in response to the receiving the interconnected transaction request, wherein the transaction request comprises the first system transaction request and a second system transaction request.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the completing the transaction request comprises completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the second system transaction request from the transaction request.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the interconnected transaction request is transmitted by a first user, wherein the first system transaction request is associated with a first account of the first user, and wherein the second system transaction request defines a second account associated with a second user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the interconnected transaction ledger comprises a blockchain-based technology.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first financial subsystem comprises a blockchain node, and wherein the interconnected transaction request is written to the interconnected transaction ledger via the blockchain node.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the first financial subsystem communicates with a ledger communicator to write the interconnected transaction request to the interconnected transaction ledger.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a knowledge system monitors the writing the interconnected transaction request to the interconnected transaction ledger and the retrieving the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger, and wherein the knowledge system generates an identity-based recommendation based on the monitoring.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the knowledge system generates the identity-based recommendation using a machine learning model.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the identity-based recommendation comprises at least one of a financial system recommendation or a user recommendation.
11. A system comprising: a processor; and a tangible, non-transitory memory configured to communicate with the processor, the tangible, non-transitory memory having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause a financial system to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the financial system, an interconnected transaction request comprising a first financial subsystem identifier, a second financial subsystem identifier, and a transaction request, wherein a first financial subsystem associated with the first financial subsystem identifier and a second financial subsystem associated with the second financial subsystem identifier are not in direct communication with each other; writing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request to an interconnected transaction ledger; and retrieving, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger; and completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the transaction request from the interconnected transaction request, in response to retrieving the interconnected transaction request.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising: completing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, a first system transaction request in response to the receiving the interconnected transaction request, wherein the transaction request comprises the first system transaction request and a second system transaction request; and completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the second system transaction request from the transaction request.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the interconnected transaction request is transmitted by a first user, wherein the first system transaction request is associated with a first account of the first user, and wherein the second system transaction request defines a second account associated with a second user.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the interconnected transaction ledger comprises a blockchain-based technology, and wherein the first financial subsystem writes the interconnected transaction request to the interconnected transaction ledger using a blockchain node or a ledger communicator.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein a knowledge system monitors the writing the interconnected transaction request to the interconnected transaction ledger and the retrieving the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger, wherein the knowledge system generates an identity-based recommendation based on the monitoring, and wherein the identity-based recommendation comprises at least one of a financial system recommendation or a user recommendation.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the knowledge system generates the identity-based recommendation using a machine learning model.
17. An article of manufacture including a non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by a financial system, cause the financial system to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the financial system, an interconnected transaction request comprising a first financial subsystem identifier, a second financial subsystem identifier, and a transaction request, wherein a first financial subsystem associated with the first financial subsystem identifier and a second financial subsystem associated with the second financial subsystem identifier are not in direct communication with each other; writing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request to an interconnected transaction ledger; retrieving, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the interconnected transaction request from the interconnected transaction ledger; and completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the transaction request from the interconnected transaction request, in response to retrieving the interconnected transaction request.
18. The article of claim 17, further comprising: completing, by the first financial subsystem of the financial system, a first system transaction request in response to the receiving the interconnected transaction request, wherein the transaction request comprises the first system transaction request and a second system transaction request; and completing, by the second financial subsystem of the financial system, the second system transaction request from the transaction request.
19. The article of claim 18, wherein the interconnected transaction request is transmitted by a first user, wherein the first system transaction request is associated with a first account of the first user, and wherein the second system transaction request defines a second account associated with a second user.
20. The article of claim 17, wherein the interconnected transaction ledger comprises a blockchain-based technology, and wherein the first financial subsystem writes the interconnected transaction request to the interconnected transaction ledger using a blockchain node or a ledger communicator.
</claims>
</document>
