<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/406,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHERIAN, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62193281
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPECTROGRAPHIC MONITORING USING A NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A method of processing a substrate includes subjecting a substrate to processing that modifies a thickness of an outer layer of the substrate, measuring a spectrum of light reflected from the substrate during processing, reducing the dimensionality of the measured spectrum to generate a plurality of component values, generating a characterizing value using an artificial neural network, and determining at least one of whether to halt processing of the substrate or an adjustment for a processing parameter based on the characterizing value. The artificial neural network has a plurality of input nodes to receive the plurality of component values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-10. (canceled)
11. A computer program product for controlling processing of a substrate, the computer program product tangibly embodied in a non-transitory computer readable media and comprising instructions for causing a processor to: receive, from an in-situ optical monitoring system, a measured spectrum of light reflected from a substrate undergoing processing that modifies a thickness of an outer layer of the substrate; reduce a dimensionality of the measured spectrum to generate a plurality of component values by performing, on the measured spectrum, a transformation based on a plurality of reference spectra; generate a characterizing value using an artificial neural network, the artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes to receive the plurality of component values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node; and determine at least one of whether to halt processing of the substrate or an adjustment for a processing parameter based on the characterizing value.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the transformation is based on spectral feature components extracted from the plurality of reference spectra by feature extraction applied to the plurality of reference spectra.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, comprising instructions to perform feature extraction on the plurality of reference spectra to generate the plurality of spectral feature components.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the instructions to perform feature extraction comprise instructions to perform principal component analysis, singular value decomposition, independent component analysis, or autoencoding.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, comprising instructions to perform dimensional reduction on two or more of the plurality of reference spectra that have known characteristic values to generate training data.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, comprising instructions to train the artificial neural network by backpropagation using the training data and the known characteristic values.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the two or more spectra includes fewer spectra than the plurality of spectra.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein neural network comprises at least one input node configured to receive at least one of a prior measurement of the substrate, a measurement of a prior substrate, a measurement from another sensor in a processing system in which the substrate undergoes processing, a measurement from a sensor that is outside the processing system, a value from a processing recipe stored by a controller of the processing system, or a value of a variable tracked by the controller.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, comprising instructions to cause a chemical mechanical polishing system to polish the substrate, and to receive the measured spectrum of light from the in-situ optical monitoring system during polishing of the substrate.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the instructions to determine at least one of whether to halt processing of the substrate or an adjustment for a processing parameter comprise instructions to modify a pressure in a carrier head of the chemical mechanical polishing system.
21. A method of processing a substrate, comprising: subjecting a substrate to processing that modifies a thickness of an outer layer of the substrate; measuring during the processing with an in-situ optical monitoring system a measured spectrum of light reflected from the substrate undergoing processing; reducing a dimensionality of the measured spectrum to generate a plurality of component values using a transformation based on a plurality of reference spectra; generating a characterizing value using an artificial neural network, the artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes to receive the plurality of component values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node; and determining at least one of whether to halt processing of the substrate or an adjustment for a processing parameter based on the characterizing value.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the processing comprises chemical mechanical polishing.
23. The method of claim 21, comprising performing feature extraction on the plurality of reference spectra to generate the transformation.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the feature extraction comprises principal component analysis, singular value decomposition, independent component analysis, or autoencoding.
25. The method of claim 22, comprising performing dimensional reduction on two or more of the plurality of reference spectra that have known characteristic values to generate training data.
26. The method of claim 25, comprising training the artificial neural network by backpropagation using the training data and the known characteristic values.
27. A polishing system, comprising: a support to hold a polishing pad; a carrier head to hold a substrate in contact with the polishing pad; a motor to generate relative motion between the support and the carrier head; an in-situ optical monitoring system to measure a spectrum of light reflected from the substrate during polishing; and a controller configured to receive, from then optical in-situ monitoring system, a measured spectrum of light reflected from the substrate undergoing processing, reduce a dimensionality of the measured spectrum to generate a plurality of component values using a transformation based on a plurality of reference spectra, generate a characterizing value using an artificial neural network, the artificial neural network having a plurality of input nodes to receive the plurality of component values, an output node to output the characterizing value, and a plurality of hidden nodes connecting the input nodes to the output node, and determine at least one of whether to halt processing of the substrate or an adjustment for a processing parameter based on the characterizing value.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the transformation is based on spectral feature components extracted from the plurality of reference spectra by feature extraction applied to the plurality of reference spectra.
29. The system of claim 27, wherein the controller is configured to train the artificial neural network by backpropagation using training data generated by performing dimensional reduction on two or more of the plurality of reference spectra that have known characteristic values, and the known characteristic values.
30. The system of claim 27, wherein the controller is configured to modify a pressure in the carrier head based on the characterizing value.
</claims>
</document>
