<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOXCONN
HONGFUJIN PRECISION ELECTRONICS (ZHENGZHOU) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YIN, JI-XIANG
SHAN, JIANG-FENG
KAO, YI-TAO
CHANG, MING-CHI
ZHUANG, ZHI-XIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73500464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER TERMINAL HARDWARE DETECTION SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A user terminal hardware detection system includes a computing device and an oscilloscope communicatively coupled to the computing device. The oscilloscope obtains a digital signal waveform diagram of a user terminal and sends the digital signal waveform diagram to the computing device. The computing device performs feature recognition on the digital signal waveform diagram using a fault analysis model to identify feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram. The computing device compares the identified feature information to feature information of a faulty hardware module and a fault type of the faulty hardware module in a fault type database. The computing device outputs the faulty hardware module and the fault type of the faulty hardware module represented by the feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram according to a comparison result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user terminal hardware detection method comprising: obtaining at least one digital signal waveform diagram of a user terminal; performing feature recognition on the digital signal waveform diagram using a fault analysis model to identify feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram; comparing the identified feature information to feature information of a faulty module and a fault type of the faulty module in a fault type database; and outputting the faulty hardware module and the fault type of the faulty hardware module represented by the feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram according to a comparison result.
2. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 1, wherein: the feature information comprises at least one of voltage information and current information.
3. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 1, wherein: the fault analysis model is a deep learning model based on a convolutional neural network.
4. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 1, wherein the fault analysis model is constructed by: obtaining a sample waveform diagram of a plurality of digital signal samples; dividing the sample waveform diagram into a training set and a verification set; establishing a deep learning model based on a convolutional neural network and using the training set for training the deep learning model; using the verification set for verifying the deep learning model and obtaining a model prediction accuracy according to a verification result; determining whether the model prediction accuracy is less than a preset threshold; and using the trained deep learning model as the fault analysis model if the model prediction accuracy is not less than the preset threshold.
5. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 4, wherein: if the model prediction accuracy is less than the preset threshold, parameters of the deep learning model are adjusted, and the training set is used for re-training the adjusted deep learning model; the verification set is used for verifying the retrained deep learning model, and whether the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is less than the preset threshold is determined; if the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is not less than the preset threshold, the retrained deep learning model is used as the fault analysis model; if the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is less than the preset threshold, the parameters of the deep learning model are adjusted, the adjusted deep learning model is retrained, and the retrained deep learning model is verified until the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is not less than the preset threshold; the parameters of the deep learning model based on the convolutional neural network comprise at least one of a number of convolution kernels, a number of elements in the pooled layer, and a number of elements in the fully connected layer.
6. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 1, wherein the fault type database is constructed by: substituting a known faulty hardware module and a digital signal waveform diagram of the fault type of the known faulty hardware module into the trained fault analysis model; using the fault analysis model to analyze and obtain the feature information of the known faulty hardware module and the corresponding fault type of the known faulty hardware module; and mapping and storing the known faulty hardware module and the fault type to the analyzed feature information.
7. The user terminal hardware detection method of claim 6, wherein: the feature information is voltage and current information corresponding to the known faulty hardware module and the fault type of the known faulty hardware module.
8. A user terminal hardware detection system comprising: a computing device; and an oscilloscope communicatively coupled to the computing device through a network; wherein: the oscilloscope is communicatively coupled to a user terminal through a data line to obtain at least one digital signal waveform diagram of the user terminal, the oscilloscope sends the at least one digital signal waveform diagram to the computing device; the computing device performs feature recognition on the digital signal waveform diagram using a fault analysis model to identify feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram; the computing device compares the identified feature information to feature information of a faulty hardware module and a fault type of the faulty hardware module in a fault type database; and the computing device outputs the faulty hardware module and the fault type of the faulty hardware module represented by the feature information of the digital signal waveform diagram according to a comparison result.
9. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 8, wherein: the feature information comprises at least one of voltage and current information.
10. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 8, wherein: the fault analysis model is a deep learning model based on a convolutional neural network.
11. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 8, wherein the fault analysis model is constructed by: obtaining a sample waveform diagram of a plurality of digital signal samples; dividing the sample waveform diagram into a training set and a verification set; establishing a deep learning model based on a convolutional neural network and using the training set for training the deep learning model; using the verification set for verifying the deep learning model and obtaining a model prediction accuracy according to a verification result; determining whether the model prediction accuracy is less than a preset threshold; and using the trained deep learning model as the fault analysis model if the model prediction accuracy is not less than the preset threshold.
12. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 11, wherein: if the model prediction accuracy is less than the preset threshold, parameters of the deep learning model are adjusted, and the training set is used for re-training the adjusted deep learning model; the verification set is used for verifying the retrained deep learning model, and whether the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is less than the preset threshold is determined; if the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is not less than the preset threshold, the retrained deep learning model is used as the fault analysis model; if the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is less than the preset threshold, the parameters of the deep learning model are adjusted, the adjusted deep learning model is retrained, and the retrained deep learning model is verified until the model prediction accuracy of the retrained deep learning model is not less than the preset threshold; the parameters of the deep learning model based on the convolutional neural network comprise at least one of a number of convolution kernels, a number of elements in the pooled layer, and a number of elements in the fully connected layer.
13. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 8, wherein the fault type database is constructed by: substituting a known faulty hardware module and a digital signal waveform diagram of the fault type of the known faulty hardware module into the trained fault analysis model; using the fault analysis model to analyze and obtain the feature information of the known faulty hardware module and the corresponding fault type of the known faulty hardware module; and mapping and storing the known faulty hardware module and the fault type to the analyzed feature information.
14. The user terminal hardware detection system of claim 13, wherein: the feature information is voltage and current information corresponding to the known faulty hardware module and the fault type of the known faulty hardware module.
</claims>
</document>
