<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONDELLO, ANTONINO
TROIA, ALBERTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605209
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VERIFICATION OF IDENTITY USING A SECRET KEY
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving, by a computing device, a message from a host device. In response to receiving the message, the computing device generates an identifier, a certificate, and a key. The identifier is associated with an identity of the computing device, and the certificate is generated using the message. The computing device sends the identifier, the certificate, and the key to the host device. The host device verifies the identity of the computing device using the identifier, the certificate, and the key.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a message from a host device; generating, by the computing device, an identifier, a certificate, and a key, wherein the identifier is associated with an identity of the computing device, and the certificate is generated using the message; and sending, by the computing device, the identifier, the certificate, and the key to the host device, wherein the host device is configured to verify the identity of the computing device using the identifier, the certificate, and the key.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein verifying the identity of the computing device comprises concatenating the message and the certificate to provide first data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein verifying the identity of the computing device further comprises decrypting the first data using the key to provide second data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein verifying the identity of the computing device further comprises decrypting the second data using the identifier to provide a result, and comparing the result to the key.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier is a public identifier, and the computing device stores a secret key, the method further comprising: using the secret key as an input to a message authentication code to generate a derived secret; wherein the public identifier is generated using the derived secret as an input to an asymmetric generator.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier is a first public identifier, and the computing device stores a first device secret used to generate the first public identifier, the method further comprising: receiving a replace command from the host device; in response to receiving the replace command, replacing the first device secret with a second device secret; and sending, to the host device, a second public identifier generated using the second device secret.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the key is a public key, and generating the certificate includes concatenating the message with the public key to provide a data input for encryption.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the identifier is a public identifier, and a first asymmetric generator generates the public identifier and a private identifier as an associated pair; the key is a public key, and a second asymmetric generator generates the public key and a private key as an associated pair; and generating the certificate comprises: concatenating the message with the public key to provide first data; encrypting the first data using the private identifier to provide second data; and encrypting the second data using the private key to provide the certificate.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the key is a public key, the method further comprising generating a random number as an input to an asymmetric key generator, wherein the public key and an associated private key are generated using the asymmetric key generator.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the random number is generated using a physical unclonable function (PUF).
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and memory containing instructions configured to instruct the at least one processor to: send a message to a computing device; receive, from the computing device, an identifier, a certificate, and a key, wherein the identifier is associated with an identity of the computing device, and the certificate is generated by the computing device using the message; and verify the identity of the computing device using the identifier, the certificate, and the key.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein verifying the identity of the computing device comprises: concatenating the message and the certificate to provide first data; decrypting the first data using the key to provide second data; decrypting the second data using the identifier to provide a result; and comparing the result to the key.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the identifier is a first public identifier, the computing device stores a first device secret used to generate the first public identifier, and the instructions are further configured to instruct the at least one processor to: send a replace command to the computing device, the replace command to cause the computing device to replace the first device secret with a second device secret, and receive, from the computing device, a second public identifier generated using the second device secret.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computing device is configured to use the second device secret as an input to a message authentication code that provides a derived secret, and to generate the second public identifier using the derived secret.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the replace command includes a field having a value based on the first device secret.
16. The system of claim 11, further comprising a freshness mechanism configured to generate a freshness, wherein the message sent to the computing device includes the freshness.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the identity of the computing device includes an alphanumeric string.
18. A non-transitory computer storage medium storing instructions which, when executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to at least: receive a message from a host device; generate an identifier, a certificate, and a key, wherein the identifier corresponds to an identity of the computing device, and the certificate is generated using the message; and send the identifier, the certificate, and the key to the host device for use in verifying the identity of the computing device.
19. The non-transitory computer storage medium of claim 18, wherein the identifier is a public identifier associated with a private identifier, the key is a public key associated with a private key, and generating the certificate comprises: concatenating the message with the public key to provide first data; encrypting the first data using the private identifier to provide second data; and encrypting the second data using the private key to provide the certificate.
20. The non-transitory computer storage medium of claim 18, wherein verifying the identity of the computing device comprises performing a decryption operation using the identifier to provide a result, and comparing the result to the key.
</claims>
</document>
