<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906,G06F9/455,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JHA, RITESH
JHA, CHANDRASHEKHAR
MUDNAL, NAVEEN
AWASTHI, SHIVANJU
SRIVASTAVA, AKASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608384
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSOLIDATION OF IDENTICAL VIRTUAL MACHINES ON HOST COMPUTING SYSTEMS TO ENABLE PAGE SHARING
</title>

<abstract>
In one example, configuration data and resource utilization data associated with a plurality of virtual machines in a data center may be retrieved. Further, a cluster analysis may be performed on the configuration data and the resource utilization data to generate a plurality of clusters. Each cluster may include identical virtual machines from the plurality of virtual machines. Furthermore, for each cluster, the identical virtual machines in a cluster may be consolidated to execute in a host computing system such that physical memory pages are shared by the consolidated identical virtual machines in the cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: retrieving configuration data and resource utilization data associated with a plurality of virtual machines in a data center; performing a cluster analysis on the configuration data and the resource utilization data to generate a plurality of clusters, each cluster comprising identical virtual machines from the plurality of virtual machines; and for each cluster, consolidating the identical virtual machines in a cluster to execute in a host computing system such that physical memory pages are shared by the consolidated identical virtual machines in the cluster.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the cluster analysis on the configuration data and the resource utilization data comprises: encoding categorial variables associated with the configuration data and the resource utilization data; and performing the cluster analysis on the encoded categorial variables to generate the plurality of clusters.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein consolidating the identical virtual machines in each cluster comprises: generating a virtual machine migration plan for the identical virtual machines in the plurality of clusters based on resources availability associated with a plurality of host computing systems in the data center, wherein the resources availability comprises a processing resource availability, a memory resource availability, a network resource availability, a storage resource availability, or any combination thereof; and recommending the virtual machine migration plan to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in a corresponding one of the host computing systems.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: migrating the identical virtual machines to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in the corresponding one of the host computing systems in accordance with the recommended virtual machine migration plan.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein consolidating the identical virtual machines in each cluster comprises: sequentially placing the clusters of identical virtual machines on a plurality of host computing systems during hardware upgrade in the data center.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein sequentially placing the clusters of identical virtual machines on the plurality of host computing systems during the hardware upgrade comprises: placing the identical virtual machines in a first cluster of the plurality of clusters on a first host computing system during the hardware upgrade in the data center such that the physical memory pages are shared by the placed identical virtual machines within the first host computing system; and repeating the step of placing the identical virtual machines in a next cluster until the identical virtual machines in all the clusters are placed on corresponding host computing systems in the data center.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical memory pages including identical content are shared by the identical virtual machines using a page sharing mechanism.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the cluster analysis comprises one of a Gaussian-means cluster and a support vector cluster.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the configuration data comprises at least one parameter selected from a group consisting of virtual machine inventory information, a guest operating system type and version, memory information, central processing unit (CPU) information, disk drive information, network adapter information, a type and version of an application, host computing system information, host cluster information, and/or configuration settings associated with each of the plurality of virtual machines.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the resource utilization data comprises performance metric parameters selected from a group consisting of processor utilization data, memory utilization data, network utilization data, and/or storage utilization data.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein each cluster comprising identical virtual machines with similar configurations based on at least one parameter selected from the configuration data and the resource utilization data.
12. A management node comprising: a virtual machine classification unit to: retrieve configuration data and resource utilization data associated with a plurality of virtual machines in a data center; perform a cluster analysis on the configuration data and the resource utilization data to generate a plurality of clusters, each cluster comprising identical virtual machines from the plurality of virtual machines; and a virtual machine migration unit communicatively coupled to the virtual machine classification unit to: for each cluster, consolidate the identical virtual machines in a cluster to execute in a host computing system such that physical memory pages are shared by the consolidated identical virtual machines in the cluster.
13. The management node of claim 12, wherein the virtual machine classification unit is to: encode categorial variables associated with the configuration data and the resource utilization data; and perform the cluster analysis on the encoded categorial variables to generate the plurality of clusters.
14. The management node of claim 12, wherein the virtual machine migration unit is to: generate a virtual machine migration plan for the identical virtual machines in the plurality of clusters based on resources availability associated with a plurality of host computing systems in the data center, wherein the resources availability comprises a processing resource availability, a memory resource availability, a network resource availability, a storage resource availability, or any combination thereof; and recommend the virtual machine migration plan to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in a corresponding one of the host computing systems.
15. The management node of claim 14, wherein the virtual machine migration unit is to: migrate the identical virtual machines to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in the corresponding one of the host computing systems in accordance with the recommended virtual machine migration plan.
16. The management node of claim 12, wherein the virtual machine migration unit is to: sequentially place the clusters of identical virtual machines on a plurality of host computing systems during hardware upgrade in the data center.
17. The management node of claim 16, wherein the virtual machine migration unit is to: place the identical virtual machines in a first cluster of the plurality of clusters on a first host computing system during the hardware upgrade in the data center such that the physical memory pages are shared by the placed identical virtual machines within the first host computing system; and repeat the step of placing the identical virtual machines in a next cluster until the identical virtual machines in all the clusters are placed on corresponding host computing systems in the data center.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor of a computing system, cause the processor to: retrieve configuration data and resource utilization data associated with a plurality of virtual machines in a data center; perform a cluster analysis on the configuration data and the resource utilization data to generate a plurality of clusters, each cluster comprising identical virtual machines from the plurality of virtual machines; and for each cluster, consolidate the identical virtual machines in a cluster to execute in a host computing system such that physical memory pages are shared by the consolidated identical virtual machines in the cluster.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein instructions to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster comprises instructions to: generate a virtual machine migration plan for the identical virtual machines in the plurality of clusters based on resources availability associated with a plurality of host computing systems in the data center, wherein the resources availability comprises a processing resource availability, a memory resource availability, a network resource availability, a storage resource availability, or any combination thereof; and recommend the virtual machine migration plan to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in a corresponding one of the host computing systems.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising instructions to: migrate the identical virtual machines to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster to execute in the corresponding one of the host computing systems in accordance with the recommended virtual machine migration plan.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein instructions to consolidate the identical virtual machines in each cluster comprises instructions to: sequentially place the clusters of identical virtual machines on a plurality of host computing systems during hardware upgrade in the data center.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein instructions to sequentially place the clusters of identical virtual machines on the plurality of host computing systems during the hardware upgrade comprises instructions to: place the identical virtual machines in a first cluster of the plurality of clusters on a first host computing system during the hardware upgrade in the data center such that the physical memory pages are shared by the placed identical virtual machines within the first host computing system; and repeat the step of placing the identical virtual machines in a next cluster until the identical virtual machines in all the clusters are placed on corresponding host computing systems in the data center.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the cluster analysis comprises one of a Gaussian-means cluster and a support vector cluster, and wherein each cluster comprising identical virtual machines with similar configurations based on at least one parameter selected from the configuration data and the resource utilization data.
</claims>
</document>
