<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/448,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED, SHABAZ
CHATTERJEE, MOINAK
DESHPANDE, SARANG
GHATAK, KAUSIK
KRISHNAN, RAVI
TIWARI, SUYASH KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68966076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer-implemented detection of a work-related visit based on data from movement-sensing mechanism(s)
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented technique is described herein for detecting work-related visits. The technique includes receiving movement data from one or more movement-sensing mechanisms associated with a local computing device carried by a user. The technique further includes: determining, using a state machine, and based on the movement data, that a user has commenced a candidate visit, the candidate visit being described by visit data; determining, using the state machine, and based on the movement data, that the user has completed the candidate visit; and determining, using a context-determining component, and based on the visit data, whether the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit for which work has been completed. The technique further includes mechanisms that allow the user to add a content item to the visit data of an ongoing visit, prevent private data from leaving the local computing device, and efficiently consume power of the local computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computing devices for detecting visits, comprising: hardware logic circuitry, the hardware logic circuitry corresponding to: (a) one or more hardware processors that perform operations by executing machine-readable instructions stored in a memory, and/or (b) one or more other hardware logic components that perform the operations using a task-specific collection of logic gates, the operations including: receiving movement data from one or more movement-sensing mechanisms associated with a local computing device carried by a user, said one or more movement-sensing mechanisms including: at least one location-determining mechanism that identifies a current location of the user; and at least one motion analysis mechanism that identifies a kind of motion exhibited by the user, and/or a transition from one kind of motion to another kind of motion; determining, using a state machine, and based on the movement data, that a user has commenced a candidate visit by arriving at an identified site, the candidate visit being described by visit data; determining, using the state machine, and based on the movement data, that the user has completed the candidate visit by departing from the site; and determining, using a context-determining component, whether the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit by determining whether the candidate visit has prescribed characteristics associated with a visit for which work, having a value, is performed, wherein said at least one motion analysis mechanism provides event signals that specify a mode of transportation being used by the user, and wherein the state machine includes state transitions that depend on the event signals that specify the mode of transportation being used by the user.
2. (canceled)
3. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein one mode of transportation corresponds to a kind of pedestrian-related movement and another mode of transportation corresponds to a kind of vehicular-related movement.
4. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further include presenting a graphical user interface presentation during the candidate visit when it is determined that a user has commenced the candidate visit, wherein the user interface presentation provides: a summary of the candidate visit with respect to a current point in time; and graphical icons that provide access to one or more tools, each tool, upon activation, enabling a user to associate a supplemental content item with the visit data.
5. (canceled)
6. (canceled)
7. The one or more computing device of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: determining a power-related status of the local computing device, the power-related status depending on: an input signal which indicates a battery level of a battery provided by the local computing device; and/or an input signal which indicates whether the local computing device is currently connected to an external constant power source; and, setting at least one operating parameter of the state machine based on the power-related status that is identified for a purpose of governing an amount of the resources consumed by the local computing device in detecting visits.
8. The one or more computing devices of claim 7, wherein said setting comprises: setting a type of movement-sensing mechanism that is used to feed movement data to the state machine; and/or setting a frequency of collecting movement data from at least one movement-sensing mechanism.
9. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: determining whether to send the visit data to a remote computing device based on at least one privacy-related input signal; and if said determining whether to send the visit data is answered in the affirmative, sending the visit data to the remote computing device, wherein one privacy-related input signal indicates whether the user has associated a supplemental content item with the visit data.
10. (canceled)
11. (canceled)
12. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein said determining whether the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit comprises determining whether the user has associated a supplemental content item with the visit data.
13. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein said determining whether the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit comprises: using a user profile associated with the user to identify an occupation associated with the user; comparing the visit data associated with the candidate visit with a stored pattern of work-related visits associated with the occupation of the user; and identifying the candidate visit as a work-related visit if the visit data matches the pattern.
14. (canceled)
15. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: for a case in which a work-related visit has been detected, sending the visit data to a post-processing component, the visit data specifying an automatically-determined amount of time that the user has spent on the work-related visit; and at the post-processing component, generating an invoice associated with the visit data based on the amount of time; and sending the invoice to a target entity for which work, associated with the work-related visit, has been performed.
16. A method, implemented by one or more computing devices, comprising: receiving movement data from one or more movement-sensing mechanisms associated with a local computing device carried by a user, said one or more movement-sensing mechanisms including: at least one location-determining mechanism that identifies a current location of the user; and at least one motion analysis mechanism that identifies a kind of motion exhibited by the user, and/or a transition from one kind of motion to another kind of motion; determining, using a state machine, and based on the movement data, that a user has commenced a candidate visit by arriving at an identified site, the candidate visit being described by visit data; and presenting a graphical user interface presentation during the candidate visit when it is determined that a user has commenced the candidate visit, wherein the user interface presentation provides at least: a summary of the candidate visit with respect to a current point in time; and graphical icons that provide access to one or more tools, each tool, upon activation, enabling a user to associate a supplemental content item with the visit data.
17. The method of claim 16, further including determining using a context-determining component whether the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit by determining whether the candidate visit has prescribed characteristics associated with a visit for which work, having a value, is performed, and wherein said presenting presents the graphical user interface when the candidate visit corresponds to a work-related visit, and does not present the graphical user interface when the candidate visit does not correspond to a work-related visit.
18. (canceled)
19. (canceled)
20. A computer-readable storage medium for storing computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions, when executed by one or more hardware processors, performing a method that comprises: determining a power-related status of a local computing device, the power-related status depending on: an input signal which indicates a battery level of a battery provided by the local computing device; and/or an input signal which indicates whether the local computing device is currently connected to an external constant power source; setting at least one operating parameter of a state machine based on the power-related status that is identified for a purpose of governing an amount of the resources consumed by the local computing device in detecting visits; receiving movement data from one or more movement-sensing mechanisms associated with the local computing device carried by a user, said one or more movement-sensing mechanisms including: at least one location-determining mechanism that identifies a current location of the user; and at least motion analysis mechanism that identifies a kind of motion exhibited by the user, and/or a transition from one kind of motion to another kind of motion; determining, using the state machine, and based on the movement data, that a user has commenced a candidate visit by arriving at an identified site, the candidate visit being described by visit data; and determining, using the state machine, and based on the movement data, that the user has completed the candidate visit by departing from the site.
21. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the state machine includes: at least one perimeter-checking state which establishes a spatial perimeter with respect to an identified location, the state machine subsequently determining whether the user has moved outside the perimeter, said at least one perimeter-checking state using a first location technique to determine a current location of the user; and an arrival state and a departure state associated with a start and end, respectively, of the candidate visit, the arrival state and the departure state each using a second location technique to determine the current location of the user, the first location technique being less accurate than the second location technique, and the first location technique consuming less power than the second location technique.
22. The one or more computing devices of claim 21, wherein one of said at least one perimeter-checking states is used to determine whether the user is currently in a state of movement.
23. The method of claim 16, further comprising automatically classifying the candidate visit as a work-related visit in response to detecting interaction by the user with one of the graphical icons.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein the summary provides a map showing the identified site, and an indication of an amount of time that the user has currently spent at the identified site.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein the graphical user interface presentation includes a graphical control that allows a user to indicate whether work performed at the identified site should be billed or not to a target entity.
26. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein said setting comprises: setting a type of movement-sensing mechanism that is used to feed movement data to the state machine; and/or setting a frequency of collecting movement data from at least one movement-sensing mechanism.
27. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the method further includes: registering an extent to which a change in said at least one operating parameter of the state machine reduces a level of accuracy of the state machine; and automatically modifying said at least one operating parameter based on said registering.
28. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the method further includes: identifying actual or anticipated performance of the state machine below a prescribed level; and in response to said identifying the actual or anticipated performance, sending a message to the user, requesting the user to connect the local computing device to an external constant power source.
</claims>
</document>
