<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/14,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING JINGDONG CENTURY TRADING
BEIJING JINGDONG SHANGKE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN YU
AN, SHAN
LI, SHISHUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63522743
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PLAYBACK METHOD, PLAYBACK DEVICE AND COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A playback method, a playback device and computer-readable storage medium related to the data processing field. The playback method includes acquiring several frames in a video and device movement information of a shooting device when the video is shot; acquiring an initial viewing angle and a current viewing angle of a playback terminal used for playing the several frames; determining a frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and a difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle; and playing the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A playback method comprising: acquiring several frames in a video and device movement information of a shooting device when the video is shot; acquiring an initial viewing angle and a current viewing angle of a playback terminal used for playing the several frames; determining a frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and a difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle; and playing the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
2. The playback method of claim 1, wherein the device movement information comprises a moving direction; the determining the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle comprises: determining a ratio of the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle to a viewing range as an offset; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which a frame sequence number decreases, in the case where a moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is opposite to the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which the frame sequence number increases, in the case where the moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is the same as the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; determining the frame corresponding to the offset as the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
3. The playback method of claim 1, wherein the device movement information comprises moving speed information; acquiring several frames in the video comprises: extracting moving speed information from the device movement information; determining a speed level, to which the moving speed information of each unit of time belongs; acquiring one or more frames from frames shot in each unit of time, wherein, a number of the frames is equal to a number corresponding to the speed level.
4. The playback method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring the initial viewing angle and the current viewing angle of the playback terminal comprises: during a playing process, acquiring angle information of the playback terminal in firstly playing a frame as an initial viewing angle; when a change degree of the angle information of the playback terminal is greater than a preset value, acquiring changed angle information as a current viewing angle.
5. The playback method of claim 1, further comprising: inputting two adjacent frames into a deep learning model to obtain image features of the two adjacent frames respectively; removing one of the two adjacent frames when a distance between the image features of the two adjacent frames is less than a preset value.
6. The playback method of claim 1, further comprising: compressing several frames by adopting a Web picture compression algorithm based on predictive coding, wherein a compression quality is between 40 and 80.
7. 7-12. (canceled)
13. A playback device, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, storing program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: acquire several frames in a video and device movement information of a shooting device when the video is shot acquire an initial viewing angle and a current viewing angle of a playback terminal used for playing the several frames; determine a frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and a difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle; and play the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having stored thereon a computer instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: acquire several frames in a video and device movement information of a shooting device when the video is shot acquire an initial viewing angle and a current viewing angle of a playback terminal used for playing the several frames; determine a frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and a difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle; and play the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
15. The playback device of claim 13, wherein the device movement information comprises a moving direction; the determining the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle comprises: determining a ratio of the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle to a viewing range as an offset; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which a frame sequence number decreases, in the case where a moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is opposite to the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which the frame sequence number increases, in the case where the moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is the same as the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; determining the frame corresponding to the offset as the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
16. The playback device of claim 13, wherein the device movement information comprises moving speed information; acquiring several frames in the video comprises: extracting moving speed information from the device movement information; determining a speed level, to which the moving speed information of each unit of time belongs; acquiring one or more frames from frames shot in each unit of time, wherein, a number of the frames is equal to a number corresponding to the speed level.
17. The playback device of claim 13, wherein the acquiring the initial viewing angle and the current viewing angle of the playback terminal comprises: during a playing process, acquiring angle information of the playback terminal in firstly playing a frame as an initial viewing angle; when a change degree of the angle information of the playback terminal is greater than a preset value, acquiring changed angle information as a current viewing angle.
18. The playback device of claims 13, wherein the memory further stores program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: input two adjacent frames into a deep learning model to obtain image features of the two adjacent frames respectively; remove one of the two adjacent frames when a distance between the image features of the two adjacent frames is less than a preset value.
19. The playback device of claims 13, wherein the memory further stores program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: compress several frames by adopting a Web picture compression algorithm based on predictive coding, wherein a compression quality is between 40 and 80.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the device movement information comprises a moving direction; the determining the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle according to the device movement information and the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle comprises: determining a ratio of the difference between the current viewing angle and the initial viewing angle to a viewing range as an offset; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which a frame sequence number decreases, in the case where a moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is opposite to the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; searching a frame corresponding to the offset from the initial viewing frame in a direction in which the frame sequence number increases, in the case where the moving direction of the playback terminal moving from the initial viewing angle to the current viewing angle is the same as the moving direction of the shooting device when the video is shot; determining the frame corresponding to the offset as the frame corresponding to the current viewing angle.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the device movement information comprises moving speed information; acquiring several frames in the video comprises: extracting moving speed information from the device movement information; determining a speed level, to which the moving speed information of each unit of time belongs; acquiring one or more frames from frames shot in each unit of time, wherein, a number of the frames is equal to a number corresponding to the speed level.
22. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the acquiring the initial viewing angle and the current viewing angle of the playback terminal comprises: during a playing process, acquiring angle information of the playback terminal in firstly playing a frame as an initial viewing angle; when a change degree of the angle information of the playback terminal is greater than a preset value, acquiring changed angle information as a current viewing angle.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, further storing program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: input two adjacent frames into a deep learning model to obtain image features of the two adjacent frames respectively; remove one of the two adjacent frames when a distance between the image features of the two adjacent frames is less than a preset value.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, further storing program instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: compress several frames by adopting a Web picture compression algorithm based on predictive coding, wherein a compression quality is between 40 and 80.
</claims>
</document>
