<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/40,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MASTERCARD WORLDWIDE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLBRIGHT, JOSHUA A.
MERZ, CHRISTOPHER JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVED DETECTION OF NETWORK FRAUD EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for detecting fraudulent network events in a payment card network are provided. A plurality of scored payment card transaction authorization requests are received, originating from a plurality of merchants, and data structures for each of a plurality of merchant groups are generated. Each data structure sorts the scored authorization requests into fraud score range stripes. The data structures are parsed over a plurality of time periods, and at least one cumulative metric is calculated for each merchant group for each of the time periods in each fraud score range stripe. A plurality of ratio striping values is determined for each merchant group, and a set of feature inputs is generated using the ratio striping values. A second fraud detection model is applied to the scored authorization requests. Parameters of the second fraud detection model are configured to change based on the generated set of feature inputs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system for detecting fraudulent network events in a payment card network, said computing system comprising: a merchant profiling engine configured to: receive a plurality of scored payment card transaction authorization requests originating from a plurality of merchants, wherein each of the scored payment card transaction authorization requests is associated with a respective preliminary fraud score; generate, for each of a plurality of merchant groups of the plurality of merchants, a respective data structure, wherein the data structure sorts the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with the respective merchant group over a plurality of fraud score range stripes based on the corresponding preliminary fraud score; parse each of the data structures over a plurality of time periods, wherein each of the time periods extends back over a respective predetermined interval from a common starting point; calculate, for each merchant group for each of the time periods, at least one cumulative metric from the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with each of the fraud score range stripes; determine, for each merchant group, a plurality of ratio striping values, each of the ratio striping values being a ratio of a first value of the at least one cumulative metric in a first of the fraud score range stripes from a first time period with respect to a second value of the at least one cumulative metric in the first fraud score range stripe from a second time period, wherein the second time period extends back farther in time than the first time period; and generate a set of feature inputs using the determined plurality of ratio striping values; and a downstream fraud detection model communicatively coupled to the merchant profiling engine, the downstream fraud detection model configured to apply a second fraud detection model to the scored payment card transaction authorization requests, wherein parameters of the second fraud detection model are configured to change based on the generated set of feature inputs.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the merchant profiling engine is further configured to generate a graphical user interface including a graph having an x-axis graduated in units of time and a y-axis graduated in units of fraud score, the graph showing the plurality of fraud score range stripes extending horizontally, each delineated by an upper fraud score threshold and a lower fraud score threshold, the graph showing vertically extending time period boundaries intersecting the x-axis, the graphical user interface displayable on a display screen of a user computer device.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the downstream fraud detection model is further configured to: determine a potential fraud attack associated with a merchant based on the plurality of ratio striping values; and output a potential fraud attack alert.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the common starting point is a time associated with one of the scored payment card transaction authorization requests, and wherein the plurality of time periods includes the predetermined intervals of six hours and twenty-four hours.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the downstream fraud detection model comprises a plurality of machine learning algorithms configured to execute singly or simultaneously in groups, and wherein the generated set of feature inputs is applied to train the plurality of machine learning algorithms operating within the downstream fraud detection model.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the merchant profiling engine is configured to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a tally of each scored payment card transaction authorization request scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the merchant profiling engine is configured to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a cumulative total of transaction amounts of scored payment card transaction authorization requests scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the merchant profiling engine is configured to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a count of declined scored payment card transaction authorization requests scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the merchant profiling engine is configured to generate the set of feature inputs as being equal to the determined plurality of ratio striping values.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the downstream fraud detection model is further configured to calculate a reweighted fraud score for each of the scored payment card transaction authorization requests based on the corresponding preliminary fraud score and the generated set of feature inputs.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the downstream fraud detection model is further configured to generate re-scored payment card transaction authorization requests each including at least one of (i) the respective reweighted fraud score and (ii) a recommendation regarding whether to approve or decline the respective scored payment card transaction authorization request based on at least one of the preliminary fraud score, the reweighted fraud score, and the determined plurality of ratio striping values.
12. A computer-implemented merchant profiling method for detecting fraudulent network transactions in a payment card transaction network, said method using at least one computing device having at least one processor, said method comprising: receiving, by the at least one processor, a plurality of scored payment card transaction authorization requests originating from a plurality of merchants, wherein each of the scored payment card transaction authorization requests is associated with a respective preliminary fraud score; generating, by the at least one processor for each of a plurality of merchant groups of the plurality of merchants, a respective data structure, wherein the data structure sorts the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with the respective merchant group over a plurality of fraud score range stripes based on the corresponding preliminary fraud score; parsing, by the at least one processor, each of the data structures over a plurality of time periods, wherein each of the time periods extends back over a respective predetermined interval from a common starting point; calculating, by the at least one processor for each merchant group for each of the time periods, at least one cumulative metric from the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with each of the fraud score range stripes; determining, by the at least one processor for each merchant group, a plurality of ratio striping values, each of the ratio striping values being a ratio of a first value of the at least one cumulative metric in a first of the fraud score range stripes from a first time period with respect to a second value of the at least one cumulative metric in the first fraud score range stripe from a second time period, wherein the second time period extends back farther in time than the first time period; generating, by the at least one processor, a set of feature inputs using the determined plurality of ratio striping values; and applying, by the at least one processor, a second fraud detection model to the scored payment card transaction authorization requests, wherein parameters of the second fraud detection model are configured to change based on the generated set of feature inputs.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising the step of generating a graphical user interface including a graph having an x-axis graduated in units of time and a y-axis graduated in units of fraud score, the graph showing the plurality of fraud score range stripes extending horizontally, each delineated by an upper fraud score threshold and a lower fraud score threshold, the graph showing vertically extending time period boundaries intersecting the x-axis, the graphical user interface displayable on a display screen of a user computer device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising the steps of: determining, by the at least one processor, a potential fraud attack associated with a merchant based on the plurality of ratio striping values; and outputting a potential fraud attack alert.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the second fraud detection model comprises a plurality of machine learning algorithms configured to execute singly or simultaneously in groups, and wherein the set of generated feature inputs is applied to train the plurality of machine learning algorithms.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising generating, by the at least one processor, re-scored payment card transaction authorization requests each including at least one of (i) a respective reweighted fraud score calculated by the second fraud detection model and (ii) a recommendation regarding whether to approve or decline the respective scored payment card transaction authorization request based on at least one of the preliminary fraud score, the reweighted fraud score, and the determined plurality of ratio striping values.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon wherein, when executed by at least one processor, the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to: receive a plurality of scored payment card transaction authorization requests originating from a plurality of merchants, wherein each of the scored payment card transaction authorization requests is associated with a respective preliminary fraud score; generate, for each of a plurality of merchant groups of the plurality of merchants, a respective data structure, wherein the data structure sorts the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with the respective merchant group over a plurality of fraud score range stripes based on the corresponding preliminary fraud score; parse each of the data structures over a plurality of time periods, wherein each of the time periods extends back over a respective predetermined interval from a common starting point; calculate, for each merchant group for each of the time periods, at least one cumulative metric from the scored payment card transaction authorization requests associated with each of the fraud score range stripes; determine, for each merchant group, a plurality of ratio striping values, each of the ratio striping values being a ratio of a first value of the at least one cumulative metric in a first of the fraud score range stripes from a first time period with respect to a second value of the at least one cumulative metric in the first fraud score range stripe from a second time period, wherein the second time period extends back farther in time than the first time period; generate a set of feature inputs using the determined plurality of ratio striping values; and apply a second fraud detection model to the scored payment card transaction authorization requests, wherein parameters of the second fraud detection model are configured to change based on the generated set of feature inputs.
18. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a tally of each scored payment card transaction authorization request scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
19. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a cumulative total of transaction amounts of scored payment card transaction authorization requests scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
20. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to calculate the at least one cumulative metric including a count of declined scored payment card transaction authorization requests scored within each fraud score range stripe over each of the plurality of time periods.
</claims>
</document>
