<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHAM, HUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61620671
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TRANSMITTING A RESPONSE IN A MESSAGING APPLICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for transmitting a response in a messaging application via a notification can include receiving, at a computing device having one or more processors, an electronic message via a messaging application. The technique can also include outputting, at the computing device, a notification of the electronic message via a system level notification function when the messaging application is executing in a background of the computing device. The notification can include an identifier of a sender of the electronic message, at least a portion of the electronic message, and one or more suggested responses to the electronic message. The technique can further include receiving a selection of a particular response of the one or more suggested responses via the notification, and transmitting, via the messaging application, the particular response for sending to the sender of the electronic message while the messaging application is executing in the background of the computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, at a computing device of a user having one or more processors, an electronic message via a messaging application; generating, at the computing device, one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; outputting, at the computing device while the computing device is in a locked state and without launching the messaging application, a notification of the electronic message via a system level notification function, wherein the notification includes the one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; receiving, at the computing device, a user selection of a particular response of the one or more suggested responses of the notification while the computing device remains in the locked state and without launching the messaging application; and in response to receiving the user selection, transmitting via the messaging application the particular response to a sender of the electronic message, while the computing device remains in the locked state, without launching the messaging application, and without further input from the user.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: in response to transmitting the particular response, indicating the electronic message as read, and removing the notification from a display of the computing device.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more suggested responses is determined by a trained language model.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the trained language model outputs a set of possible responsive messages and associated probability scores based on a preceding message.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the trained language model assigns a probability to an unknown portion of the electronic message based on surrounding text.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the notification further includes an identifier of a sender of the electronic message and at least a portion of the electronic message.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising updating the one or more suggested responses to correspond to a most recently received unread electronic message in a conversation that includes more than one unread electronic messages.
28. A system comprising: one or more processors; and logic encoded in one or more tangible media for execution by the one or more processors and when executed operable to perform operations comprising: receiving, at a computing device of a user, an electronic message via a messaging application; generating, at the computing device, one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; outputting, at the computing device while the computing device is in a locked state and without launching the messaging application, a notification of the electronic message via a system level notification function, wherein the notification includes the one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; receiving, at the computing device, a user selection of a particular response of the one or more suggested responses of the notification while the computing device remains in the locked state and without launching the messaging application; and in response to receiving the user selection, transmitting via the messaging application the particular response to a sender of the electronic message, while the computing device remains in the locked state, without launching the messaging application, and without further input from the user.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the operation further comprise: in response to transmitting the particular response, indicating the electronic message as read, and removing the notification from a display of the computing device.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the one or more suggested responses is determined by a trained language model.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the trained language model outputs a set of possible responsive messages and associated probability scores based on a preceding message.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the trained language model assigns a probability Preliminary Amendment 4 to an unknown portion of the electronic message based on surrounding text.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the operations further comprise notification further includes an identifier of a sender of the electronic message and at least a portion of the electronic message.
34. The system of claim 28, wherein the operations further comprise updating the one or more suggested responses to correspond to a most recently received unread electronic message in a conversation that includes more than one unread electronic messages.
35. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, at a computing device of a user, an electronic message via a messaging application; generating, at the computing device, one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; outputting, at the computing device while the computing device is in a locked state and without launching the messaging application, a notification of the electronic message via a system level notification function, wherein the notification includes the one or more suggested responses to the electronic message; receiving, at the computing device, a user selection of a particular response of the one or more suggested responses of the notification while the computing device remains in the locked state and without launching the messaging application; and in response to receiving the user selection, transmitting via the messaging application the particular response to a sender of the electronic message, while the computing device remains in the locked state, without launching the messaging application, and without further input from the user.
36. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 35, wherein the operation further comprise: in response to transmitting the particular response, indicating the electronic message as read, and removing the notification from a display of the computing device.
37. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 35, wherein the one or more suggested responses is determined by a trained language model.
38. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the trained language model outputs a set of possible responsive messages and associated probability scores based on a preceding message.
39. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the trained language model assigns a probability to an unknown portion of the electronic message based on surrounding text.
40. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 35, wherein the operations further comprise updating the one or more suggested responses to correspond to a most recently received unread electronic message in a conversation that includes more than one unread electronic messages.
</claims>
</document>
