<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAYTHEON COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIXTER, JOHN E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67614732
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK GROWTH
</title>

<abstract>
A method to grow an artificial neural network is disclosed. A seed neural network is trained on all classes in a dataset. All classes in the dataset are applied to the seed network, and average output values of the seed network are calculated. Class members that are nearest to and furthest from the average output values are selected, the class members are applied to the seed network, and a standard deviation is calculated. Perceptrons are added to the seed network, and inputs of the added perceptrons are connected to the seed layer based on the calculated standard deviation. A classifier is then added to the outputs of the added perceptrons, and the seed network and the added perceptrons are trained using all members in the dataset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A process comprising: (a) creating a seed artificial neural network; (b) coupling a temporary classifier to the seed artificial neural network; (c) training the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier using all classes in a dataset; (d) for each class in the dataset, applying all members of each class to the seed artificial neural network; (e) for each class in the dataset, calculating a measure of central tendency of perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network; (f) for each class in the dataset, selecting a first class member that generates a first perceptron output nearest to the measure of central tendency and selecting a second class member that generates a second perceptron output furthest from the measure of central tendency; (g) for each class in the dataset, analyzing the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network to determine a measure of variance from the measure of central tendency when the first class member and the second class member are applied to the seed artificial neural network; (h) for each class in the dataset, adding a first perceptron associated with the first class member and a second perceptron associated with the second class member to a new layer in the seed artificial neural network; (i) for each class in the dataset, connecting inputs of the first perceptron and inputs of the second perceptron to the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network that are determined to have output values that are a threshold variance from the measure of central tendency; (j) adding a classifier to perceptron outputs of the first perceptron and outputs of the second perceptron; and (k) training the seed artificial neural network and the new layer on all members in the dataset.
2. The process of claim 1, wherein the seed layer comprises a two-layer convolutional neural network.
3. The process of claim 1, comprising decoupling the temporary classifier from the seed artificial neural network after the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier have been trained.
4. The process of claim 1, wherein the training of the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier comprises training the seed artificial neural network using all classes in the dataset and training the temporary classifier using output of the seed artificial neural network.
5. The process of claim 1, comprising: analyzing output of the seed artificial neural network and the new layer; selecting a next nearest first class member and a next furthest second class member; and repeating operations (g)-(k) using the next nearest first class member and the next furthest second class member.
6. The process of claim 1, wherein the variance measure comprises a standard deviation and wherein the threshold variance comprises one standard deviation.
7. The process of claim 1, wherein the measure of central tendency comprises a mean, a median, or a mode.
8. A computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a processor execute a process comprising: (a) creating a seed artificial neural network; (b) coupling a temporary classifier to the seed artificial neural network; (c) training the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier using all classes in a dataset; (d) for each class in the dataset, applying all members of each class to the seed artificial neural network; (e) for each class in the dataset, calculating a measure of central tendency of perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network; (f) for each class in the dataset, selecting a first class member that generates a first perceptron output nearest to the measure of central tendency and selecting a second class member that generates a second perceptron output furthest from the measure of central tendency; (g) for each class in the dataset, analyzing the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network to determine a measure of variance from the measure of central tendency when the first class member and the second class member are applied to the seed artificial neural network; (h) for each class in the dataset, adding a first perceptron associated with the first class member and a second perceptron associated with the second class member to a new layer in the seed artificial neural network; (i) for each class in the dataset, connecting inputs of the first perceptron and inputs of the second perceptron to the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network that are determined to have output values that are a threshold variance from the measure of central tendency; (j) adding a classifier to perceptron outputs of the first perceptron and outputs of the second perceptron; and (k) training the seed artificial neural network and the new layer on all members in the dataset.
9. The computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the seed layer comprises a two-layer convolutional neural network.
10. The computer readable medium of claim 8, comprising instructions for decoupling the temporary classifier from the seed artificial neural network after the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier have been trained.
11. The computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the training of the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier comprises training the seed artificial neural network using all classes in the dataset and training the temporary classifier using output of the seed artificial neural network.
12. The computer readable medium of claim 8, comprising instructions for: analyzing output of the seed artificial neural network and the new layer; selecting a next nearest first class member and a next furthest second class member; and repeating operations (g)-(k) using the next nearest first class member and the next furthest second class member.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the variance measure comprises a standard deviation and wherein the threshold variance comprises one standard deviation.
14. The computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the measure of central tendency comprises a mean, a median, or a mode.
15. A system comprising: a computer processor: and a memory coupled to the computer processor; wherein the computer processor and the memory are operable for: (a) creating a seed artificial neural network; (b) coupling a temporary classifier to the seed artificial neural network; (c) training the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier using all classes in a dataset; (d) for each class in the dataset, applying all members of each class to the seed artificial neural network; (e) for each class in the dataset, calculating a measure of central tendency of perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network; (f) for each class in the dataset, selecting a first class member that generates a first perceptron output nearest to the measure of central tendency and selecting a second class member that generates a second perceptron output furthest from the measure of central tendency; (g) for each class in the dataset, analyzing the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network to determine a variance measure from the measure of central tendency when the first class member and the second class member are applied to the seed artificial neural network; (h) for each class in the dataset, adding a first perceptron associated with the first class member and a second perceptron associated with the second class member to a new layer in the seed artificial neural network; (i) for each class in the dataset, connecting inputs of the first perceptron and inputs of the second perceptron to the perceptron outputs in the seed artificial neural network that are determined to have output values that are a threshold variance from the measure of central tendency; (j) adding a classifier to perceptron outputs of the first perceptron and outputs of the second perceptron; and (k) training the seed artificial neural network and the new layer on all members in the dataset.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the seed layer comprises a two-layer convolutional neural network.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the computer processor is operable for decoupling the temporary classifier from the seed artificial neural network after the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier have been trained.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the training of the seed artificial neural network and the temporary classifier comprises training the seed artificial neural network using all classes in the dataset and training the temporary classifier using output of the seed artificial neural network.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the computer processor is operable for: analyzing output of the seed artificial neural network and the new layer; selecting a next nearest first class member and a next furthest second class member; and repeating operations (g)-(k) using the next nearest first class member and the next furthest second class member.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the variance measure comprises a standard deviation; wherein the threshold variance comprises one standard deviation; and wherein the measure of central tendency comprises a mean, a median, or a mode.
</claims>
</document>
