<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALBRIGHT, MATTHEW KEITH
BATES, JOHN BEVIL
EDELL, MAX GRAY
MILLER GAVIN STUART PETER
XU XUEJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRACEABILITY OF EDITS TO DIGITAL DOCUMENTS VIA DISTRIBUTED LEDGERS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments provide traceability of edits to a document, i.e., a verifiable and immutable provenance chain for the document. Systems and methods enable traceability of edits, by encoding, for states of the document, a fingerprint (e.g., a cryptographic hash of the document's contents) and an edit history within a block written to a distributed ledger (e.g., a blockchain). The ledger is maintained via a self-organizing peer-to-peer distributed ledger network. Once added to the ledger, the contents of a block (e.g., the document's fingerprint and edit history) are immutable and the integrity of the edit history encoded in the ledger is secure. The algorithm that generates the fingerprint is sensitive to edits of the document. The non-corruptible fingerprint encoded in the ledger is employable to detect any edits that are not included in the encoded edit history and/or inconsistent with a currently available version of the document.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system for providing a provenance of a digital documemt, the comprising: a processor device; and a computer-readable storage medium, coupled with the processor device, having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by the processor device, cause the system to perform actions comprising: in response to a detected transition from a previous state of the digital document to a current state of the digital document, generating a current fingerprint of the digital document that corresponds to the current state of the digital document; generating a transaction that includes the generated current fingerprint of the digital document and a generated previous fingerprint of the document, wherein the generated previous fingerprint corresponds to the previous state of the digital document; and communicating the generated transaction to a node of a plurality of nodes that collectively maintains a distributed ledger to store the transaction, wherein the distributed ledger is employable to determine the provenance of the digital document based at least in part on the transaction.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the generated transaction further includes an updated edit history of the image and a reference to a previously-generated transaction that includes a previous edit history of the image, and the current fingerprint of the digital document is further based on the previous edit history of the image.
3. The computing system of claim 1, the actions further comprising: in response to the detected transition from the previous state to the current state, providing a copy of the digital document to an image repository; including a reference to the copy of the digital document in the generated transaction; accessing the reference via the generated transaction; employing the reference to retrieve the copy of the digital document; generating another fingerprint of the digital document based on the retrieved copy of the image file; and determining an integrity of the retrieved copy of the digital document based on a comparison between the current fingerprint of the digital document included in the generated transaction and the other fingerprint of the image.
4. The computing system of claim 1, the actions further comprising: updating the digital document to include the current fingerprint of the digital document and the previous fingerprint of the document.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the distributed ledger includes a bifurcated topology that includes a plurality of branches and each of the plurality of branches is associated with a separate version of the digital document.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the digital document includes image data, the current fingerprint of the digital document is further based on applying a tamper resistant image hashing algorithm to a portion of the image data that depicts a particular subject of a plurality of subjects depicted by an entirety of the image data.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon for providing a provenance of a digital document, which, when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the computing device to perform actions comprising: in response to detecting a transition from a saved state of the digital document to a revised state of the digital document, generating a first fingerprint of the digital document that corresponds to the revised state of the digital document; generating a transaction that includes the generated first fingerprint of the digital document and a unique identifier that corresponds to a previously-generated transaction stored on a distributed ledger, wherein the previously-generated transaction includes a second fingerprint that corresponds to the saved state of the digital document and a third fingerprint that corresponds to a previously-saved state of the digital document; and communicating the generated transaction to a node of a plurality of nodes that collectively maintains the distributed ledger to store the generated transaction, wherein the distributed ledger is employable to determine the provenance of the digital document based at least in part on the generated transaction and the stored previously-generated transaction.
8. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, the actions further comprising: generating an updated edit history of the digital document that indicates one or more edits applied to the saved state of the digital document, such that the revised state of the digital document includes the one or more edits, wherein the generated transaction includes the updated edit history of the digital document and the previously-generated transaction includes a previous edit history of the digital document.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, the actions further comprising: storing a copy of the digital document in a digital document repository, wherein the copy of the digital document is in the revised state; including a reference to the stored copy of the digital document in the generated transaction; in response to a user request, accessing the reference to the stored copy of the digital document; and employing the accessed reference to the stored copy of the digital document to retrieve the stored copy of the digital document.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the actions further comprise: in response to detecting the transition from the saved state of the digital document to the revised state of the digital document, updating structured data that encodes the digital document to include the current fingerprint of the digital document, an updated edit history of the digital document, the unique identifier that corresponds to the previously-generated transaction, the second fingerprint of the digital document, and a reference to a repository copy of the digital document, wherein the repository copy of the digital document is in the current state.
11. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 7, wherein the actions further comprise: employing the node to generate a current block based on the generated transaction; in response to receiving a distributed consensus from the plurality of nodes validating the current block, adding the current block to the distributed ledger.
12. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 7, wherein the digital document is an image and the actions further comprise: identifying a subject depicted in the image; employing a tamper resistant image hashing algorithm to determine a tamper resistant image hash value of a region of the image that depicts the subject; and including the tamper resistant image hash value in the first fingerprint of the image.
13. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 7, wherein generating the first fingerprint of the digital document includes generating a cryptographic hash value of at least a portion of the digital document.
14. A method for providing a provenance of a document, comprising: steps for generating the document; steps for storing a first cryptographic hash of the document in a blockchain; steps for detecting a state transition of the document; and steps for storing a second cryptographic hash of the document in the blockchain, wherein the second cryptographic hash of the document is generated in response to the detected state transition of the document.
15. The method for claim 14, further comprising: steps for generating an edit history of the document; and steps for storing the edit history of the document in the blockchain.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: steps for storing a copy of the document in a document repository; steps for storing a reference link to the copy of the document in the blockchain; and steps for employing the reference link to provide the copy of the document to a user.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: steps for storing metadata associated with the document in the blockchain, wherein a file format for the document stores the metadata and a fingerprint for the document that includes the second cryptographic hash of the document.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: in response to detecting a distribution of the document to one or more users, steps for generating a bifurcation in the blockchain.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: steps for identifying one or more regions in the image that depict one or more subjects; and steps for generating a tamper resistant image hash value of each of the one or more regions in the image, wherein the first cryptographic hash value includes the tamper resistant image hash value for each of the one or more regions in the image and the tamper resistant image hash value for each of the one or more regions is a fingerprint for the corresponding subject depicted in the region.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the document is an image captured by a camera and the camera is employed to generate the first cryptographic hash of the image.
</claims>
</document>
