<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/26,G06Q50/28,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Sundar, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
NICOL, GAVIN
Gill, Jagjeet
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065238
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Blockchain Based Supply Chain Network Systems
</title>

<abstract>
A blockchain based supply chain network is provided. The network provides a supply chain monitoring system and marketplace including (a) raw materials, textile, and apparel sourcing marketplace, including services and capabilities, and textile, trim, components, accessories; (b) tracking system for engagement, environmental and social labor performance; (c) marketplace and transactional layer with an embedded blockchain platform that helps create trust between participants of the supply chain. The supply chain monitoring system and marketplace can provide a level of transparency and traceability fin the apparel market that has not been seen before in conventional supply chain systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. (canceled)
3. (canceled)
4. An apparatus for determining supplier risk of suppliers in a supply chain network, the apparatus comprising: a supply chain network including a plurality of suppliers having respective supplier nodes; a memory configured to store a mathematical model specific to an industry; and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor configured to identify target data, associated with a supplier in the supply chain network, in real-time and use the mathematical model to compute a confidence score, for meeting a sustainability standard, to the supplier based on the target data, the score reflecting trade and environmental practices of the supplier in the industry, where the computed confidence score of a respective supplier in the supply chain network reflects a level of trustworthiness in the supply chain network.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the industry is a fashion industry and the supply chain network is a fashion supply chain communications network; and wherein the sustainability standard represents a labor, health, safety, or environmental sustainability standard, or a combination thereof.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein one or more of the nodes in the supply chain network are associated with trustworthiness determined by a consensuses algorithm; the one or more nodes may be associated with respective tokens that compute a confidence score reflecting their level of trustworthiness in the supply chain network.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the mathematical model computed by a scoring engine is configured to employ a combination of parameters to produce the score; wherein the combination of parameters includes a membership parameter and wherein the membership parameter indicates membership or certification of the supplier in a labor or environmental organization.
8. (canceled)
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the combination of parameters further includes a location parameter and wherein the location parameter indicates a country risk on the supplier supplying to a given country, the country risk based on an international labor organization country risk assessment for the given country; the combination of parameters further includes a buyer parameter and wherein the buyer parameter indicates whether the supplier supplies to buyers in a curated list, the buyers in the curated list associated with buyer scores, each buyer score based on an assessment of respective corporate social responsibility and engagement effort of the buyer in sustainable labor and environmental practices; and the combination of parameters further includes a material ranking.
10. (canceled)
11. (canceled)
12. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to apply respective weights to parameters of the combination of parameters.
13. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the mathematical model is configured to determine whether the supplier passes at least one parameter of the combination of parameters based on the target data and wherein the processor is further configured to implement a data mining process to identify the target data; wherein the data mining process includes processing a web link to identify the target data and wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether the supplier passes the at least one parameter based on the target data; and wherein processing the web link includes using real-time website pinging to retrieve underlying web elements that store the target data.
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein, in an event a web element of the underlying web elements is known, the data mining process further includes processing the web element using Server-Side jQuery; and wherein, in an event a web element of the underlying web elements is not known, the data mining process further includes parsing a webpage, accessed via the web link, wherein the parsing includes extracting data and sending the data extract to a Python text processing server for identifying the target data from the data sent.
17. (canceled)
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the Python text processing server is configured to use at least one machine learning method, the at least one machine learning system configured to determine whether the supplier is mentioned in the web page and, in an event the supplier is mentioned, the machine learning method is further to configured to determine whether the supplier is mentioned with a positive or negative reference.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the data mining process includes processing a portable document format (PDF) document, accessed via a link, to identify the target data; wherein, in an event the PDF document is a report, the data mining process includes: using at least one machine learning method to check for reference to the supplier in the report and, in an event the supplier is referenced, the data mining process further includes sending the PDF document to a JAVA server, the JAVA server configured to determine whether the PDF document includes one or more PDF tables.
20. (canceled)
21. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein, in an event it is determined that the PDF document does include the one or more PDF tables, the processor is further configured to identify and extract the target data from the one or more PDF tables; wherein the data mining process includes processing text content to identify the target data and wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether the supplier passes the at least one parameter based on the target data; and wherein the data mining process includes mining web links for the target data on a scheduled basis.
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the data mining process includes mining web links, PDF documents, or text content to identify and extract the target data; and wherein the data mining process includes storing the target data in an Object Storage database with a timestamp of the storing.
25. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the data mining process includes storing the target data in an Object Storage database with a timestamp of the storing.
26. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the apparatus is coupled to a blockchain network and wherein the data mining process includes mining data stored on the blockchain network.
27. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the processor is electronically coupled to a blockchain network in communication with the supply chain network; and wherein the processor is further configured to execute a smart contract, the smart contract configured to register participants of the supply chain network; where the blockchain network is a portion of a supply chain monitoring system.
28. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the smart contract is further configured to register factory location information of the supplier, capacity information of the supplier, or the score of the supplier, or a combination thereof, on the blockchain network.
29. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein an attestation of correctness or incorrectness of the capacity information of the supplier is registered to the blockchain network, the attestation registered by at least one validator configured to examine capacity data that has been entered into the blockchain network and validate correctness thereof.
30. The apparatus of claim 4, further comprising a human-machine interface, wherein the processor is further configured to provide a recommendation to a user via the human-machine interface, and wherein the recommendation is for using the supplier to obtain a resource.
31. A method of determining supplier risk of suppliers in a supply chain network, the method comprising: storing a mathematical model specific to an industry; identify target data, associated with a supplier in a supply chain network, in real-time and using the mathematical model to compute and assign a score, for meeting a sustainability standard, to the supplier based on the target data, the score reflecting trade and environmental practices of the supplier in the industry; and computationally attesting to a level of trustworthiness of a supply node in the supply chain network based on a respective confidence score assigned to the supply node.
32. (canceled)
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. (canceled)
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. (canceled)
42. (canceled)
43. (canceled)
44. (canceled)
45. (canceled)
46. (canceled)
47. (canceled)
48. (canceled)
49. (canceled)
50. (canceled)
51. (canceled)
52. (canceled)
53. (canceled)
54. (canceled)
55. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising the processor registering factory location information of the supplier, capacity information of the supplier, or the score of the supplier, or a combination thereof, on the blockchain network; the processor executing processes to examine capacity data of the supplier entered into the blockchain network and validating correctness thereof; and the processor registering an attestation of correctness or incorrectness of the capacity information validated to the blockchain network; and the processor causing a recommendation to be delivered to a user device, wherein the recommendation is for using the supplier to obtain a resource.
56. (canceled)
57. (canceled)
58. The apparatus of claim 27 wherein the processor is directed to securely handle an RFP from the blockchain network including: transmitting an RFP request from a client device in the supply chain network to an attestation server, the RFP request being signed and securely transmitted from a trusted entity in the blockchain network; receiving at the attestation server the securely transmitted RFP, the assertion server configured with a consensus of the trustworthiness of respective nodes of the transaction network; in response to determining which supply nodes in the blockchain network meet a threshold level of trustworthiness, allowing the RFP to be transmitted to one or more of the supply nodes meeting the threshold, the transmitted RFP request returning a response from one or more of the respective nodes having met the threshold level of trustworthiness; and transmitting the response to the client device in the supply chain network, the response being signed and securely transmitted from blockchain network.
</claims>
</document>
