<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/026,A61B5/1455,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EAST CAROLINA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU, XIN HUA
CHEN CHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70155385
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Non-Contact Multispectral Imaging for Blood Oxygen Level and Perfusion Measurement and Related Systems and Computer Program Products
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for non-contact imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample are provided including a control unit configured to facilitate acquisition of data from a sample; a data acquisition module coupled to the control unit, the data acquisition module configured to illuminate a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from the control unit; and an image processing module configured calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength and extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for non-contact imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample, the system comprising: a control unit configured to facilitate acquisition of data from a sample; a data acquisition module coupled to the control unit, the data acquisition module configured to illuminate a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from the control unit; and an image processing module configured calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength and extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data acquisition module comprises: a plurality of sets of light emitting diodes (LEDs) each having an associated wavelength; and a camera coupled to the plurality of sets of LEDs, wherein each set of LEDs is configured to illuminate the FOV of the sample at the associated wavelength responsive to a unique driving current from the control unit to provide an image of the FOV of the sample at the associated wavelength.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of images are acquired at the associated plurality of wavelengths using a narrow bandwidth in a range from about 0.2 nm to about 50 nm.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the camera comprises a charge coupled device (CCD) camera and wherein each of LEDs have an optical power of at least 500 mW per wavelength.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data comprises extracting heart-rate based mapping of blood vessel volume changes and detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
6. The system of claim 1 further configured to obtain a fused image of blood perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues in a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in near-infrared (NIR) regions using the plurality of images obtained at the corresponding plurality of wavelengths.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is handheld.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to self-calibrate.
9. A non-contact method for imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample, the method comprising: illuminating a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from a control unit; and calculating image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength; and extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
10. The method of claim 9: wherein illuminating further comprises illuminating the FOV of the sample using a plurality of sets of light emitting diodes (LEDs) each having an associated wavelength; and wherein each set of LEDs is configured to illuminate the FOV of the sample at the associated wavelength responsive to a unique driving current from the control unit to provide an image of the FOV of the sample at the associated wavelength.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising acquiring each of the plurality of images at the associated plurality of wavelengths using a narrow bandwidth in a range from about 0.2 nm to about 50 nm.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the LEDs are associated with a camera, the camera comprising a charge coupled device (CCD) camera and wherein each of LEDs have an optical power of at least 500 mW per wavelength.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein extracting blood volume and oxygen saturation data comprises extracting heart-rate based mapping of blood vessel volume changes and detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising obtaining a fused image of blood perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues in a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in near-infrared (NIR) regions using the plurality of images obtained at the corresponding plurality of wavelengths.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising self-calibrating a system associated with the method.
16. A computer program product for non-contact method for imaging measurement of blood oxygen saturation and perfusion in a sample, the computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied in the medium, the computer-readable program code comprising: computer readable program code to illuminate illuminating a field of view (FOV) of the sample using a plurality of wavelengths to provide a plurality of images corresponding to each of the plurality of wavelengths responsive to control signals from a control unit; and computer readable program code to calculate image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength; and computer readable program code to extract blood volume and oxygen saturation data in the FOV using the calculated image saturation parameters and reflectance for each of the plurality of images having a unique acquisition time and unique wavelength.
17. The computer program product of claim 16: wherein the computer readable program code to illuminate further comprises computer readable program code to illuminate the FOV of the sample using a plurality of sets of light emitting diodes (LEDs) each having an associated wavelength responsive to a unique driving current from the control unit to provide an image of the FOV of the sample at the associated wavelength.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising computer readable program code to acquire each of the plurality of images at the associated plurality of wavelengths using a narrow bandwidth in a range from about 0.2 nm to about 50 nm.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer readable program code to extract blood volume and oxygen saturation data comprises computer readable program code to extract heart-rate based mapping of blood vessel volume changes and detecting blood oxygen saturation level.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising computer readable program code to obtain a fused image of blood perfusion and oxygen saturation in skin tissues in a visible region and probe deeper tissue layers of lower dermis and cutaneous fat layers in near-infrared (NIR) regions using the plurality of images obtained at the corresponding plurality of wavelengths.
</claims>
</document>
