<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0488,G06T11/20,G06T11/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODGERS, DWIGHT O.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662340
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Path-Constrained Drawing With Visual Properties Based On Drawing Tool
</title>

<abstract>
In implementations of path-constrained drawing with visual properties based on a drawing tool, a digital artwork editing system includes a user interface in which a constraint path can be designated in a digital artwork. A stroke input can be sampled as it is drawn with a drawing tool and for each processing interval of the stroke input, a start point of the stroke input and a tangent line to the constraint path is determined. An end point of the stroke input is projected onto a parallel line that is through the start point and parallel to the tangent line, and a stroke is rendered along this line. Hence, the stroke is rendered based on the stroke input in a piecewise linear fashion, simultaneously constrained by the constraint path and rendered based on how the drawing tool is used.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment for editing a digital artwork with a drawing tool for path-constrained drawing, a method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: receiving a stroke input drawn on the digital artwork with the drawing tool having one or more tool properties; determining a tangent line that is tangent to a constraint path through a closest point on the constraint path to a start point of the stroke input; projecting an end point of the stroke input as an additional point on a parallel line that is parallel to the tangent line and through the start point of the stroke input; and rendering a stroke between the start point and the additional point, the stroke being rendered based on the stroke input and the one or more tool properties of the drawing tool.
2. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the rendering includes drawing the stroke linearly on the parallel line between the start point and the additional point.
3. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising determining the end point based on an amount of elapsed time between drawing the start point and drawing the end point of the stroke input.
4. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising determining the end point based on a distance between the start point and the end point of the stroke input.
5. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising determining the end point of the stroke input based on a curvature of the constraint path.
6. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising, as the receiving the stroke input continues, repeating the determining, the projecting, and the rendering for a new end point of the stroke input as it continues from the additional point on the parallel line.
7. The method as described in claim 6, wherein the rendering the stroke includes drawing the stroke piecewise linearly with a first linear segment between the start point and the additional point, and a second linear segment between the additional point and a new additional point formed by repeating the projecting.
8. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising: receiving a user selection indicating to render the stroke on the constraint path; and moving the start point of the stroke input to the closest point on the constraint path, wherein the rendering includes drawing the stroke on the tangent line.
9. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the one or more tool properties of the drawing tool include at least one of a pressure, a rotation, a tilt, or a speed of the drawing tool, and the rendering includes drawing the stroke with at least one brush property mapped to the pressure, the rotation, the tilt, or the speed of the drawing tool and based on a brush simulation model.
10. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising determining the constraint path including: receiving a selection of multiple curves in the digital artwork; determining at least two of the multiple curves based on the start point of the stroke input; and blending the at least two of the multiple curves into the constraint path.
11. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising receiving an unconstrained curve as the constraint path.
12. A digital artwork editing system implemented by a computing device in a digital medium environment, the digital artwork editing system including modules implemented at least partially in hardware of the computing device, the digital artwork editing system comprising: a stroke parameter module to determine stroke parameters while a stroke input is drawn on a digital artwork with a drawing tool, the stroke parameters based on one or more tool properties of the drawing tool; a sampling module to determine a start point and an end point of the stroke input for each stroke processing interval of stroke processing intervals of the stroke input; a constraint path module to determine, for said each stroke processing interval, a tangent line that is tangent to a constraint path at a point on the constraint path that is closest to the start point of the stroke input; a stroke processing module to, for said each stroke processing interval, project the end point of the stroke input as an additional point on a parallel line that is parallel to the tangent line and through the start point of the stroke input; and a stroke rendering module to render a stroke, for said each stroke processing interval, between the start point and the additional point based on the stroke input and the stroke parameters determined for the stroke processing interval.
13. The digital artwork editing system as described in claim 12, wherein the sampling module is configured to determine the start point for a current stroke processing interval from the additional point of a previous stroke processing interval.
14. The digital artwork editing system as described in claim 12, wherein the stroke parameter module is configured to determine the stroke parameters including at least one brush property of a brush rendering engine for the stroke input based on the one or more tool properties including at least one of a pressure, a rotation, a tilt, or a speed of the drawing tool.
15. The digital artwork editing system as described in claim 12, wherein the sampling module is configured to determine the stroke processing intervals of the stroke input based on a derivative of the constraint path and the speed of the drawing tool to prevent aliasing of the constraint path.
16. The digital artwork editing system as described in claim 12, wherein the sampling module is configured to determine the stroke processing intervals of the stroke input based on a refresh rate of a display of the computing device.
17. The digital artwork editing system as described in claim 12, wherein the stroke rendering module is configured to render the stroke as a drawn line between the start point and the additional point for said each stroke processing interval, the drawn line having visual properties based on the stroke parameters.
18. In a digital medium environment for editing a digital artwork with a drawing tool for path-constrained drawing, a method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: receiving a stroke input drawn on the digital artwork with the drawing tool having one or more tool properties; a step for determining a curve parallel to a constraint path; and a step for rendering a stroke on the curve parallel to the constraint path based on the stroke input and with visual properties determined from the one or more tool properties of the drawing tool.
19. The method as described in claim 18, further comprising: a step for receiving a user selection to render the stroke on the constraint path; and a step for setting, responsive to the receiving the user selection, the curve equal to the constraint path.
20. The method as described in claim 18, wherein the constraint path and the curve include lines.
</claims>
</document>
