<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N3/08,G06Q10/00,G06Q40/08,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MITCHELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
GULATI, ABHIJEET
HYLAND, JOSEPH
LAMBA, PRARIT
NEMANI, RAVI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68109112
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR ESTIMATING REPAIR DATA UTILIZING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND DEVICES THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A method, non-transitory computer readable medium, and an apparatus for automated estimation of repair data includes applying a first generated artificial intelligence model on a received vehicle damage image associated with an electronic claim to identify damaged component(s) on a vehicle without using any metadata. A heat map analysis is performed on the received actual vehicle damage image to identify a damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified damaged component(s). A second generated artificial intelligence model is applied on the received actual vehicle damage image and the damage severity value associated with the identified damaged component(s) to determine repair data and a repair-or-replace designation. The determined repair data and the determined repair-or-replace designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components is provided in response to the received actual vehicle damage image associated with the electronic claim.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automated estimation of repair data, the method comprising: applying, by a computing apparatus, a first generated artificial intelligence model on a received vehicle damage image associated with an electronic claim to identify one or more damaged components on a vehicle without using any metadata, the first generated artificial intelligence database is trained on prior vehicle damage images; performing, by the computing apparatus, a heat map analysis on the received actual vehicle damage image to identify a damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; applying, by the computing apparatus, a second generated artificial intelligence model on the received actual vehicle damage image and the damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components to determine repair data and a repair-or-replace designation or a total loss designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; and providing, by the repair management computing apparatus, the determined repair data and the determined repair-or-replace designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components in response to the received actual vehicle damage image associated with the electronic claim.
2. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising, training, by the repair management computing apparatus, the second generated artificial intelligence model, wherein the training comprises: formatting, by the repair management computing apparatus, the received plurality of vehicle damage training images by applying one or more transformation functions on the received plurality of vehicle damage training images; identifying, by the repair management computing apparatus, one or more damaged components in the formatted plurality of vehicle damage training images based on corresponding metadata; obtaining, by the repair management computing apparatus, actual repair data associated with each of identified one or more damages; and training, by the repair management computing apparatus, the second generated artificial intelligence model by correlating the identified one or more damages components to the obtained actual repair data.
3. The method as set forth in claim 2 wherein the second generated artificial intelligence model is iteratively trained and refined by using a convolutional neural network technique.
4. The method as set forth in claim 1 further comprising, determining, by the repair management computing apparatus, when an adjustment to the determined repair data is required based on an input received from a claims management device.
5. The method as set forth in claim 4 further comprising: receiving, by the repair management computing apparatus, one or more changes to the determined repair data when the adjustment is determined to be required; revising, by the repair management computing apparatus, the determined repair data based on the received one or more changes; providing, by the repair management computing apparatus, the revised repair data to the claims management device; and providing, by the repair management computing apparatus, an adjustment instruction to the second artificial intelligence model to further refine subsequent determination of the repair data.
6. The method as set forth in claim 1 wherein the heat map is a graphical representation of a localized area of the identified one or more damaged components used to identify the damage severity value and a corresponding operation code.
7. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions for automated estimating of repair data comprising executable code, which when executed by at least one processor, cause the processor to: apply a first generated artificial intelligence model on a received vehicle damage image associated with an electronic claim to identify one or more damaged components on a vehicle without using any metadata, the first generated artificial intelligence database is trained on prior vehicle damage images; perform a heat map analysis on the received actual vehicle damage image to identify a damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; apply a second generated artificial intelligence model on the received actual vehicle damage image and the damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components to determine repair data and a repair-or-replace designation or a total loss designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; and provide the determined repair data and the determined repair-or-replace designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components in response to the received actual vehicle damage image associated with the electronic claim.
8. The medium as set forth in claim 7 further comprising, training the second generated artificial intelligence model, wherein the training comprises: formatting the received plurality of vehicle damage training images by applying one or more transformation functions on the received plurality of vehicle damage training images; identifying one or more damaged components in the formatted plurality of vehicle damage training images based on corresponding metadata; obtaining actual repair data associated with each of identified one or more damages; and training the second generated artificial intelligence model by correlating the identified one or more damages components to the obtained actual repair data.
9. The medium as set forth in claim 8 wherein the second generated artificial intelligence model is iteratively trained and refined by using a convolutional neural network technique.
10. The medium as set forth in claim 7 further comprising, determining when an adjustment to the determined repair data is required based on an input received from a claims management device.
11. The medium as set forth in claim 10 further comprising: receiving one or more changes to the determined repair data when the adjustment is determined to be required; revising the determined repair data based on the received one or more changes; providing the revised repair data to the claims management device; and providing an adjustment instruction to the second artificial intelligence model to further refine subsequent determination of the repair data.
12. The medium as set forth in claim 7 wherein the heat map is a graphical representation of a localized area of the identified one or more damaged components used to identify the damage severity value and a corresponding operation code.
13. A repair management computing apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor which is configured to be capable of executing programmed instructions comprising and stored in the memory to: apply a first generated artificial intelligence model on a received vehicle damage image associated with an electronic claim to identify one or more damaged components on a vehicle without using any metadata, the first generated artificial intelligence database is trained on prior vehicle damage images; perform a heat map analysis on the received actual vehicle damage image to identify a damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; apply a second generated artificial intelligence model on the received actual vehicle damage image and the damage severity value associated with at least one of the identified one or more damaged components to determine repair data and a repair-or-replace designation or a total loss designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components; and provide the determined repair data and the determined repair-or-replace designation for at least one of the identified one or more damaged components in response to the received actual vehicle damage image associated with the electronic claim.
14. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein the processor is further configured to be capable of executing the stored programmed instructions to train the second generated artificial intelligence model, wherein the training comprises: formatting the received plurality of vehicle damage training images by applying one or more transformation functions on the received plurality of vehicle damage training images; identifying one or more damaged components in the formatted plurality of vehicle damage training images based on corresponding metadata; obtaining actual repair data associated with each of identified one or more damages; and training the second generated artificial intelligence model by correlating the identified one or more damages components to the obtained actual repair data.
15. The apparatus as set forth in claim 14 wherein the second generated artificial intelligence model is iteratively trained and refined by using a convolutional neural network technique.
16. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein the processor is further configured to be capable of executing the stored programmed instructions to determine when an adjustment to the determined repair data is required based on an input received from a claims management device.
17. The apparatus as set forth in claim 16 wherein the processor is further configured to be capable of executing the stored programmed instructions to: receive one or more changes to the determined repair data when the adjustment is determined to be required; revise the determined repair data based on the received one or more changes; provide the revised repair data to the claims management device; and provide an adjustment instruction to the second artificial intelligence model to further refine subsequent determination of the repair data.
18. The apparatus as set forth in claim 13 wherein the heat map is a graphical representation of a localized area of the identified one or more damaged components used to identify the damage severity value and a corresponding operation code.
</claims>
</document>
