<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RENESAS ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAGI HIROSHI
MURATANI, MASAMITSU
ONDA, KAZUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458116
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE, SEMICONDUCTOR SYSTEM AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A semiconductor device and the like for maintaining a required function while suppressing unauthorized accesses are provided. The semiconductor device 100 includes a main control device 110 and a sub-control device 120. The main control device 110 includes a main memory 112 for storing main programs for receiving external signals, and a trigger signal output circuit 115 for outputting a trigger signal when an abnormal signal process differs from preset signal processing is performed. The sub-control device 120 is coupled to the main control device 110, and includes a trigger signal obtaining circuit 121 for obtaining a trigger signal, and a sub-program outputting circuit 123 for outputting a sub-program to the main control device 110 based on the obtained trigger signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device comprising: a main control device having, a main memory for storing a main program for accepting an external signal, a trigger signal output circuit for outputting a trigger signal when abnormal signal process differing from preset signal processing is performed, and a trigger signal obtaining circuit coupled to the main control device for obtaining the trigger signal, and a sub-control device having a sub-program output circuit for outputting a sub-program to the main control device based on the obtained trigger signal.
2. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: an external signal obtaining circuit for obtaining the external signal that comes by external communication that is communication with the outside.
3. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the external signal obtaining circuit obtains the external signal that comes by external communication using a public communication network.
4. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 2, wherein said external signal obtaining circuitry obtains said external signal coming by external communication according to a predetermined standard.
5. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sub-program output circuit included in the sub-control device outputs a sub-program that does not accept the external signal to the main control device based on the obtained trigger signal.
6. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sub-control device further includes a request circuit for outputting a request signal for requesting the main control device to transfer the sub-program when the sub-control circuit obtains the trigger signal.
7. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 6, wherein the main control device further includes a response circuit for outputting a response signal to the request signal to the sub-control device after receiving the request signal from the sub-control device, and for obtaining the sub-program after outputting the response signal.
8. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 7, wherein the sub-program output circuit outputs the sub-program to the main control device when the sub-program output circuit receives the response signal from the main control device.
9. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: a sub storage device for storing the sub-program, wherein the sub control device includes a memory control circuit for controlling the sub storage device, and for suppling the sub-program stored in the sub storage device to the sub-program outputting circuit.
10. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the main control device includes an abnormality detection circuit for changing an output voltage when the abnormality signal process is performed, and wherein the trigger signal output circuit outputs the trigger signal based on a voltage change of the abnormality detection circuit.
11. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the main control device rewrites the main program stored in the main memory to the sub program when the sub program is obtained.
12. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the main control device further comprises a specified circuit for outputting a specified signal specifying that the trigger signal has been output when the trigger signal is outputted.
13. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 12, wherein said specified circuitry transmits said specified signal to the outside via a communication device.
14. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 12, wherein the main control device outputs the trigger signal to the sub-control device by receiving the specified signal from another semiconductor device.
15. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 12, further comprising: a transmission switch for permitting transmission of the trigger signals to the sub-control device.
16. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the sub-control device includes a reset terminal for receiving holding the sub-control device in a non-operating state, and wherein the main control device includes a program update circuit for receiving an update of a program stored in the main memory when the sub-control device is in a non-operating state.
17. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a communication device for performing external communication and supplying the external signal to the main control device, and wherein the main control device instructs the communication device not to supply the external signal to the main control device when the main program of the main memory is rewritten to the sub program.
18. The semiconductor device as claimed in claim 17, wherein the main control device instructs the communication device to transmit a specified signal specifying that the main program of the main memory has been rewritten to the sub-program, the specified signal indicating that the main program has been rewritten to a preset destination, when the main program of the main memory has been rewritten to the sub-program.
19. A semiconductor system comprising a plurality of semiconductor devices communicably coupled to each other and each of which includes; a main controller having, a main memory for storing a main program for receiving an external signal, and a trigger signal output circuit for outputting a trigger signal when a signal process different from a preset signal processing is performed, and a sub controller, coupled to the main controller, and having a trigger signal obtaining circuit for obtaining the trigger signal, and a sub-program output circuit for outputting a sub-program to the main controller based on the obtained trigger signal, wherein one of the plurality of semiconductor devices transmits a notification based on the trigger signal to another semiconductor device
20. In a program for being executed a semiconductor device protecting method to a computer, the protecting method comprising: a main program storage step for storing a main program for accepting an external signal in a main control device, a sub program storing step for storing a sub program in a sub control device coupled to the main control device, a trigger signal outputting step for outputting a trigger signal to the sub control device when a signal process different from a preset signal processing is performed in the main control device; and a sub program outputting step for outputting the sub program to the main control device based on the trigger signal in the sub control device.
</claims>
</document>
