<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/02,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPP, ADAM L.K.
Chuah, Jern Ern
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHILIPP, ADAM L.K.
Chuah, Jern Ern
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Proximity Based Engagement Apparatus, System, and Method
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, and system to create an entity proximity data structure and to assess an engagement with an entity in the entity proximity data structure based on a proximity metric of a first entity relative to a second entity in the entity proximity data structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for proximity engagement level assessment, comprising: a computer processor and a memory; an entity proximity processing module in the memory, the processor operative to execute the entity proximity processing module, wherein the entity proximity processing module is to instantiate an entity proximity data structure, wherein the entity proximity data structure comprises a plurality of associated entities and a proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities; and an engagement assessment module operative to assess a new engagement instance with a first entity in the plurality of associated entities based at least in part on a first entity proximity metric of the first entity in the entity proximity data structure.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities comprises at least one of a total proximity metric comprising a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and associated entities in the plurality of associated entities and a local proximity metric comprising a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and a subset of associated entities of such entities in the plurality of associated entities.
3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein interaction vectors comprise engagement instances between entities in the plurality of associated entities.
4. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein engagement instances comprise at least one of a verbal or written communication, a presence at a common physical location, a membership in a debt assistant group, a promise to act, or an action to fulfill the promise to act, and wherein the engagement instances are derived by natural language processing ("NLP") from at least one of a social network service, a telecommunications service, a lending service, or location data and wherein the NLP determines the interaction vectors to be positive, negative, neutral vectors with a magnitude.
5. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the entity proximity processing module is to assign a point to the first entity for an engagement instance by the first entity, wherein the point is convertible into a reward and wherein the reward comprises at least one of cash, cryptocurrency, goods or services, debt relief, or non-disclosure of information.
6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the engagement assessment module is operative to instantiate the new engagement instance with the first entity as a loan in a smart contract comprising variable terms, wherein the variable terms comprise at least interest, wherein the variable terms are varied based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric, wherein the smart contract comprises logic executed by a blockchain computer system, wherein the first entity is a first member of a debt assistant group and the creditor is a second member of the debt assistant group and wherein the creditor is a second entity in the entity proximity data structure and the variable terms are varied based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric relative to a second entity proximity metric of the second entity in the entity proximity data structure.
7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the variable terms further comprise a commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan and wherein the commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan is determined according to a payment history, a number of debt assistants, a credit history of the first entity, a number of debt collectors, and wherein the commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan increases if repayment occurs in a shorter period of time and decreases if repayment occurs in a longer period of time.
8. A method for proximity engagement level assessment, the method performed by a computer processor and a memory, the method comprising instantiating an entity proximity data structure, wherein the entity proximity data structure comprises a plurality of associated entities and a proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities; and assessing a new engagement instance with a first entity in the plurality of associated entities based at least in part on a first entity proximity metric of the first entity in the entity proximity data structure.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities comprises at least one of a total proximity metric or a local proximity metric and determining the total proximity metric according to a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and associated entities in the plurality of associated entities and determining the local proximity metric according to a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and a subset of associated entities of such entities in the plurality of associated entities.
10. The method according to claim 9, further comprising determining the interaction vectors based on natural language processing ("NLP") of engagement instances between entities in the plurality of associated entities.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising performing the NLP on engagement instances in communications from at least one of a social network service, a telecommunications service, a lending service and wherein the NLP determines the interaction vectors to be positive, negative, neutral vectors with a magnitude.
12. The method according to claim 10, further comprising assigning a point to the first entity for an engagement instance by the first entity, wherein the point is convertible into a reward and wherein the reward comprises at least one of cash, cryptocurrency, goods or services, debt relief, or non-disclosure of information.
13. The method according to claim 8, further comprising instantiating the new engagement instance with the first entity as a loan in a smart contract comprising variable terms, wherein the variable terms comprise at least interest, wherein the variable terms are varied based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric, wherein the smart contract comprises logic executed by a blockchain computer system, wherein the first entity is a first member of a debt assistant group and the creditor is a second member of the debt assistant group and wherein the creditor is a second entity in the entity proximity data structure and further comprising varying the variable terms based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric relative to a second entity proximity metric of the second entity in the entity proximity data structure.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the variable terms further comprise a commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan and determining the commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan based on a payment history, a number of debt assistants, a credit history of the first entity, a number of debt collectors, and wherein the commission paid for collection activities directed to the loan increases if repayment occurs in a shorter period of time and decreases if repayment occurs in a longer period of time.
15. One or more computer-readable media comprising instructions that cause a computer device, in response to execution of the instructions by a processor of the computer device, to instantiate an entity proximity data structure, wherein the entity proximity data structure comprises a plurality of associated entities and a proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities; and assess a new engagement instance with a first entity in the plurality of associated entities based at least in part on a first entity proximity metric of the first entity in the entity proximity data structure.
16. The computer-readable media according to claim 15, wherein the proximity metric for each entity in the plurality of associated entities comprises at least one of a total proximity metric or a local proximity metric and the instructions further cause the computer device to determine the total proximity metric according to a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and associated entities in the plurality of associated entities and determine the local proximity metric according to a scalar product of interaction vectors between each such entity and a subset of associated entities of such entities in the plurality of associated entities.
17. The computer-readable media according to claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to perform natural language processing ("NLP") on engagement instances between entities in the plurality of associated entities and to determine the interaction vectors based on such NLP.
18. The computer-readable media according to claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to perform the NLP on engagement instances in communications from at least one of a social network service, a telecommunications service, a lending service and wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to perform the NLP to determine the interaction vectors to be positive, negative, neutral vectors with a magnitude.
19. The computer-readable media according to claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to assign a point to the first entity for an engagement instance by the first entity, wherein the point is convertible into a reward and wherein the reward comprises at least one of cash, cryptocurrency, goods or services, debt relief, or non-disclosure of information.
20. The computer-readable media according to claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to instantiate the new engagement instance with the first entity as a loan in a smart contract comprising variable terms, wherein the variable terms comprise at least interest, wherein the instructions further cause the computer device to vary the the variable terms based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric, wherein the smart contract comprises logic executed by a blockchain computer system, wherein the first entity is a first member of a debt assistant group and the creditor is a second member of the debt assistant group and wherein the creditor is a second entity in the entity proximity data structure and wherein the instructions further cause the computer to vary the variable terms based at least in part on the first entity proximity metric relative to a second entity proximity metric of the second entity in the entity proximity data structure.
</claims>
</document>
