<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/73,H04N21/442
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUMBACH, ELLIOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549626
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO FACILITATE INTERACTION BY ONE OR MORE PARTICIPANTS WITH CONTENT PRESENTED ACROSS MULTIPLE DISTINCT PHYSICAL LOCATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure presents systems and methods to facilitate interaction by one or more participants with content presented across multiple distinct physical locations. A current distinct physical location of a participant may be determined. In response to determining the current distinct physical location in which the participant is located, operation of one or more content devices physically present in the current distinct physical location may be effectuated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system configured to facilitate interaction by one or more participants with content presented across multiple distinct physical locations, the system comprising: one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: obtain image information derived from output signals generated by individual capture devices included in a set of capture devices, individual capture devices being physically located at, and associated with, individual distinct physical locations included in a set of distinct physical locations, the image information defining images depicting the individual distinct physical locations; detect, based on the image information, presence of one or more users within the individual distinct physical locations, and identify, from the one or more users detected, a user as a participant; determine, based on the image information and associations of the individual capture devices with the individual distinct physical locations, a current distinct physical location in which the participant is located; and in response to determining the current distinct physical location in which the participant is located, effectuate operation of a content device physically present in the current distinct physical location, the content device being included in a set of content devices, individual content devices in the set of content devices being physically located at, and associated with, the individual distinct physical locations.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein effectuating operation of the content device includes effectuating presentation of content at the content device.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the content presented at the content device is specific to the current distinct physical location and different from other content configured to be presented on other content devices present in other distinct physical locations.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein effectuating operation of the content device includes obtaining information conveyed by output signals generated by the content device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the current distinct physical location in which the participant is located is performed periodically.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by the machine-readable instructions to: determine, based on the image information, a trajectory of the participant; and predict a subsequent distinct physical location in which the participant may be located.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by the machine-readable instructions to: queue content to be presented on a subsequent content device physically present in the subsequent distinct physical location in which the participant may be located; and/or effectuate presentation of content on the subsequent content device prior to detecting presence of the participant in the subsequent distinct physical location.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein an individual content device includes an individual capture device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the individual distinct physical locations comprise individual rooms of a building.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the content device includes one or more of a camera, a television, or a gaming console.
11. A method to facilitate interaction by one or more participants with content presented across multiple distinct physical locations, the method comprising: obtaining image information derived from output signals generated by individual capture devices included in a set of capture devices, individual capture devices being physically located at, and associated with, individual distinct physical locations included in a set of distinct physical locations, the image information defining images depicting the individual distinct physical locations; detecting, based on the image information, presence of one or more users within the individual distinct physical locations, and identify, from the one or more users detected, a user as a participant; determining, based on the image information and associations of the individual capture devices with the individual distinct physical locations, a current distinct physical location in which the participant is located; and in response to determining the current distinct physical location in which the participant is located, effectuating operation of a content device physically present in the current distinct physical location, the content device being included in a set of content devices, individual content devices in the set of content devices being physically located at, and associated with, the individual distinct physical locations.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein effectuating operation of the content device includes effectuating presentation of content at the content device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the content presented at the content device is specific to the current distinct physical location and different from other content configured to be presented on other content devices present in other distinct physical locations.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein effectuating operation of the content device includes obtaining information conveyed by output signals generated by the content device.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining the current distinct physical location in which the participant is located is performed periodically.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, based on the image information, a trajectory of the participant; and predicting a subsequent distinct physical location in which the participant may be located.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: queuing content to be presented on a subsequent content device physically present in the subsequent distinct physical location in which the participant may be located; and/or effectuating presentation of content on the subsequent content device prior to detecting presence of the participant in the subsequent distinct physical location.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein an individual content device includes an individual capture device.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the individual distinct physical locations comprise individual rooms of a building.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the content device includes one or more of a camera, a television, or a gaming console.
</claims>
</document>
