<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G08B1/08,G08B21/02,G08B21/18,G08B25/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORRENTI, MATTHEW DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838538
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED AUDIOVISUAL ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property includes a camera that is configured to capture video data of the property. The monitoring system further includes a microphone that is configured to capture audio data of the property. The monitoring system further includes a monitor control unit that is configured to access and analyze the video data. The monitor control unit is further configured to determine that an alarm condition does not exist at the property. The monitor control unit is further configured to access and analyze the audio data. The monitor control unit is further configured to override the determination that an alarm condition does not exist at the property. The monitor control unit is further configured to, based on overriding the determination that an alarm condition does not exist at the property, perform a monitoring system action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A computer-implemented method to monitor a property, comprising: receiving audio data from a sensor of a monitoring system without receiving video data from the monitoring system; determining, based on the audio data, whether an alert condition is satisfied; in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activating a video camera of the monitoring system to obtain video data; receiving the video data from the video camera; determining, based on the video data, whether a security event associated with the alert condition exists; and in response to determining that the security event associated with the alert condition exists, performing a monitoring system action.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein performing the monitoring system action comprises at least one of: generating instructions to request a security associate to be sent to the property; locking the property or a room in the property; sending a drone to the property; activating one or more systems comprising a lock system, a water sprinkler system, and a fire extinguishing system; or controlling electrical power at the property to be turned on or off.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining, based on the audio data, whether the alert condition is satisfied comprises: at least one of: determining whether at least one of a discrete decibel threshold, an average threshold, and an escalation threshold have been satisfied; or determining whether an audio pattern exists in the audio data; and determining that the alert condition is satisfied in response to determining that: at least one of the discrete decibel threshold, the average threshold, and the escalation threshold has been satisfied; or an audio pattern exists in the audio data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein determining that the alert condition is satisfied comprises determining that the audio data does not include data indicative of a safe condition.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining, based on the video data, whether the security event associated with the alert condition exists comprises: obtaining an image of conditions associated with the audio data received from the sensor; and determining, using a set of rules, that the combination of the image and the audio data corresponds to the security event.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the set of rules is configured by a neural network that is trained based on user preferences and interactions.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, comprising: in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activating one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors; and obtaining contextual data from the one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors, the contextual data providing contextual information associated with the alert condition.
9. A monitoring system to monitor a property comprising: a sensor to detect audio signals and transmit audio data corresponding to the audio signals to a processor; and the processor configured to: receive audio data from a sensor of a monitoring system without receiving video data from the monitoring system; determine, based on the audio data, whether an alert condition is satisfied; in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activate a video camera of the monitoring system to obtain video data; receive the video data from the video camera; determine, based on the video data, whether a security event associated with the alert condition exists; and in response to determining that the security event associated with the alert condition exists, perform a monitoring system action.
10. The monitoring system of claim 9, wherein the processor being configured to perform the monitoring system action comprises the processor being configured to: generate instructions to request a security associate to be sent to the property; lock the property or a room in the property; send a drone to the property; activate one or more systems comprising a lock system, a water sprinkler system, and a fire extinguishing system; or control electrical power at the property to be turned on or off.
11. The monitoring system of claim 9, wherein the processor being configured to determine, based on the audio data, whether the alert condition is satisfied comprises the processor being configured to: determine at least one of: whether at least one of a discrete decibel threshold, an average threshold, and an escalation threshold have been satisfied; or whether an audio pattern exists in the audio data; and determine that the alert condition is satisfied in response to determining that: at least one of the discrete decibel threshold, the average threshold, and the escalation threshold has been satisfied; or an audio pattern exists in the audio data.
12. The monitoring system of claim 11, wherein the processor being configured to determine that the alert condition is satisfied comprises the processor being configured to determine that the audio data does not include data indicative of a safe condition.
13. The monitoring system of claim 9, wherein the processor being configured to determine, based on the video data, whether the security event associated with the alert condition exists comprises the processor being configured to: obtain an image of conditions associated with the audio data received from the sensor; and determine, using a set of rules, that the combination of the image and the audio data corresponds to the security event.
14. The monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the set of rules is configured by a neural network that is trained based on user preferences and interactions.
15. The monitoring system of claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to: in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activate one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors; and obtain contextual data from the one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors, the contextual data providing contextual information associated with the alert condition.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving audio data from a sensor of a monitoring system without receiving video data from the monitoring system; determining, based on the audio data, whether an alert condition is satisfied; in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activating a video camera of the monitoring system to obtain video data; receiving the video data from the video camera; determining, based on the video data, whether a security event associated with the alert condition exists; and in response to determining that the security event associated with the alert condition exists, performing a monitoring system action.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein performing the monitoring system action comprises at least one of: generating instructions to request a security associate to be sent to a property monitored by the monitoring system; locking the property or a room in the property; sending a drone to the property; activating one or more systems comprising a lock system, a water sprinkler system, and a fire extinguishing system; or controlling electrical power at the property to be turned on or off.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining, based on the audio data, whether the alert condition is satisfied comprises: at least one of: determining whether at least one of a discrete decibel threshold, an average threshold, and an escalation threshold have been satisfied; or determining whether an audio pattern exists in the audio data; and determining that the alert condition is satisfied in response to determining that: at least one of the discrete decibel threshold, the average threshold, and the escalation threshold has been satisfied; or an audio pattern exists in the audio data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein determining that the alert condition is satisfied comprises determining that the audio data does not include data indicative of a safe condition.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining, based on the video data, whether the security event associated with the alert condition exists comprises: obtaining an image of conditions associated with the audio data received from the sensor; and determining, using a set of rules, that the combination of the image and the audio data corresponds to the security event.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations comprise: in response to determining that the alert condition is satisfied: activating one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors; and obtaining contextual data from the one or more of thermometers, motion sensors, humidity and climate sensors, the contextual data providing contextual information associated with the alert condition.
</claims>
</document>
