<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COOK, DIANE, J.
DOPPA, JANARDHAN RAO
MINOR, BRYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58524096
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA-DRIVEN ACTIVITY PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
A physical environment is equipped with a plurality of sensors (e.g., motion sensors). As individuals perform various activities within the physical environment, sensor readings are received from one or more of the sensors. Based on the sensor readings, activities being performed by the individuals are recognized and the sensor data is labeled based on the recognized activities. Future activity occurrences are predicted based on the labeled sensor data. Activity prompts may be generated and/or facility automation may be performed for one or more future activity occurrences.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-19. (canceled)
20. A method comprising: determining an activity of interest; querying an activity prediction server for a predicted future time associated with the activity of interest; receiving, from the activity prediction server, the predicted future time associated with the activity of interest; comparing the predicted future time to a current time; and when the current time is equal to or greater than the predicted future time, presenting an activity prompt associated with the activity of interest, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining whether the activity prompt is to be presented for the activity of interest.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on the user-defined preferences defining a relative time at which the activity prompt is to be presented.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining whether a visual indicator, audio indicator, tactile indicator, or combination thereof are to be presented as part of the activity prompt.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein querying the activity prediction server includes periodically querying the activity prediction server.
24. The method of claim 20, wherein determining the activity of interest includes one or more of: determining an activity specified in association with user-configured settings; determining an activity for which no activity prompts are currently pending; or determining an activity for which an activity prompt is currently pending and is schedule to be presented within a threshold time period.
25. The method of claim 20, further including: receiving user feedback indicating an action taken by a user in response to the activity prompt; and determining an effectiveness of the activity prompt for the user.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the user feedback includes an indication from the user that the user has performed the activity, the user is going to perform the activity, the user will perform the activity at a later time, or the user is choosing to ignore the activity.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the user feedback is used to improve an accuracy of a future activity occurrence prediction.
28. The method of claim 25, further including: sending the user feedback to the activity prediction server; and with the activity prediction server, retraining an activity occurrence predictor based on the user feedback.
29. A method comprising: training an activity recognition module based on a set of activity recognition training data; receiving sensor events from an environment; using the trained activity recognition module to label the sensor events with an activity class to generate labeled sensor event data; training an activity occurrence predictor based, at least in part, on the labeled sensor event data; using the activity occurrence predictor to predict a future occurrence time of an activity within the environment; presenting an activity prompt associated with the activity in response to a current time being equal to or greater than the predicted future occurrence time; receiving user feedback indicating an action taken by a user in response to the activity prompt; and retraining the activity occurrence predictor based on the user feedback.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein: the activity recognition training data includes a plurality of sensor events, and the sensor events are labeled with a corresponding activity class.
31. The method of claim 29, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining a relative time at which the activity prompt is to be presented.
32. The method of claim 29, wherein the user feedback includes an indication from the user that the user has performed the activity, the user is going to perform the activity, the user will perform the activity at a later time, or the user is choosing to ignore the activity.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein retraining the activity occurrence predictor based on the user feedback includes using the user feedback to improve an accuracy of a future activity occurrence prediction.
34. A computing device comprising: a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor; an activity prompting application stored in the memory and executed on the processor, to configure the computing device to: determine an activity of interest; query an activity prediction server for a predicted future time associated with the activity of interest; receive, from the activity prediction server, the predicted future time associated with the activity of interest; compare the predicted future time to a current time; when the current time is equal to or greater than the predicted future time, present an activity prompt associated with the activity of interest based on user-defined preferences defining whether the activity prompt is to be presented for the activity of interest.
35. The computing device of claim 34, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining a relative time at which the activity prompt is to be presented.
36. The computing device of claim 34, wherein the processor periodically queries the activity prediction server.
37. The computing device of claim 34, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining a relative time at which the activity prompt is to be presented.
38. The computing device of claim 34, wherein the presentation of the activity prompt is based on user-defined preferences defining whether a visual indicator, audio indicator, tactile indicator, or combination thereof are to be presented as part of the activity prompt.
39. The computing device of claim 34, wherein the processor receives user feedback indicating an action taken by a user in response to the activity prompt, wherein the user feedback includes an indication from the user that the user has performed the activity, the user is going to perform the activity, the user will perform the activity at a later time, or the user is choosing to ignore the activity.
</claims>
</document>
