<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,G05B23/02,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADISON, NICOLE ANN
ZUMMO, MICHAEL J.
HARDER, PATRICK E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280573
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNIFIED BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM WITH MECHANICAL ROOM CONTROLS
</title>

<abstract>
A building management system including building equipment operable to affect a variable state or condition of a building and a control system including a processing circuit. The processing circuit is configured to receive asset data relating to operation of the building equipment. The processing circuit is configured to identify a building device of the building equipment in a fault state based on the asset data. The processing circuit is configured to generate a work order in response to identifying the building device in the fault state. The work order indicates a required maintenance action and a maintenance time window. The processing circuit is configured to automatically populate fields of the work order based on the fault state. The processing circuit is configured to provide the work order to a user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A building management system comprising: building equipment operable to affect a variable state or condition of a building; a control system comprising a processing circuit configured to: receive asset data relating to operation of the building equipment; identify a building device of the building equipment in a fault state based on the asset data; generate a work order in response to identifying the building device in the fault state, the work order indicating a required maintenance action and a maintenance time window; automatically populate a plurality of fields of the work order based on the fault state; and provide the work order to a user device.
2. The building management system of claim 1, the processing circuit further configured to schedule access permissions for a technician based on the work order.
3. The building management system of claim 1, the processing circuit further configured to: retrieve troubleshooting instructions related to the building device; and provide the troubleshooting instructions to the user device; wherein the work order is generated responsive to an indication that a user is unable to fix the fault state based on the troubleshooting instructions.
4. The building management system of claim 1, wherein the fault state is identified based on a determination that the building is not achieving a mode, the mode corresponding to at least one of: an operational mission for the building; a job-to-be-done in the building; or an event occurring in the building.
5. The building management system of claim 1, the processing circuit further configured to: generate a maintenance alert indicating the fault state; and provide the maintenance alert to the user device.
6. The building management system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the work order is automatically populated based on the asset data.
7. The building management system of claim 1, the processing circuit further configured to: log maintenance information provided by a technician, the maintenance information describing an operating state of the building device; and predict a change in a mode of the building based on the maintenance information.
8. A method for maintaining building equipment, the method comprising: receiving asset data relating to operation of the building equipment, the building equipment operable to affect a variable state or condition of a building; identifying a building device of the building equipment in a fault state based on the asset data; generating a work order in response to identifying the building device in the fault state, the work order indicating a required maintenance action and a maintenance time window; automatically populating a plurality of fields of the work order based on the fault state and providing the work order to a user device.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising scheduling access permissions for a technician based on the work order.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: retrieving troubleshooting instructions related to the building device; and providing the troubleshooting instructions to the user device; wherein the work order is generated responsive to an indication that a user is unable to fix the fault state based on the troubleshooting instructions.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the fault state is identified based on a determination that the building is not achieving a mode, the mode corresponding to at least one of: an operational mission for the building; a job-to-be-done in the building; or an event occurring in the building.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating a maintenance alert indicating the fault state; and providing the maintenance alert to the user device.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein at least a portion of the work order is automatically populated based on the asset data.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: logging maintenance information provided by a technician, the maintenance information describing an operating state of the building device; and predicting a change in a mode of the building based on the maintenance information.
15. A building management system comprising: building equipment operable to affect a variable state or condition of a building; a control system comprising a processing circuit configured to: obtain a work order for the building equipment, the work order identifying a location of the building equipment and a time at which maintenance is to be performed on the building equipment; schedule access permissions for a service technician based on the work order, the access permissions authorizing the service technician to access the location of the building equipment at the time at which the maintenance is to be performed.
16. The building management system of claim 15, the processing circuit further configured to generate the work order in response identifying the building equipment is in a fault state.
17. The building management system of claim 15, the processing circuit further configured to: obtain information related to the building equipment from a knowledge base; identify the service technician at the location during the time at which the maintenance is to be performed; and provide the information related to the building equipment to the service technician in response to identifying the service technician.
18. The building management system of claim 15, the processing circuit further configured to: generate wayfinding information to facilitate guidance of the service technician to the building equipment; and provide the wayfinding information to a second user device of the service technician.
19. The building management system of claim 15, the processing circuit further configured to perform a pre-maintenance action based on the work order, the pre-maintenance action comprising at least one of: scheduling lighting equipment to be operated during the time at which the maintenance is to be performed; or scheduling heating, ventilation, or air conditioning (HVAC) equipment to operate during the time at which the maintenance is to be performed.
20. The building management system of claim 15, the processing circuit further configured to predict how the maintenance will affect a mode of the building, the mode corresponding to at least one of: an operational mission for the building; a job-to-be-done in the building; or an event occurring in the building.
</claims>
</document>
