<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/08,A61B5/097,G01N30/72,G01N33/497
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITE DE LIEGE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHLEICH, Florence
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54238220
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR THE DIAGNOSIS OF AIRWAY DISEASE INFLAMMATORY SUBTYPE
</title>

<abstract>
In vitro methods for diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic or eosinophilic airway inflammation in a subject, comprising determining the amount of one or more volatile organic compounds (VOCS) in exhaled breath from said subject. The invention also provides devices for use of said methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An in vitro method of diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic airway inflammation in a subject, comprising determining the amount of one or more volatile organic compounds (VOCs) selected from the group consisting of: 3-tetradecene (C14H28), 1-pentadecene (C15H30), 3,7-dimethylnonane (C11H24), nonanal (C9H18O), and 1-propanol (C3H8O), in a sample of exhaled breath from said subject.
2. The in vitro method according to claim 1, wherein neutrophilic airway inflammation is characterized by a sputum neutrophils count greater than or equal to 70% of the total white cells present in the sputum.
3. The in vitro method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises the steps of: a) comparing said amount of one or more VOCS with a reference value, said reference value representing a known diagnosis, prognosis and/or monitoring status of neutrophilic airway inflammation; b) finding a deviation or no deviation of the amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value; and c) attributing said finding of deviation or no deviation to a particular diagnosis, prognosis and/or monitoring status of neutrophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
4. The in vitro method according to claim 3, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject selected from the group comprising: a subject suffering from paucigranulocytic airway inflammation, a healthy subject, and a subject suffering from eosinophilic airway inflammation; and wherein a deviation of the amount, preferably an elevated amount, of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
5. The in vitro method according to claim 3, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject suffering from neutrophilic airway inflammation; and wherein no deviation of the amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
6. An in vitro method of discriminating neutrophilic airway inflammation from paucigranulocytic airway inflammation in a subject, comprising the steps of: a) determining the amount of one or more volatile organic compounds (VOCS) selected from the group consisting of: 3-tetradecene (C14H28), and 1-pentadecene (C15H30), in a sample of exhaled breath from said subject; and b) comparing said amount of one or more VOCS with a reference value.
7. The in vitro method according to claim 6, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject suffering from paucigranulocytic airway inflammation; and wherein an elevated amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation and/or of absence of paucigranulocytic airway inflammation in the subject.
8. The in vitro method according to claim 6, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject suffering from neutrophilic airway inflammation; and wherein no deviation of the amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation and/or of absence of paucigranulocytic airway inflammation in the subject.
9. An in vitro method of discriminating neutrophilic airway inflammation from eosinophilic airway inflammation in a subject, comprising the steps: a) determining the amount of one or more volatile organic compounds (VOCS) selected from the group consisting of: 3,7-dimethylnonane (C11H24), nonanal (C9H18O), and 1-propanol (C3H8O), in a sample of exhaled breath from said subject; and b) comparing said amount of one or more VOCS with a reference value.
10. The in vitro method according to claim 9, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject suffering from eosinophilic airway inflammation; and wherein an elevated amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation and/or of absence of eosinophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
11. The in vitro method according to claim 9, wherein: the reference value is the amount of the same one or more VOCS in a sample of exhaled breath from a subject suffering from neutrophilic airway inflammation; and wherein no deviation of the amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value is diagnostic or prognostic of neutrophilic airway inflammation and/or of absence of eosinophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
12. The in vitro method according to claim 1, wherein said amount of VOCS is determined using gas chromatography and/or mass spectrometry.
13. The in vitro method according to claim 1, wherein airway inflammation is selected from the group comprising: asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cystic fibrosis, emphysema, bronchitis, acute respiratory distress syndrome, bronchial constriction, coughing, phlegm, bronchial adenoma, pulmonary tuberculosis, pulmonary emphysema and lung abscess or combinations thereof.
14. A device for use in an in vitro method of diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic airway inflammation, or of discriminating neutrophilic airway inflammation from paucigranulocytic or eosinophilic airway inflammation in a subject, said device comprising detection means for one or more VOCS selected from the group consisting of: 3-tetradecene (C14H28), 1-pentadecene (C15H30), 3,7-dimethylnonane (C11H24), nonanal (C9H18O), and 1-propanol (C3H8O), in a sample of exhaled breath from said subject.
15. The device according to claim 14, further comprising a processing unit, said processing unit receiving and processing signals obtained from said detection means.
16. The device according to claim 14, further comprising a breath collector.
17. The device according to claim 15, wherein said processing unit calculates the amount of the respective VOCS from the signal obtained from the detection means; compares said amount of said one or more VOCS with the respective one or more reference value(s) of said VOCS representing a known diagnosis, prognosis and/or monitoring status of neutrophilic airway inflammation; finds a deviation or no deviation of the amount of said one or more VOCS from said reference value; and attributes to said finding of deviation or no deviation a particular diagnosis, prognosis, and/or monitoring status of the neutrophilic airway inflammation in the subject.
18. The device according to claim 14, wherein the detection means is selected from the group comprising: a metal oxide resistive sensor, an electrochemical sensor, an acoustic sensor, a holographic sensor, a conducting or composite polymer, an optical measurement system, a photo-ionization detector, a quartz crystal micro-balances sensor, a thermal conductivity sensor, a bio-sensor and a sensor comprising carbon nanotubes.
19. Use of the device according to claim 14 for diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic airway inflammation in a subject.
20. Use of a device for diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic airway inflammation in a subject by performing the method according to claim 1, for discriminating neutrophilic airway inflammation from paucigranulocytic airway inflammation.
21. Use of a device for diagnosing, prognosing and/or monitoring neutrophilic airway inflammation in a subject by performing the method according to claim 6, for discriminating neutrophilic airway inflammation from eosinophilic airway inflammation in a subject.
</claims>
</document>
