<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R29/08,G06F11/30,G06F21/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAYRINGER, MICHAEL H. S.
GROSS, KENNY C.
LEWIS, ANDREW J.
WANG, GUANG C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71096870
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING EMI FINGERPRINTS TO DETECT MALICIOUS CRYPTOMINING SOFTWARE
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system that detects execution of malicious cryptomining software in a target computing system. During operation, the system monitors target electromagnetic interference (EMI) signals generated during operation of the target computing system. Next, the system generates a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals. The system then compares the target EMI fingerprint against a set of malicious EMI fingerprints for different pieces of malicious cryptomining software to determine whether the target computing system is executing malicious cryptomining software.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting execution of malicious cryptomining software in a target computing system, the method comprising: monitoring target electromagnetic interference (EMI) signals generated during operation of the target computing system; generating a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals; and comparing the target EMI fingerprint against a set of malicious EMI fingerprints for different pieces of malicious cryptomining software to determine whether the target computing system is executing malicious cryptomining software.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the target EMI fingerprint from the EMI signals involves: performing a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitioning an output of the FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructing an amplitude time-series signal for each frequency bin in the set of frequency bins; and generating the target EMI fingerprint by combining the amplitude time-series signals for all of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the target EMI fingerprint against each malicious EMI fingerprint in the set of malicious EMI fingerprints involves: computing a bivariate normalized cross power spectral density (NCPSD) between the target fingerprint and the malicious EMI fingerprint; and when the computed bivariate NCPSD exceeds a predefined threshold, determining that a piece of malicious cryptomining software associated with the malicious EMI fingerprint is executing on the target computing system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to monitoring the EMI signals, the method further comprises generating the set of EMI fingerprints by performing the following operations for each of the different pieces of malicious cryptomining software: executing the piece of malicious cryptomining software on a golden system while all other processes in the golden system are suspended; gathering malicious EMI signals generated by the golden computing system while the piece of malicious cryptomining software is executing; and generating a malicious EMI fingerprint for the piece of malicious cryptomining software from the gathered EMI signals.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein after gathering the malicious EMI signals for a given piece of malicious cryptomining software and prior to generating the associated malicious fingerprint, the method further comprises: training an MSET model on the malicious EMI signals; using the trained MSET model to produce MSET estimates for the malicious EMI signals, wherein the MSET estimates are less noisy than the original malicious EMI signals; and using the MSET estimates while generating the associated malicious fingerprint.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the EMI signals are monitored using an insertable device, which is inserted into the target computing system to gather the EMI signals from the target computing system.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the insertable device gathers the target EMI signals through ground lines or other signal lines in the target computing system, or through a fixed antenna structure in the insertable device, which is optimized for a specific frequency range.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the insertable device comprises one of the following: a universal serial bus (USB) dongle, which is insertable into a USB port in the target computing system; a peripheral component interconnect (PCI) card, which is insertable into a PCI slot in the target computing system; and a hard-disk drive (HDD) filler package, which is insertable into an HDD slot in the target computing system.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the insertable device includes a software-defined radio (SDR) for communicating the target EMI signals with a data-acquisition unit.
10. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for detecting execution of malicious cryptomining software in a target computing system, the method comprising: obtaining target EMI signals generated during operation of the target computing system; generating a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals; and comparing the target EMI fingerprint against a set of malicious EMI fingerprints for different pieces of malicious cryptomining software to determine whether the target computing system is executing malicious cryptomining software.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein generating the target EMI fingerprint from the EMI signals involves: performing an FFT operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitioning an output of the FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructing an amplitude time-series signal for each frequency bin in the set of frequency bins; and generating the target EMI fingerprint by combining the amplitude timeseries signals for all of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein comparing the target EMI fingerprint against each malicious EMI fingerprint in the set of malicious EMI fingerprints involves: computing a bivariate NCPSD between the target fingerprint and the malicious EMI fingerprint; and when the computed bivariate NCPSD exceeds a predefined threshold, determining that a piece of malicious cryptomining software associated with the malicious EMI fingerprint is executing on the target computing system.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein prior to monitoring the EMI signals, the method further comprises generating the set of EMI fingerprints by performing the following operations for each of the different pieces of malicious cryptomining software: executing the piece of malicious cryptomining software on a golden system while all other processes in the golden system are suspended; gathering malicious EMI signals generated by the golden computing system while the piece of malicious cryptomining software is executing; and generating a malicious EMI fingerprint for the piece of malicious cryptomining software from the gathered EMI signals.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein after gathering the malicious EMI signals for a given piece of malicious cryptomining software and prior to generating the associated malicious fingerprint, the method further comprises: training an MSET model on the malicious EMI signals; using the trained MSET model to produce MSET estimates for the malicious EMI signals, wherein the MSET estimates are less noisy than the original malicious EMI signals; and using the MSET estimates while generating the associated malicious fingerprint.
15. A system that detects execution of malicious cryptomining software in a target computing system, comprising: at least one processor and at least one associated memory; and a detection mechanism that executes on the at least one processor, wherein the detection mechanism, monitors target EMI signals generated during operation of the target computing system, generates a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals, and compares the target EMI fingerprint against a set of malicious EMI fingerprints for different pieces of malicious cryptomining software to determine whether the target computing system is executing malicious cryptomining software.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein while generating the target EMI fingerprint from the EMI signals, the detection mechanism: performs an FFT operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitions an output of the FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructs an amplitude time-series signal for each frequency bin in the set of frequency bins; and generates the target EMI fingerprint by combining the amplitude time-series signals for all of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein while comparing the target EMI fingerprint against each malicious EMI fingerprint in the set of malicious EMI fingerprints, the detection mechanism: computes a bivariate NCPSD between the target fingerprint and the malicious EMI fingerprint; and when the computed bivariate NCPSD exceeds a predefined threshold, determines that a piece of malicious cryptomining software associated with the malicious EMI fingerprint is executing on the target computing system.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein prior to monitoring the EMI signals, the detection mechanism generates the set of EMI fingerprints, during this process, for each of the different pieces of malicious cryptomining software, and wherein the detection mechanism: executes the piece of malicious cryptomining software on a golden system while all other processes in the golden system are suspended; gathers malicious EMI signals generated by the golden computing system while the piece of malicious cryptomining software is executing; and generates a malicious EMI fingerprint for the piece of malicious cryptomining software from the gathered EMI signals.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein after gathering the malicious EMI signals for a given piece of malicious cryptomining software and prior to generating the associated malicious fingerprint, the detection mechanism: trains an MSET model on the malicious EMI signals; uses the trained MSET model to produce MSET estimates for the malicious EMI signals, wherein the MSET estimates are less noisy than the original malicious EMI signals; and uses the MSET estimates while generating the associated malicious fingerprint.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the EMI signals are monitored using an insertable device, which is inserted into the target computing system to gather the EMI signals from the target computing system.
</claims>
</document>
