<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06T19/00,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKEMOTO, KAZUKI
Okano, Yu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR POSITIONING PROCESSING BETWEEN IMAGE IN REAL WORLD AND IMAGE IN VIRTUAL WORLD, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
Based on an image captured by an image capturing unit, a three-dimensional position in a real space corresponding to each of one or more features included in the image is estimated, a candidate region that is a region on a plane of an object existing in the real space is determined as a candidate for a region to which features are to be added based on the estimated three-dimensional position, and a recommended region to which the features are to be added is determined in the candidate region based on the number of features included in a partial region set in the determined candidate region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus, comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire an image captured by an image capturing unit; an estimation unit configured to estimate, based on the image acquired by the acquisition unit, a three-dimensional position in a real space corresponding to each of one or more features included in the image; a first determination unit configured to determine a candidate region being a region on a plane of an object existing in the real space as a candidate for a region to which features are to be added based on the three-dimensional position estimated by the estimation unit; and a second determination unit configured to determine a recommended region to which the features are to be added in the candidate region based on the number of features included in a partial region set in the candidate region determined by the first determination unit.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first determination unit is configured to identify a group of features belonging to the region on the plane of the object existing in the real space based on distribution of the three-dimensional position corresponding to each of the one or more features estimated by the estimation unit, and determine the candidate region based on the group of features.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the second determination unit is configured to, in a case where the number of the features included in the partial region is a first threshold value or less, determine the partial region to be the recommended region to which the features are added.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an output unit configured to output information about the recommended region to which the features are added and having been determined by the second determination unit.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the output unit is configured to output the information about the recommended region to which the features are added and having been determined by the second determination unit by displaying the information on a display unit.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first determination unit is configured to identify the plane of the object existing in the real space based on information about a relationship between a plane identified based on three-dimensional positions of three features selected from among a plurality of the features, three-dimensional positions of which have been estimated by the estimation unit, so that the three features do not overlap with one another, and three-dimensional positions of features other than the selected three features.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the first determination unit is configured to acquire features included in the plane identified based on the three-dimensional positions of the three features, with respect to all combinations of three features selected from among the features, based on a distance between the plane and each of the three-dimensional positions of the features other than the selected three features.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the first determination unit is configured to calculate the distance and acquire the number of features for which the distance is less than a second threshold value as the number of the features included in the plane identified based on the three-dimensional positions of the three features.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the first determination unit is configured to, in a case where the number of the features included in the plane is a predetermined third threshold value or more, identify the plane as the plane of the object existing in the real space.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the second determination unit is configured to determine the recommended region to which the features are added, based on distribution of the features included in the plane of the object existing in the real space.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the second determination unit is configured to determine, in the plane of the object existing in the real space, a set of small regions not including the feature, the three-dimensional position of which has been estimated by the estimation unit, as the recommended region to which the features are added.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the second determination unit is configured to determine, in the plane of the object existing in the real space, a portion not including the feature, the three-dimensional position of which has been estimated by the estimation unit, as the recommended region to which the features are added.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the second determination unit is configured to determine, in the plane of the object existing in the real space, a portion having sparse features, the three-dimensional position of each of which has been estimated by the estimation unit, as the recommended region to which the features are added.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the object existing in the real space includes any one of a wall surface, a floor and a table.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second determination unit does not recommend addition of a feature to a portion in midair in the real space.
16. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a parameter acquisition unit configured to acquire a camera parameter of the image capturing unit, wherein the estimation unit is configured to estimate the three-dimensional position in the real space corresponding to each of the one or more features included in the image based on the image acquired by the acquisition unit and the camera parameter acquired by the parameter acquisition unit.
17. The information processing apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the estimation unit is configured to perform estimation based on the image acquired by the acquisition unit and by using a learned model having learned by using the camera parameter acquired by the parameter acquisition unit as input data and the three-dimensional position of each of the features in the real space as output data.
18. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second determination unit is configured to perform determination using a learned model having learned by using the candidate region determined by the first determination unit as input data and the recommended region to which the features are added as output data.
19. An information processing method performed by an information processing apparatus, the method comprising: acquiring an image captured by an image capturing unit; estimating, based on the image having been acquired, a three-dimensional position in a real space corresponding to each of one or more features included in the image; determining a candidate region being a region on a plane of an object existing in the real space as a candidate for a region to which features are to be added based on the three-dimensional position having been estimated; and determining a recommended region to which the features are to be added in the candidate region based on the number of features included in a partial region set in the candidate region having been determined.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium storing a program that causes a computer to function as an information processing apparatus, the apparatus comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire an image captured by an image capturing unit; an estimation unit configured to estimate, based on the image acquired by the acquisition unit, a three-dimensional position in a real space corresponding to each of one or more features included in the image; a first determination unit configured to determine a candidate region being a region on a plane of an object existing in the real space as a candidate for a region to which features are to be added based on the three-dimensional position estimated by the estimation unit; and a second determination unit configured to determine a recommended region to which the features are to be added in the candidate region based on the number of features included in a partial region set in the candidate region determined by the first determination unit.
</claims>
</document>
