<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/10,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIELSEN, KARL A.
BORLICK, MATTHEW G.
GUPTA, LOKESH M.
HARDY, CLINT A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68986838
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING WHEN TO PERFORM ERROR CHECKING OF A STORAGE UNIT BY TRAINING A MACHINE LEARNING MODULE
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a computer program product, system, and method for using a machine learning module to determine when to perform error checking of a storage unit. Input on attributes of at least one storage device comprising the storage unit are provided to a machine learning module to produce an output value. An error check frequency is determined from the output value. A determination is made as to whether the error check frequency indicates to perform an error checking operation with respect to the storage unit. The error checking operation is performed in response to determining that the error checking frequency indicates to perform the error checking operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-9. (canceled)
10. A computer program product for error checking data in a storage unit, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium storing computer readable program code that when executed performs operations, the operations comprising: determining to train a machine learning module; in response to determining to train the machine learning module, performing: determining inputs comprising attributes of at least one storage device of the storage unit; and training the machine learning module to produce a desired output value indicating to perform an error checking operation of the storage unit from the determined inputs in response to detecting the error; and executing the machine learning module to produce an output value used to determine whether to perform an error checking operation with respect to the storage unit.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting an error while performing the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting that an error has not been detected within a fixed number of error checking operations, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting that the error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to not perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting that an error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the training the machine learning module comprises: determining a margin of error of the output value of the machine learning module and the desired output value; and using the margin of error and the inputs to train weights and biases of nodes in the machine learning module to produce the desired output value.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the machine learning module produces output values from inputs from storage arrays of storage devices managed by storage controllers to provide the storage controllers with output values based on the inputs from the storage devices indicating whether the storage controllers should perform error checking operations with respect to the storage devices in the storage arrays managed by the storage controllers.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting a field error independent of the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the field error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
16. 16-19. (canceled)
20. A system for error checking data in a storage unit, comprising: a processor; and a computer readable storage medium storing computer readable program code that when executed performs operations, the operations comprising: determining to train a machine learning module; in response to determining to train the machine learning module, performing: determining inputs comprising attributes of at least one storage device of the storage unit; and training the machine learning module to produce a desired output value indicating to perform an error checking operation of the storage unit from the determined inputs in response to detecting the error; and executing the machine learning module to produce an output value used to determine whether to perform an error checking operation with respect to the storage unit.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting an error while performing the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting that an error has not been detected within a fixed number of error checking operations, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting that the error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to not perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting that an error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations.
23. 23-26. (canceled)
27. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the output value comprises a number from zero to 1 indicating a likelihood that there is an error in the storage unit, wherein the output value indicates to: not perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being less than a lower bound; perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being greater than an upper bound; and adjust an error check frequency based on the output value in response to the output value being between the lower bound and the upper bound.
28. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the attributes of the at least one storage used as the input to the machine learning module include at least one of: an error type if the error checking operation detected an error during a last run of the error checking operation or indication of no error if the error checking operation did not detect an error during the last run; a type of at least one storage device comprising the storage unit; an age of the at least one storage device from first use; a firmware level of the at least one storage device; a read operations per second at the at least one storage device; and a write operations per second at the at least one storage device.
29. The system of claim 20, wherein the training the machine learning module comprises: determining a margin of error of the output value of the machine learning module and the desired output value; and using the margin of error and the inputs to train weights and biases of nodes in the machine learning module to produce the desired output value.
30. The system of claim 20, wherein the machine learning module produces output values from inputs from storage arrays of storage devices managed by storage controllers to provide the storage controllers with output values based on the inputs from the storage devices indicating whether the storage controllers should perform error checking operations with respect to the storage devices in the storage arrays managed by the storage controllers.
31. The system of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting a field error independent of the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the field error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
32. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the output value comprises a number from zero to 1 indicating a likelihood that there is an error in the storage unit, wherein the output value indicates to: not perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being less than a lower bound; perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being greater than an upper bound; and adjust an error check frequency based on the output value in response to the output value being between the lower bound and the upper bound.
33. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the attributes of the at least one storage used as the input to the machine learning module include at least one of: an error type if the error checking operation detected an error during a last run of the error checking operation or indication of no error if the error checking operation did not detect an error during the last run; a type of at least one storage device comprising the storage unit; an age of the at least one storage device from first use; a firmware level of the at least one storage device; a read operations per second at the at least one storage device; and a write operations per second at the at least one storage device.
34. A method for error checking data in a storage unit, comprising: determining to train a machine learning module; in response to determining to train the machine learning module, performing: determining inputs comprising attributes of at least one storage device of the storage unit; and training the machine learning module to produce a desired output value indicating to perform an error checking operation of the storage unit from the determined inputs in response to detecting the error; and executing the machine learning module to produce an output value used to determine whether to perform an error checking operation with respect to the storage unit.
35. The method of claim 34, further comprising: detecting an error while performing the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
36. The method of claim 34, further comprising: detecting that an error has not been detected within a fixed number of error checking operations, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting that the error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to not perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting that an error has not been detected within the fixed number of error checking operations.
37. The method of claim 34, wherein the training the machine learning module comprises: determining a margin of error of the output value of the machine learning module and the desired output value; and using the margin of error and the inputs to train weights and biases of nodes in the machine learning module to produce the desired output value.
38. The method of claim 34, wherein the machine learning module produces output values from inputs from storage arrays of storage devices managed by storage controllers to provide the storage controllers with output values based on the inputs from the storage devices indicating whether the storage controllers should perform error checking operations with respect to the storage devices in the storage arrays managed by the storage controllers.
39. The method of claim 34, further comprising: detecting a field error independent of the error checking operation, wherein the determining to train the machine learning module occurs in response to detecting the field error; and setting the desired output value to an output value indicating to perform error checking to use to train the machine learning module in response to detecting the error.
40. The method of claim 34, wherein the output value comprises a number from zero to 1 indicating a likelihood that there is an error in the storage unit, wherein the output value indicates to: not perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being less than a lower bound; perform the error checking operation in response to the output value being greater than an upper bound; and adjust an error check frequency based on the output value in response to the output value being between the lower bound and the upper bound.
41. The method of claim 34, wherein the attributes of the at least one storage used as the input to the machine learning module include at least one of: an error type if the error checking operation detected an error during a last run of the error checking operation or indication of no error if the error checking operation did not detect an error during the last run; a type of at least one storage device comprising the storage unit; an age of the at least one storage device from first use; a firmware level of the at least one storage device; a read operations per second at the at least one storage device; and a write operations per second at the at least one storage device.
</claims>
</document>
