<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01P21/00,G01S17/02,G01S7/497
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, MAYUR NITINBHAI
NICHOLS, JONATHAN OLIVER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141325
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integrated Movement Measurement Unit
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a system includes an inertial measurement unit, a lidar sensor, and one or more processors configured to perform operations. The operations include receiving data from the lidar sensor. The operations include determining movement data based on the data received from the lidar sensor. The operations include receiving data from the inertial measurement unit. The operations include determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit. The operations include applying the one or more calibration factors to a measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: an inertial measurement unit; a lidar sensor; and one or more processors configured to perform operations comprising: receive data from the lidar sensor; determine movement data based on the data received from the lidar sensor; receive data from the inertial measurement unit; determine, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit; and apply the one or more calibration factors to a measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the movement data comprises a first translational acceleration measurement; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first translational acceleration measurement, a bias for a second translational acceleration measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the movement data comprises a first rotational rate measurement of the lidar sensor; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first rotational rate measurement, a scale factor for a second rotational rate measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the lidar sensor and inertial measurement units are associated with a vehicle, and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises: determining, based on the movement data, that the vehicle is stationary; and determining, based on data received from the inertial measurement unit, a translational bias detected by the inertial measurement unit.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit are included in a shared housing of a movement measurement unit; and the inertial measurement unit is coupled with the lidar sensor such that the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit rotate together.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the inertial measurement unit is mounted on top of the lidar sensor; and rotation of the inertial measurement unit and lidar sensor is driven by a shared motor.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein: the lidar sensor comprises an optical encoder that measures a rotational rate of the lidar sensor; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises determining a scale factor between a first rotational rate received from the optical encoder of the lidar sensor and a second rotational rate received from the inertial measurement unit.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the inertial measurement unit and lidar sensor share a clock signal.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processors are further configured to perform operations comprising: determine, based on the movement data, that the lidar sensor is stationary; cause the inertial measurement unit to become coupled with the lidar sensor such that the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit rotate together; and determine, based on movement data and data received from the inertial measurement unit, a scale factor for a rotational rate received from the inertial measurement unit.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processors are further configured to perform operations comprising: cause the inertial measurement unit to become decoupled from the lidar sensor, such that the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit no longer rotate together.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein applying the one or more calibration factors to the measurement received from the inertial measurement unit comprises: identifying the measurement from data received from the inertial measurement unit; calculating a calibrated measurement based on the one or more calibration factors and the measurement; and substituting the calibrated measurement for future uses of the measurement.
12. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receive data from a lidar sensor; determine movement data based on the data received from the lidar sensor; receive data from an inertial measurement unit; determine, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit; and apply the one or more calibration factors to a measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
13. The media of claim 12, wherein: the movement data comprises a first translational acceleration measurement; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first translational acceleration measurement, a bias for a second translational acceleration measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
14. The media of claim 12, wherein: the movement data comprises a first rotational rate measurement of the lidar sensor; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first rotational rate measurement, a scale factor for a second rotational rate measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
15. The media of claim 12, wherein: the lidar sensor and inertial measurement units are associated with a vehicle, and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises: determining, based on the movement data, that the vehicle is stationary; and determining, based on data received from the inertial measurement unit, a translational bias detected by the inertial measurement unit.
16. The media of claim 12, wherein: the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit are included in a shared housing of a movement measurement unit; and the inertial measurement unit is coupled with the lidar sensor such that the lidar sensor and inertial measurement unit rotate together.
17. A method comprising, by a computing system, comprising: receiving data from a lidar sensor; determining movement data based on the data received from the lidar sensor; receiving data from an inertial measurement unit; determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit; and applying the one or more calibration factors to a measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the movement data comprises a first translational acceleration measurement; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first translational acceleration measurement, a bias for a second translational acceleration measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein: the movement data comprises a first rotational rate measurement of the lidar sensor; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises calculating, based on the first rotational rate measurement, a scale factor for a second rotational rate measurement received from the inertial measurement unit.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein: the lidar sensor and inertial measurement units are associated with a vehicle; and determining, based on the movement data and the data received from the inertial measurement unit, one or more calibration factors for the inertial measurement unit comprises: determining, based on the movement data, that the vehicle is stationary; and determining, based on data received from the inertial measurement unit, a translational bias detected by the inertial measurement unit.
</claims>
</document>
