<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/02,A61B8/06,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARINELLI, LUCA
VENUGOPAL, PREM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71837985
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCALIZATION OF BLEEDING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to localization of bleeds (e.g., arterial bleed events) using a limited or minimal number of ultrasound scans. In one implementation, Doppler ultrasound is used to measure blood flow velocities in a one-dimensional (1D) arterial tree model to determine the location and size of bleed. In a second implementation, ultrasound measured waveforms for blood flow velocity and vessel cross-sectional area are de-composed. The features in the de-composed waveforms are then used to locate the bleed using a trained algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for localizing a vascular bleed, comprising the acts of: measuring blood flow velocities at one or more locations on a body of a patient; fitting the blood flow velocities to vascular tree model; and based upon the fit of the blood flow velocities to the vascular tree model, determining one or both of a location or a size of a bleed event within the patient.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring blood flow velocities comprises acquiring Doppler ultrasound data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the blood flow velocities are represented as one or more blood flow velocity waveforms.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the vascular tree model comprises a one-dimensional arterial tree model.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: constructing the vascular tree model, wherein the vascular tree model is constructed by performing acts comprising: acquiring vessel cross-sectional areas for the one or more locations; and constructing the vascular tree model based on the acquired vessel cross-sectional areas.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein acquiring vessel cross sectional areas is performed by one or both of: measuring vessel cross-sectional areas at the one or more locations using ultrasound; or deriving the vessel cross-sectional areas based on average or expected human measurements for the vasculature at the one or more locations.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring one or both of blood pressure or heart rate of the patient; wherein one or both of the location or the size of the bleed event within the patient are determined based upon the blood pressure or heart rate in addition to the blood flow velocities.
8. A method for localizing a vascular bleed, comprising the acts of: generating one or more waveforms using ultrasound imaging, wherein the one or more waveforms describe one or both of vascular vessel cross-sectional area at one or more locations or blood flow velocity at the one or more locations; and inputting the one or more waveforms or components or features derived from the one or more waveforms to a trained machine learning algorithm, wherein an output of the trained machine learning algorithm is one or both of a location or a size of a bleed event within a patient.
9. The method of claim 8, where pulse wave velocity is also acquired at the one or more locations.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: decomposing the one or more waveforms into forward components and backward components.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: extracting one or more features from the forward components and backward components.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: training a machine learning algorithm wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained by performing acts comprising: accessing a plurality of bleed waveforms from a reference set of bleed waveforms, wherein each bleed waveform corresponds to a bleed event having a bleed size and a bleed location training the machine learning algorithm using the one or more bleed waveforms or components or features derived from the one or more bleed waveforms and the bleed size and bleed location corresponding to each bleed event to generate a trained machine learning algorithm
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: decomposing the one or more bleed waveforms into forward components and backward components of the respective bleed waveforms.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: extracting one or more features from the forward components and backward components of the respective bleed waveforms.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the reference set of bleed algorithms is generated using one or both of clinical or animal bleed data or simulations performed using a vascular tree model.
16. A system for localizing bleed events, comprising: an ultrasound scanner configured to generate ultrasound data at one or more locations of a body of a patient; a memory component configured to store one or more processor-executable routines; and a processing component configured to receive or access the ultrasound data and to execute the one or more processor-executable routines, wherein the one or more routines, when executed by the processing component, cause the processing component to perform acts comprising: measuring at least blood flow velocities at one or more locations on a body of a patient; processing at least the blood flow velocities or one or more components or features derived from at least the blood flow velocities to determine one or both of a location or a size of a bleed event within the patient.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein processing at least the blood flow velocities or one or more components or features derived from at least the blood flow velocities comprises: fitting the blood flow velocities to a vascular tree model and, based upon the fit of the blood flow velocities to the vascular tree model, determining one or both of the location or the size of the bleed event.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein processing at least the blood flow velocities or one or more components or features derived from at least the blood flow velocities comprises: inputting one or more waveforms corresponding to the blood flow velocities or components or features derived from the one or more waveforms to a trained machine learning algorithm, wherein an output of the trained machine learning algorithm is one or both of the location or the size of the bleed event.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein processing at least the blood flow velocities or one or more components or features derived from at least the blood flow velocities comprises also processing one or more additional waveforms corresponding to the vascular vessel cross-sectional area or components or features derived from the one or more additional waveforms using the trained machine learning algorithm.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more components comprise forward components and backward components of a waveform and the features comprise one or more features extracted from one or both of the forward components and the backward components.
</claims>
</document>
