<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2005-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/22,G16H40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKBAY, KUNTER, SEREF
DULGEROGLU, ONUR ILKIN
JOHNSON, CHRISTOPHER D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
40589113
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD TO VIEW SCHEDULE INTERDEPENDENCIES AND PROVIDE PROACTIVE CLINICAL PROCESS DECISION SUPPORT IN DAY VIEW FORM
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for use in managing and preparing for scheduled procedures that are characterized as being interdependent and variable. The disclosed method enables schedule risk management and provides a look-ahead capability along with process diagnostics to isolate specific assets and tasks that can be managed to reduce schedule risk. The method facilitates review of upcoming tasks by the process stakeholders for education as to where the schedule risks reside and in an emulation mode for review and improved scheduling going forward. Clinical workflow is integrated such that process stakeholders and assets are directed in such a way as to keep on, reduce delay risk or recover the schedule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: memory including instructions; communication circuitry to communicate with one or more healthcare systems; and at least one processor to execute the instructions to at least: load a schedule of tasks and associated asset availability from the one or more healthcare systems; process, using at least one of a simulation or an artificial intelligence model, the schedule of tasks using the associated asset availability and a distribution of probabilities associated with durations of the tasks in the schedule of tasks; generate a user interface including views from the simulation of: a) the schedule of tasks, b) a difference between the schedule of tasks and current process operations, and c) a probabilistic prediction of a future schedule; and output, in response to a selection of at least one of a), b), or c), instructions to the one or more healthcare systems for an updated schedule of tasks based on the selected at least one of a), b), or c).
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface is to facilitate monitoring of activity and tracking the schedule of tasks for a time period.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface is to visualize a variation of schedule task times, visualize a scheduling opportunity and associated constraint, and view schedule risk information with respect to the schedule of tasks.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence model includes at least one of a case-based reasoning model, a rule-based model, a fuzzy logic model, an example-based evidentiary reasoning model, an artificial neural network model, a regressive model, or a heuristic model.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface is to display the distribution of probabilities and a cumulative probability for a block of time over time.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the user interface is to display an analytical roadmap of tasks, assets, and process interdependencies.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the user interface is to display a measure of availability, calculation of a critical path, and use of exogenous variation, probabilistic duration, availability and reliability to calculate at least one of a) a probability of events beginning and ending at scheduled times, or b) a start time and a completion time to achieve a probability estimate.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the user interface is to display, as determined by the at least one processor, asset interdependencies and a dependency state design associated with the critical path calculation.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the user interface is to display, as determined by the at least one processor, a base schedule, the base schedule determined based on a variation in asset reliability, staff attendance, and a probability duration estimate.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is to simulate the base schedule with a schedule risk, the at least one processor to apply decision support with respect to the base schedule based on the schedule risk.
11. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to at least: load a schedule of tasks and associated asset availability from one or more healthcare systems; process, using at least one of a simulation or an artificial intelligence model, the schedule of tasks using the associated asset availability and a distribution of probabilities associated with durations of the tasks in the schedule of tasks; generate a user interface including views from the simulation of: a) the schedule of tasks, b) a difference between the schedule of tasks and current process operations, and c) a probabilistic prediction of a future schedule; and output, in response to a selection of at least one of a), b), or c), instructions to the one or more healthcare systems for an updated schedule of tasks based on the selected at least one of a), b), or c).
12. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to monitor activity and track the schedule of tasks for a time period.
13. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to visualize a variation of schedule task times, visualize a scheduling opportunity and associated constraint, and view schedule risk information with respect to the schedule of tasks.
14. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the artificial intelligence model includes at least one of a case-based reasoning model, a rule-based model, a fuzzy logic model, an example-based evidentiary reasoning model, an artificial neural network model, a regressive model, or a heuristic model.
15. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to display the distribution of probabilities and a cumulative probability for a block of time over time.
16. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to display an analytical roadmap of tasks, assets, and process interdependencies.
17. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to display a measure of availability, calculation of a critical path, and use of exogenous variation, probabilistic duration, availability and reliability to calculate at least one of a) a probability of events beginning and ending at scheduled times, or b) a start time and a completion time to achieve a probability estimate.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to display, as determined by the at least one processor, asset interdependencies and a dependency state design associated with the critical path calculation.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the user interface to display, as determined by the at least one processor, a base schedule, the base schedule determined based on a variation in asset reliability, staff attendance, and a probability duration estimate.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to: simulate the base schedule with a schedule risk; and apply decision support with respect to the base schedule based on the schedule risk.
</claims>
</document>
