<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06T19/00,G06T9/00,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, DEOKHO
KWON, TAEHYUK
LEE, GUNILL
LEE, WONWOO
JEONG, JIWON
YIM, SUNGHOON
YOO, BYEONGWOOK
LEE, JAEWOONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097963
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus obtains a panoramic image by overlapping partial areas of image frames and identifies an object from the panoramic image or an area of a predetermined shape of maximum size within the panoramic image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus, comprising: a memory; and a processor configured to: obtain a panoramic image by overlapping a partial area of a first image frame stored in the memory with a partial area of at least one second image frame stored in the memory based on pixel information of the first frame and pixel information of the at least one second image frame, identify an area of a predetermined shape of maximum size within the panoramic image, and identify an object from an entire area of the panoramic image or the area in the predetermined shape.
2. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the panoramic image by overlapping an area having a minimum difference between pixel values of adjacent image frames among the first image frame and the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second image frame.
3. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain a motion value between adjacent image frames among the first image frame and the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second image frame, and obtain the panoramic image by overlapping the partial area of the first image frame with the partial area of the at least one second image frame based on the motion value.
4. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to: convert the motion value based on a difference between pixel values in the adjacent image frames and a motion value between the adjacent image frames, and obtain the panoramic image by overlapping the partial area of the first image frame with the partial area of the at least one second image frame based on the converted motion value.
5. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform image processing comprising at least one of rotation, position movement, or resizing with respect to each of the first image frame and the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second image frame, and obtain the panoramic image by overlapping a partial area of a frame in which the image processing is performed.
6. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 5, further comprising: a display, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the display to display the first image frame, and based on the object identified from the panoramic image, control the display to display the object including at least one of graphical user interface (GUI), character, image, video, or 3D model on an area in which the object is displayed in the first frame in accordance with information on a location at which the object is identified and information on the image processing.
7. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the at least one second image frame is an image frame captured before the first image frame, and wherein the processor is further configured to: based on the panoramic image and pixel information on a third image frame captured after the first image frame, update the panoramic image by overlapping a partial area of the panoramic image with a partial area of the third image frame, identify an area of a predetermined shape of maximum size within the updated panoramic image, and re-identify an object from the updated panoramic image or the area in the predetermined shape within the updated panoramic image.
8. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the third image frame is an image frame captured after the first image frame, and wherein the processor is further configured to, based on a ratio between the first image frame with respect to the third image frame and an overlapping area of the third image frame being smaller than a predetermined ratio, re-identify the object from the updated panoramic image, or the area in the predetermined shape within the updated panoramic image.
9. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: based on a plurality of objects being identified in the panoramic image, assign a weighted value to a plurality of respective areas based on at least one of a number of overlapping image frames of a plurality of respective areas of the panoramic image or a capturing time of an image frame in the plurality of respective areas, and identify at least one of the plurality of objects based on a weighted value of the plurality of respective areas.
10. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a camera comprising circuitry, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the plurality of image frames by performing continuous capturing through the camera.
11. A method for controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: based on pixel information of a first image frame and pixel information of at least one second image frame among a plurality of frames, obtaining a panoramic image by overlapping a partial area of the first image frame with a partial area of the at least one second image frame; identifying an area of a predetermined shape of maximum size within the panoramic image; and identifying an object from an entire area of the panoramic image or the area in the predetermined shape.
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining the panoramic image by overlapping an area having a minimum difference between pixel values of adjacent image frames among the first image frame and the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second frame.
13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining a motion value between adjacent image frames among the first image frame and the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second frame, and obtaining the panoramic image by overlapping the partial area of the first image frame with the partial area of the at least one second image frame based on the motion value.
14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the obtaining comprises converting the motion value based on a difference between pixel values in the adjacent image frames and a motion value between the adjacent image frames, and based on the converted motion value, obtaining the panoramic image by overlapping the partial area of the first image frame with the partial area of the at least one second image frame.
15. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the obtaining comprises performing image processing comprising at least one of rotation, positon movement, or resizing with respect to each of the first image frame or the at least one second image frame based on the pixel information of the first image frame and the pixel information of the at least one second image frame, and obtaining the panoramic image by overlapping a partial area of a fame in which the image processing is performed.
16. The method as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: displaying the first frame; and based on the object identified from the panoramic image, displaying the object including at least one of graphical use interface (GUI), character, image, video, or 3D model on an area in which the object is displayed in the first frame based on information on a location at which the object is identified from the panoramic image and information on the image processing.
17. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the at least one second image frame is an image frame captured before the first image frame, and wherein the method further comprises: based on the panoramic image and pixel information on a third image frame captured after the first image frame, updating the panoramic image by overlapping a partial image of the panoramic image with a partial area of the third image frame; identifying an area of a predetermined shape of maximum size within the updated panoramic image; and re-identifying an object from an entire area of the updated panoramic image or the area in the predetermined shape within the updated panoramic image.
18. The method as claimed in claim 17, wherein the third image frame is an image frame captured after the first image frame, and wherein the re-identifying of the object comprises, based on a ratio between the first image frame with respect to the third image frame and an overlapping area of the third image frame being smaller than a predetermined ratio, re-identifying the object from the updated panoramic image, or the area in the predetermined shape within the updated panoramic image.
19. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the identifying of the object comprises: based on a plurality of objects being identified in the panoramic image, assigning a weighted value to a plurality of respective areas based on at least one of a number of overlapping image frames of a plurality of respective areas of the panoramic image or a capturing time of an image frame in the plurality of respective areas; and identifying at least one of the plurality of objects based on a weighted value of the plurality of respective areas.
20. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising: obtaining the plurality of frames by performing continuous capturing through a camera provided in the electronic apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
