<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/22,H01L21/28,H01L29/417,H01L29/51,H01L29/66,H01L29/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AVCI, UYGAR
GOSAVI, TANAY
PENUMATCHA, ASHISH VERMA
YOUNG, IAN, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123214
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FERROELECTRIC TRANSISTORS TO STORE MULTIPLE STATES OF RESISTANCES FOR MEMORY CELLS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments herein describe techniques for a semiconductor device including a gate stack with a ferroelectric-oxide layer above a channel layer and in contact with the channel layer, and a top electrode above the ferroelectric-oxide layer. The ferroelectric-oxide layer includes a domain wall between an area under a nucleation point of the top electrode and above a separation line of the channel layer between an ON state portion and an OFF state portion of the channel layer. A resistance between a source electrode and a drain electrode is modulated in a range between a first resistance value and a second resistance value, dependent on a position of the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer, a position of the ON state portion of the channel layer, and a position of the OFF state portion of the channel layer. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device, comprising: a channel layer above a bottom electrode, including a first portion and a second portion of the channel layer, wherein the first portion is in an ON state, the second portion is in an OFF state, the first portion is separated from the second portion by a separation line in a horizontal direction from a source electrode of a ferroelectric transistor to a drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor; a gate stack above the channel layer, wherein the gate stack includes: a ferroelectric-oxide layer above the channel layer and in contact with the channel layer, and a top electrode above the ferroelectric-oxide layer, wherein the top electrode includes a nucleation point, the ferroelectric-oxide layer includes a domain wall between an area under the nucleation point of the top electrode and above the separation line of the channel layer, and over the first portion of the channel layer; and wherein a resistance between the source electrode and the drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor is modulated in a range between a first resistance value and a second resistance value, dependent on a position of the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer of the gate stack, a position of the first portion of the channel layer, and a position of the second portion of the channel layer.
2. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the first resistance value is a resistance value between the source electrode and the drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor when the channel layer is entirely in the OFF state, the first portion of the channel layer is empty; and the second resistance value is a resistance value between the source electrode and the drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor when the channel layer is entirely in the ON state, the second portion of the channel layer is empty.
3. The semiconductor device of claim 2, wherein the first resistance value is in a range of about 100 ohms/um to about 1000 ohms/um, and the second resistance value is in a range of about 109 ohms/um to about 10*109 ohms/um.
4. The semiconductor device of claim 2, wherein the channel layer includes multiple fins, and the first portion or the second portion of the channel layer includes one or more fins.
5. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the ferroelectric-oxide layer includes Pb, Zr, Ti, Ba, Sr, or Hf
6. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the gate stack further includes a dielectric oxide layer above the ferroelectric-oxide layer, and below the top electrode.
7. The semiconductor device of claim 6, wherein the dielectric oxide layer includes SiO2, Al2O3, or HfO2.
8. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the bottom electrode or the top electrode includes SrRuO3, Pt, W, Ru, Co, TiN ,Ta , TaN, Cu, Cr, Mo, Pd.
9. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the nucleation point is located at one end of the top electrode of the gate stack, and a distance of the nucleation point to an edge of the top electrode is about less than or equal to 5% of a length of the top electrode.
10. The semiconductor device of claim 1, further comprising: the bottom electrode below the channel layer; a via above and in contact with the top electrode at the nucleation point of the top electrode; and a gate contact above and in contact with the via.
11. The semiconductor device of claim 10, wherein the via has a tip, and a radius of the tip is in a range of about 100 nm to 1 μm.
12. The semiconductor device of claim 10, wherein the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer is generated by a programming voltage pulse applied to the gate contact coupled to the top electrode through the via, while the source electrode, the drain electrode, and the bottom electrode are grounded.
13. The semiconductor device of claim 12, wherein the programming voltage pulse has a voltage value about 4 voltage, 6 voltage, or 8 voltage.
14. The semiconductor device of claim 12, wherein the programming voltage pulse has a duration from about 10 μs to about 100 ms.
15. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the source electrode or the drain electrode includes Ti, W, molybdenum (Mo), gold (Au), platinum (Pt), aluminum (Al), nickel (Ni), copper (Cu), chromium (Cr), hafnium (Hf), indium (In), or an alloy of Ti, W, Mo, Au, Pt, Al, Ni, Cu, Cr, TiAlN, HfAlN, or InAlO.
16. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the bottom electrode is a substrate, and the substrate includes a silicon substrate, a glass substrate, a metal substrate, a substrate including and SiO2, or a plastic substrate.
17. The semiconductor device of claim 1, wherein the source electrode, the drain electrode, and the gate stack are within an interconnect structure above a substrate.
18. A method for forming a semiconductor device, the method comprising: forming a bottom electrode; forming a channel layer above the bottom electrode; forming a gate stack above the channel layer, wherein the gate stack includes a ferroelectric-oxide layer above the channel layer and in contact with the channel layer, and a top electrode above the ferroelectric-oxide layer; forming a via above and in contact with the top electrode at a nucleation point of the top electrode; forming a gate contact above and in contact with the via; and forming a source electrode and a drain electrode in contact with the channel layer; wherein a domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer is to be generated by a programming voltage pulse applied to the gate contact coupled to the top electrode through the via, while the source electrode, the drain electrode, and the bottom electrode are grounded; the channel layer includes a first portion under the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer to be in an ON state, and a second portion not overlapped with the domain wall to be in an OFF state, the first portion is separated from the second portion by a separation line in a horizontal direction from the source electrode to the drain electrode.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the forming the gate stack above the channel layer includes: forming the ferroelectric-oxide layer above the channel layer and in contact with the channel layer; and forming the top electrode above the ferroelectric-oxide layer.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the forming the gate stack above the channel layer further includes: forming a dielectric oxide layer above the ferroelectric-oxide layer, and below the top electrode.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein: a resistance between the source electrode and the drain electrode is modulated in a range between a first resistance value and a second resistance value, dependent on a position of the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer of the gate stack, a position of the first portion of the channel layer, and a position of the second portion of the channel layer; the first resistance value is a resistance value between the source electrode and the drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor when the channel layer is entirely in the OFF state, the first portion of the channel layer is empty; and the second resistance value is a resistance value between the source electrode and the drain electrode of the ferroelectric transistor when the channel layer is entirely in the ON state, the second portion of the channel layer is empty.
22. The method of claim 18, wherein the channel layer includes multiple fins, and the first portion or the second portion of the channel layer includes one or more fins; the ferroelectric-oxide layer includes Pb, Zr, Ti, Ba, Sr, or Hf; the nucleation point is located at one end of the top electrode of the gate stack, and a distance of the nucleation point to an edge of the top electrode is about less than or equal to 5% of a length of the top electrode; and the via has a tip, and a radius of the tip is in a range of about 100 nm to 1 μm.
23. A computing device, comprising: a circuit board; and a memory device coupled to the circuit board and including a memory array, wherein the memory array includes a plurality of memory cells, a memory cell of the plurality of memory cells includes a ferroelectric transistor, and the ferroelectric transistor includes: a bottom electrode; a channel layer above a bottom electrode, including a first portion and a second portion of the channel layer, wherein the first portion is in an ON state, the second portion is in an OFF state, the first portion is separated from the second portion by a separation line in a horizontal direction from a source electrode to a drain electrode; a gate stack above the channel layer, wherein the gate stack includes a ferroelectric-oxide layer above the channel layer and in contact with the channel layer, and a top electrode above the ferroelectric-oxide layer; a via above and in contact with the top electrode at a nucleation point of the top electrode, wherein the ferroelectric-oxide layer includes a domain wall between an area under the nucleation point of the top electrode and above the separation line of the channel layer, and over the first portion of the channel layer; and a gate contact above and in contact with the via; wherein a resistance between the source electrode and the drain electrode is modulated in a range between a first resistance value and a second resistance value, dependent on a position of the domain wall within the ferroelectric-oxide layer of the gate stack, a position of the first portion of the channel layer, and a position of the second portion of the channel layer.
24. The computing device of claim 23, wherein the channel layer includes multiple fins, and the first portion or the second portion of the channel layer includes one or more fins; the ferroelectric-oxide layer includes Pb, Zr, Ti, Ba, Sr, or Hf; the nucleation point is located at one end of the top electrode of the gate stack, and a distance of the nucleation point to an edge of the top electrode is about less than or equal to 5% of a length of the top electrode; and the via has a tip, and a radius of the tip is in a range of about 100 nm to 1 μm.
25. The computing device of claim 23, wherein the computing device is a device selected from the group consisting of a wearable device or a mobile computing device, the wearable device or the mobile computing device including one or more of an antenna, a touchscreen controller, a display, a battery, a processor, an audio codec, a video codec, a power amplifier, a global positioning system (GPS) device, a compass, a Geiger counter, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a speaker, and a camera coupled with the memory device.
</claims>
</document>
