<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAKULEV, VIOLETA
KOTECHA, LALIT R.
POTLURI, RAVI
PATIL, SUDHAKAR REDDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102781
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF CLOSED LOOP ANALYTICS FOR NETWORK AUTOMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods implement closed loop analytics feedback for a transport network. A network device, such as a Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF), receives, from a commissioning network function, an analytic information request for analytic event information and sends, to the commissioning network function, an analytic report that is responsive to the analytic information request wherein the analytic report includes a unique analytic report identifier. The network device receives, from the commissioning network function, a feedback event message that includes the analytic report identifier and a change description for a network parameter change influenced by the analytic report.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a network device and from a commissioning network function, an analytic information request for analytic event information; sending, by the network device and to the commissioning network function, an analytic report that is responsive to the analytic information request wherein the analytic report includes a unique analytic report identifier; and receiving, by the network device and from the commissioning network function, a feedback event message, wherein the feedback event message includes the analytic report identifier and a change description for a network parameter change based on the analytic report.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning, by the network device, the unique analytic report identifier to the analytic report.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network device and to the commissioning network function, a subscription request for a feedback event that triggers the feedback event message.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the subscription request includes a dedicated event identifier for notifying of a change based on the analytic report.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback event message further includes a timestamp related to the network parameter change.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback event message further includes an influence score for the analytic report in relation to the network parameter change.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting, based on the analytic information request, network data related to the analytic information request; and applying the collected network data to an analytics model for the requested analytic event information.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the commissioning network function includes a Policy Control Function (PCF) device, a Session Management Function (SMF) device, or a Network Slice Selection Function (NSSF) device.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, by the network device, the change information to generate an updated analytics model related to the analytic report; and applying the updated analytics model to another analytics report.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the network device includes a Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) device in a core network.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from another network function, an event report based on the network parameter change influenced by the analytic report, wherein the event report includes the analytic report identifier.
12. A network device, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: receive, from a commissioning network function, an analytic information request for analytic event information; send, to the commissioning network function, an analytic report that is responsive to the analytic information request wherein the analytic report includes a unique analytic report identifier; and receive, from the commissioning network function, a feedback event message, wherein the feedback event message includes the analytic report identifier and a change description for a network parameter change influenced by the analytic report.
13. The network device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: assign the unique analytic report identifier to the analytic report.
14. The network device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: send, to the commissioning network function, a subscription request for a feedback event that triggers the feedback event message.
15. The network device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: send, to the commissioning network function, a request for a feedback event that triggers the feedback event message, wherein the request includes a dedicated event identifier for notifying of a change based on the analytic report.
16. The network device of claim 12, wherein the feedback event message further includes: a timestamp related to the network parameter change, and an influence score for the analytic report in relation to the network parameter change.
17. The network device of claim 12, wherein the network device includes a Network Data Analytics Function (NWDAF) device.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing instructions executable by at least one processor, the computer-readable medium comprising one or more instructions to: receive, from a commissioning network function, an analytic information request for analytic event information; send, to the commissioning network function, an analytic report that is responsive to the analytic information request wherein the analytic report includes a unique analytic report identifier; and receive, from the commissioning network function, a feedback event message, wherein the feedback event message includes the analytic report identifier and a change description for a network parameter change influenced by the analytic report.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising one or more instructions to: collect, based on the analytic information request, network data related to the analytic information request; and apply the collected network data to an analytics model for the requested analytic event information; and generate, based on the analytics model, the analytic report.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, further comprising one or more instructions to: apply the change information to generate an updated analytics model related to the analytic report; and apply the updated analytics model to generate another analytics report.
</claims>
</document>
