<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, XIAOSU
JIN, ZHOU
KUAN, CHI-YI
ZHAO, RUI
Li, Wenqian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550023
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNEQUAL PROBABILITY SAMPLING BASED ON A LIKELIHOOD MODEL SCORE TO EVALUATE PREVALENCE OF INAPPROPRIATE ENTITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for performing unequal sampling are provided. In one technique, multiple scores generated by a prediction model are identified, each score corresponding to a different entity of multiple entities. Multiple buckets are determined, each bucket corresponding to a different range of scores. Each entity is assigned to a bucket based on the score corresponding to the entity. A probability distribution function is generated based on the scores and a number of scores belonging to each bucket. For each entity, a probability of sampling the entity is determined based on the probability distribution function and a score corresponding to the entity. A subset of the entities are sampled based on the probability determined for each entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying a plurality of scores generated by a prediction model, each score corresponding to a different entity of a plurality of entities; determining a plurality of buckets, each bucket corresponding to a different range of scores; for each entity of the plurality of entities, assigning, based on the score corresponding to said each entity, said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets; generating a probability distribution function based on the plurality of scores and a number of scores belonging to each bucket of the plurality of buckets; for each entity of the plurality of entities, determining, based on the probability distribution function and a score corresponding to said each entity, a probability of sampling said each entity; sampling a subset of the plurality of entities based on the probability determined for each entity of the plurality of entities; wherein the method is performed by one or more computing devices.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with an activity measure; assigning said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets is further based on the activity measure associated with said each entity.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: performing a log transformation of the activity measure, wherein determining the probability of sampling the entity is also based on the log transformation of the activity measure associated with the entity.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the subset of the plurality of entities corresponds to a set of scores, the method further comprising: receiving, from one or more human reviewers, feedback indicating which entities in the subset of the plurality of entities are associated with a particular classification; based on the feedback, generating an estimate of the number of the plurality of entities that are associated with the particular classification.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: generating the estimate comprises: for each entity in the subset of the plurality of entities: computing a ratio of (1) a label for said each entity provided by one of the one or more human reviewers to (2) the probability that was determined for said each entity based on the probability distribution function and the score corresponding to said each entity; adding the ratio to a set of ratios; computing a sum of the ratios in the set of ratios; wherein estimate is based on the sum and a number of entities in the subset of the plurality of entities.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein: each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with an activity measure; assigning said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets is further based on the activity measure associated with said each entity, the method further comprising, generating an estimate of activity of entities that are estimated to be associated with the particular classification.
6. hod of claim 6, wherein: generating the estimate comprises: for each entity in the subset of the plurality of entities: computing a product of (1) a label for said each entity provided by one of the one or more human reviewers and (2) the activity measure associated with said each entity; computing a ratio of the product to the probability that was determined for said each entity based on the probability distribution function and the score corresponding to said each entity; adding the ratio to a set of ratios; computing a sum of the ratios in the set of ratios; wherein estimate is based on the sum and a number of entities in the subset of the plurality of entities.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of scores are below a particular threshold that is associated with the prediction model, wherein each bucket of the plurality of buckets is below the particular threshold.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is an account and each score of the plurality of scores is associated with a likelihood that the corresponding entity is a fraudulent entity.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is a content item and each score of the plurality of scores is associated with a likelihood that the corresponding entity is a fraudulent entity, wherein the content item is one of an online article, an online posting, or a job posting.
11. One or more storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: identifying a plurality of scores generated by a prediction model, each score corresponding to a different entity of a plurality of entities; determining a plurality of buckets, each bucket corresponding to a different range of scores; for each entity of the plurality of entities, assigning, based on the score corresponding to said each entity, said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets; generating a probability distribution function based on the plurality of scores and a number of scores belonging to each bucket of the plurality of buckets; for each entity of the plurality of entities, determining, based on the probability distribution function and a score corresponding to said each entity, a probability of sampling said each entity; sampling a subset of the plurality of entities based on the probability determined for each entity of the plurality of entities.
12. The one or more storage media of claim 11, wherein: each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with an activity measure; assigning said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets is further based on the activity measure associated with said each entity.
13. The one or more storage media of claim 12, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: performing a log transformation of the activity measure; wherein determining the probability of sampling the entity is also based on the log transformation of the activity measure associated with the entity.
14. The one or more storage media of claim 11, wherein the subset of the plurality of entities corresponds to a set of scores, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause: receiving, from one or more human reviewers, feedback indicating which entities in the subset of the plurality of entities are associated with a particular classification; based on the feedback, generating an estimate of the number of the plurality of entities that are associated with the particular classification.
15. The one or more storage media of claim 14, wherein: generating the estimate comprises: for each entity in the subset of the plurality of entities: computing a ratio of (1) a label for said each entity provided by one of the one or more human reviewers to (2) the probability that was determined for said each entity based on the probability distribution function and the score corresponding to said each entity; adding the ratio to a set of ratios; computing a sum of the ratios in the set of ratios; wherein estimate is based on the sum and a number of entities in the subset of the plurality of entities.
16. The one or more storage media of claim 14, wherein: each entity of the plurality of entities is associated with an activity measure; assigning said each entity to one bucket of the plurality of buckets is further based on the activity measure associated with said each entity; the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause, generating an estimate of activity of entities that are estimated to be associated with the particular classification.
17. The one or more storage media of claim 16, wherein: generating the estimate comprises: for each entity in the subset of the plurality of entities: computing a product of (1) a label for said each entity provided by one of the one or more human reviewers and (2) the activity measure associated with said each entity; computing a ratio of the product to the probability that was determined for said each entity based on the probability distribution function and the score corresponding to said each entity; adding the ratio to a set of ratios; computing a sum of the ratios in the set of ratios; wherein estimate is based on the sum and a number of entities in the subset of the plurality of entities.
18. The one or more storage media of claim 11, wherein the plurality of scores are below a particular threshold that is associated with the prediction model, wherein each bucket of the plurality of buckets is below the particular threshold.
19. The one or more storage media of claim 11, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is an account and each score of the plurality of scores is associated with a likelihood that the corresponding entity is a fraudulent entity.
20. The one or more storage media of claim 11, wherein each entity of the plurality of entities is a content item and each score of the plurality of scores is associated with a likelihood that the corresponding entity is a fraudulent entity, wherein the content item is one of an online article, an online posting, or a job posting.
</claims>
</document>
