<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/055,G01R33/48,G01R33/56,G01R33/561
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, JINGHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PARALLEL MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
A method for reconstructing a full k-space dataset using parallel magnetic resonance (MR) imaging technique is provided. The method includes acquiring, by a plurality of receiver coils, a set of first under-sampled k-space data, receiving a set of second partial or fully-sampled k-space data, respectively performing k-space interpolation of the set of the first under-sampled k-space data respectively acquired by each of the plurality of receiver coils, recovering respectively missing k-space lines of each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data using corresponding second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and corresponding first under-sampled k-space data, forming a plurality of full k-space datasets by respectively combining each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data and corresponding recovered missing k-space lines for each of the plurality of receiver coils, obtaining a plurality of fully-sampled images from the plurality of full k-space datasets, and combining images into a final image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for reconstructing a full k-space dataset using parallel magnetic resonance (MR) imaging technique, the method comprising: acquiring, by a plurality of receiver coils, a set of first under-sampled k-space data related to a target area of an object respectively corresponding to the plurality of receiver coils; receiving a set of second partial or fully-sampled k-space data related to the target area respectively corresponding to the set of first under-sampled k-space data; respectively performing k-space interpolation of the set of the first under-sampled k-space data respectively acquired by each of the plurality of receiver coils; recovering respectively missing k-space lines of each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data using corresponding second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and corresponding first under-sampled k-space data; forming a plurality of full k-space datasets related to the target area by respectively combining each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data and corresponding recovered missing k-space lines for each of the plurality of receiver coils; obtaining a plurality of fully-sampled images from the plurality of full k-space datasets corresponding to the plurality of receiver coils; and combining images of each individual coils into a final image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data of the target area is obtained by: oversampling a part of missing k-space data of the first under-sampled k-space data acquired by corresponding receiver coil or coils to generate an artifact-free k-space data as a reference; acquiring a fully sampled MRI k-space data acquired by corresponding receiver coil or coils; or implementing Fourier transform of an artifact-free image in image domain.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the fully sampled MRI k-space data is acquired using imaging parameters that are substantially the same as imaging parameters used for acquiring the first under-sampled k-space data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the k-space interpolation is performed by: a k-space scaling method; or a super-resolution k-space method; or an iterative k-space reconstruction method.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein recovering respectively the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data using the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and corresponding first under-sampled k-space data further comprises: recovering the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on a transformation matrix defining transformation between the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and the first under-sampled k-space data; or recovering the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on relational information.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein recovering the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on the transformation matrix comprises: interpolating the second partial or fully sampled k-space data such that a resolution of the interpolated second partial or fully sampled k-space matches with a resolution of the first under-sampled k-space data acquired by each of the plurality of receiver coils respectively; estimating the transformation matrix based on the first under-sampled k-space data and the interpolated second partial or fully-sampled k-space data respectively; and determining the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on the estimated transformation matrix and the interpolated second partial or fully-sampled k-space data corresponding to the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data respectively.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the transformation matrix represents variations of translation, rotation and/or shear data of k-space data.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein recovering the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on relational information comprises: interpolating the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data such that a resolution of the interpolated second partial or fully sampled k-space data matches with a resolution of the first under-sampled k-space data acquired by the receiver coil; estimating relational information between a k-space line of the interpolated second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and another k-space line adjacent to the k-space line; and synthesizing the missing k-space lines of the first under-sampled k-space data based on the k-space lines of the acquired first under-sampled k-space data adjacent to the missing k-space lines and the relational information.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein interpolating the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data comprises: interpolating a phase of the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data based on a linear relationship of the phase; and interpolating a magnitude of the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data based on a non-linear relationship of the magnitude.
10. The method of claim 9, where the non-linear relationship of the magnitude is determined based on Bloch equations of acquiring the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the k-space data is acquired at least one of rectilinear, echo planar, radial, Cartesian, non-Cartesian, Zig-Zag, stochastic, rosette, TWIRL, WHIRL and spiral trajectories.
12. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) method for reconstructing images acquired with both parallel imaging and partial Fourier acquisition technique using a plurality of receiver coils, the method comprising: acquiring a set of first partial under-sampled k-space data related to a target area of an object with parallel imaging and partial Fourier acquisition using the plurality of receiver coils; respectively performing parallel imaging reconstruction by k-space interpolation of the set of first partial under-sampled k-space data respectively acquired by each of the plurality of receiver coils; recovering respectively missing k-space lines of the set of first partial under-sampled k-space data; respectively combining each of the set of first partial under-sampled k-space data and corresponding missing k-space lines to generate a set of second partial under-sampled k-space data for each of the plurality of receiver coils; respectively forming a plurality of full k-space datasets by implementing partial Fourier reconstruction on the set of second partial under-sampled k-space data; respectively reconstructing a plurality of images from the plurality of full k-space datasets; and combining the plurality of images into a final image.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein recovering respectively missing k-space lines of the first partial under-sampled k-space data comprises: recovering the missing k-space lines using algorithms in image domain including SENSE; or recovering the missing k-space lines using algorithms in k-space domain including GRAPPA.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein respectively forming a plurality of full k-space datasets by implementing the partial Fourier reconstruction comprises: respectively synthesizing third partial k-space data based on a conjugate symmetry of the second partial under-sampled k-space data; respectively estimating a transformation matrix based on the second partial under-sampled k-space data and the third partial k-space data; correcting the third partial k-space data based on the transformation matrix; and forming a full k-space dataset for the target area based on a part of the corrected third partial k-space data and the second partial under-sampled k-space data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein respectively estimating a transformation matrix based on the second partial under-sampled k-space data and the third partial k-space data comprises estimating the transformation matrix based on a part of the second partial under-sampled k-space data and a corresponding part of the third partial k-space data.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the transformation matrix is a multiple dimensional matrix.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the transformation matrix is configured to correct translation, rotation, scaling and shearing of an entire or part of k-space dataset.
18. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system for parallel imaging reconstruction, the system comprising: a magnetic field generating unit configured to apply a plurality of RF pulses to a target area of an object; a plurality of receiver coils configured to receive MR signals from the target area; a processing unit; a system memory; and machine readable instructions stored in the system memory that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the processing unit to: acquire a set of first under-sampled k-space data related to a target area of an object respectively corresponding to the plurality of receiver coils; receive a set of second partial or fully-sampled k-space data related to the target area respectively corresponding to the set of first under-sampled k-space data; perform k-space interpolation of the set of the first under-sampled k-space data respectively acquired by each of the plurality of receiver coils; recover respectively missing k-space lines of each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data using corresponding second partial or fully-sampled k-space data and corresponding first under-sampled k-space data; form a plurality of full k-space datasets related to the target area by respectively combining each of the set of first under-sampled k-space data and corresponding recovered missing k-space lines for each of the plurality of receiver coils; obtain a plurality of fully-sampled images from the plurality of full k-space datasets corresponding to the plurality of receiver coils; and combine images of each individual coils into a final image.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data of the object is obtained by: oversampling a part of missing k-space data of the first under-sampled k-space data acquired by corresponding receiver coil or coils to generate an artifact-free k-space data as a reference.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the second partial or fully-sampled k-space data of the object is obtained by: acquiring a fully sampled MRI k-space data acquired by corresponding receiver coil or coils; or implementing Fourier transform of an artifact-free image in image domain.
</claims>
</document>
