<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHI, XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68766231
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MACHINE-LEARNING ASSISTED INVENTORY PLACEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for managing inventory placement, comprising a memory storing instructions and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions. The processor may be configured to receive an identifier of a product for inventory placement, and determine, based on historical shipment data stored in a database, a region with the highest customer demand for the product. The processor may predict, using a machine learning algorithm, a product tag associated with the product based on at least a temperature associated with the region with the highest customer demand for the product. The processor may further modify the database to assign the product tag to the product identifier, and assign the product for placement in a fulfillment center. The fulfillment center may be associated with a fulfillment center tag corresponding to the product tag assigned to the product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented system for managing inventory placement, the system comprising: a memory storing instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions to: predict, using a machine learning algorithm, a product tag associated with a product based on at least a temperature associated with a region with a highest customer demand for the product; assign the product for placement in a fulfillment center associated with a fulfillment center tag corresponding to the product tag; receive, from a customer, a customer order for the product; identify, from a database, the fulfillment center assigned to the product; and source the product from the identified fulfillment center to be delivered to the customer.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the fulfillment center tag is indicative of a temperature associated with a location of the fulfillment center.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the product tag is dynamically adjustable based on the temperature associated with the region and a date of shipment.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the fulfillment center tag is dynamically adjustable based on the temperature associated with the location of the fulfillment center.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: assign, using the machine learning algorithm, a fulfillment center tag to a fulfillment center based on at least one of temperature associated with a location of the fulfillment center, temperature associated with a serving area of the fulfillment center, or a parameter associated with the fulfillment center.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the parameter associated with the fulfillment center comprises at least one of maximum capacity, building restriction, distance between the fulfillment center and the serving area, or number of serving areas.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: store information associated with the product in the database, wherein the information comprises the product tag assigned to the product; and train the machine learning algorithm to automatically assign product tags to new products based on the information stored in the database.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the fulfillment center tag matches the product tag.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a classification model.
30. The system of claim 22, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: evaluate at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag periodically, wherein evaluating at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag comprises: determining the temperature associated with at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag; determining an actual temperature associated with at least one of the region with the highest customer demand for the product or the location of the fulfillment center; calculating a difference between the temperature with the actual temperature; and replacing at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag with a new tag when the difference exceeds a predetermined threshold.
31. A computer-implemented method for managing inventory placement, the method comprising: predicting, using a machine learning algorithm, a product tag associated with a product based on at least a temperature associated with a region with a highest customer demand for the product; assigning the product for placement in a fulfillment center associated with a fulfillment center tag corresponding to the product tag; receiving, from a customer, a customer order for the product; identifying, from a database, the fulfillment center assigned to the product; and sourcing the product from the identified fulfillment center to be delivered to the customer.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the fulfillment center tag is indicative of a temperature associated with a location of the fulfillment center.
33. The method of claim 31, wherein the product tag is dynamically adjustable based on the temperature associated with the region and a date of shipment.
34. The method of claim 32, wherein the fulfillment center tag is dynamically adjustable based on the temperature associated with the location of the fulfillment center.
35. The method of claim 31, further comprising: assigning, using the machine learning algorithm, a fulfillment center tag to a fulfillment center based on at least one of temperature associated with a location of the fulfillment center, temperature associated with a serving area of the fulfillment center, or a parameter associated with the fulfillment center.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein the parameter associated with the fulfillment center comprises at least one of maximum capacity, building restriction, distance between the fulfillment center and the serving area, or number of serving areas.
37. The method of claim 31, further comprising: storing information associated with the product in the database, wherein the information comprises the product tag assigned to the product; and training the machine learning algorithm to automatically assign product tags to new products based on the information stored in the database.
38. The method of claim 31, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises a classification model.
39. The method of claim 32, further comprising: evaluating at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag periodically, wherein evaluating at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag comprises: determining the temperature associated with at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag; determining an actual temperature associated with at least one of the region with the highest customer demand for the product or the location of the fulfillment center; calculating a difference between the temperature with the actual temperature; and replacing at least one of the product tag or the fulfillment center tag with a new tag when the difference exceeds a predetermined threshold.
40. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform steps, comprising: predicting, using a machine learning algorithm, a product tag associated with a product based on at least a temperature associated with a region with a highest customer demand for the product; assigning the product for placement in a fulfillment center (FC) associated with a fulfillment center tag corresponding to the product tag; receiving, from a customer, a customer order for the product; identifying, from a database, the FC assigned to the product; and sourcing the product from the identified FC to be delivered to the customer.
</claims>
</document>
