<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, CHRIS
JIN, DANNI
ZHAO, RUNHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727862
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUALIZING COMMENT SENTIMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Certain aspects of the present disclosure provide techniques for displaying sentiment of a user text comment. One example method generally includes receiving a text comment comprising a sequence of words, providing a vector sequence representing the sequence of words to a sentiment model configured to output a sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence and providing cleaned text to a topic module configured to output relevance scores. The method further includes receiving, from the sentiment model, the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence and receiving, from the topic module, the relevance scores for the cleaned text. The method further includes determining, final sentiment scores for each word of the sequence of words and generating a sentiment visualization for the sequence of words showing the final sentiment scores corresponding to each word of the sequence of words.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for displaying sentiment of a user text comment, comprising: receiving a text comment; providing a vector sequence representing the text comment to a sentiment model configured to output a sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; receiving, from the sentiment model, the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; providing cleaned text from the text comment to a topic module configured to determine relevance scores between the cleaned text and each topic of a plurality of topics and output the relevance scores; receiving, from the topic module, the relevance scores for the cleaned text; determining, based on the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence and the relevance scores for the cleaned text, final sentiment scores related to the text comment; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores, a sentiment visualization for the text comment.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a plurality of previous final sentiment scores from a sentiment repository; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores and the plurality of previous final sentiment scores, a sentiment trend for each topic of the plurality of topics showing a change in sentiment over time for each topic of the plurality of topics.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising generating a trend visualization for each topic of the plurality of topics based on the sentiment trend for each topic.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the trend visualization is a box graph color coded by topic.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the trend visualization is a radar chart for a given month, wherein each wedge of the radar chart represents a topic of the plurality of topics, a width of each wedge represents a volume of the topic and a radius, and color of each wedge represents a strength of sentiment for the topic.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein, prior to being provided the cleaned text, the topic module plots vector representations of a plurality of keywords associated with the plurality of topics.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the topic module determines the relevance scores by determining a cosine similarity between vector representations of the cleaned text and the vector representations of the plurality of keywords.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a sentiment score for each vector of the vector sequence are weighted based on sentiment scores for preceding vectors in the vector sequence.
9. A computing device, comprising: a processor; and a memory including computer readable instructions, which, when executed by the processor, cause the computing device to perform a method for displaying sentiment of a user text comment, the method comprising: receiving a text comment; providing a vector sequence representing the text comment to a sentiment model configured to output a sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; receiving, from the sentiment model, the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; providing cleaned text from the text comment to a topic module configured to determine relevance scores between the cleaned text and each topic of a plurality of topics and output the relevance scores; receiving, from the topic module, the relevance scores for the cleaned text; determining, based on the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence and the relevance scores for the cleaned text, final sentiment scores related to the text comment; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores, a sentiment visualization for the text comment.
10. The computing device of claim 9, the method further comprising: receiving a plurality of previous final sentiment scores from a sentiment repository; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores and the plurality of previous final sentiment scores, a sentiment trend for each topic of the plurality of topics showing a change in sentiment over time for each topic of the plurality of topics.
11. The computing device of claim 10, the method, further comprising generating a trend visualization for each topic of the plurality of topics based on the sentiment trend for each topic.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the trend visualization is a box graph color coded by topic.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the trend visualization is a radar chart for a given month, wherein each wedge of the radar chart represents a topic of the plurality of topics, a width of each wedge represents a volume of the topic and a radius, and color of each wedge represents a strength of sentiment for the topic.
14. The computing device of claim 9, wherein, prior to being provided the cleaned text, the topic module plots vector representations of a plurality of keywords associated with the plurality of topics.
15. The computing device of claim 14, wherein the topic module determines the relevance scores by determining a cosine similarity between vector representations of the cleaned text and the vector representations of the plurality of keywords.
16. The computing device of claim 9, wherein a sentiment score for each vector of the vector sequence are weighted based on sentiment scores for preceding vectors in the vector sequence.
17. A method for displaying sentiment of a user text comment, comprising: receiving a text comment; providing a vector sequence representing the text comment to a sentiment model configured to output a sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; receiving, from the sentiment model, the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence; providing cleaned text from the text comment to a topic module configured to determine relevance scores between the cleaned text and each topic of a plurality of topics and output the relevance scores; receiving, from the topic module, the relevance scores for the cleaned text; determining, based on the sequence of sentiment scores for the vector sequence and the relevance scores for the cleaned text, final sentiment scores related to the text comment, wherein the final sentiment scores indicate a respective sentiment associated with each respective topic of the plurality of topics for each word of a sequence of words in the cleaned text; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores, a sentiment visualization for the text comment.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a plurality of previous final sentiment scores from a sentiment repository; and generating, based on the final sentiment scores and the plurality of previous final sentiment scores, a sentiment trend for each topic of the plurality of topics showing a change in sentiment over time for each topic of the plurality of topics.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising generating a trend visualization for each topic of the plurality of topics based on the sentiment trend for each topic.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the trend visualization is a box graph color coded by topic.
</claims>
</document>
