<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G16H20/10,G16H30/40,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOUGLAS, DAVID
DOUGLAS, KATHLEEN
DOUGLAS, ROBERT
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOUGLAS, DAVID
DOUGLAS, KATHLEEN
DOUGLAS, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279724
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF CREATING AN ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE GENERATED DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS AND MANAGEMENT RECOMMENDATION TOOL BOXES DURING MEDICAL PERSONNEL ANALYSIS AND REPORTING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for precision reporting in medicine are disclosed. These techniques include assistance with generating a differential diagnosis and management plan, assured communication strategies and error prevention in reporting.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of assisting a medical professional develop a differential diagnosis comprising: generating a report template with at least one information field; generating a comprehensive list of possible differential diagnoses for each information field in the report template; inputting patient specific information within the at least one information field; and performing an artificial intelligence program to yield a list of top output differential diagnoses wherein the list of top output differential diagnoses is selected from the comprehensive list of possible differential diagnoses.
2. The method of claim 1 comprising running artificial intelligence algorithms including deep artificial neural networks and machine learning algorithms.
3. The method of claim 1 comprising medical personnel reporting including diagnostic radiologists, surgeons, primary care physicians and specialists.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the report template with information fields comprises including patient demographics, physical examination findings, laboratory findings, radiology scan type, radiology checklist item, radiology imaging findings, images and other patient specific features.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the comprehensive list of possible differential diagnoses for each information field in the report template comprises including medical textbooks, ICD codes and expert consensus.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein inputting patient specific information comprises including computer inputted information and human inputted information.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein performing the artificial intelligence program to yield the list of top output differential diagnoses comprises utilizing single fields or combining multiple fields.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein performing the artificial intelligence program to yield a list of top output differential diagnoses comprises selecting key items within a field such as numbers, single words or combinations of multiple words.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein performing the artificial intelligence program comprises running deep artificial neural networks and other machine learning algorithms.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein performing the artificial intelligence program comprises utilizing materials including training datasets and medical references.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein machine learning includes generating and applying inclusion criteria resulting in a list of all possible differential diagnoses based one or more fields.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein machine learning includes generating and applying exclusion criteria where non-relevant differential diagnoses and unlikely differential diagnoses are eliminated from display.
13. The method of claim 10 wherein machine learning includes generating the differential diagnoses based on patient specific information from at least two information fields.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein outputting a differential diagnosis by the artificial intelligence algorithm comprises one of the group of: visually representing to the user via a pop-up box icon on the computer; and, auditorily representing via an audible voice recording.
15. The method of claim 1 wherein human review comprises one of the group of: the pertinent item(s) being considered by the artificial intelligence algorithm; weighting factors; past medical reports; and, other medical references.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein reviewing the differential diagnosis by the artificial intelligence algorithm comprises selecting the diagnosis or differential diagnosis to be sent to the conclusion (aka, impression, assessment) section of the report.
17. The method of claim 1 comprising performing a second review of the medical examination, revising the patient specific information fields or the impression section of the report the differential diagnosis and changing at least one item of one field.
18. The method of claim 1 comprising providing a hyperlink to medical reference materials supporting the differential diagnosis provided.
19. The method of claim 1 comprising updating the training dataset by adding new information including the patient specific information fields with an associated differential diagnosis and management recommendations.
20. A method of assessing the congruency between data within a medical report and the conclusion of a medical report comprising: loading the medical report into a computer; and performing an artificial intelligence program to determine the congruency between the patient specific information within at least one information field and an impression section of the report.
21. The method of claim 20 comprising alerting a medical professional of any discordance between the patient specific information within the at least one information field and the impression section of the report.
22. A method of precision radiology reporting comprising: generating a checklist for a radiology examination with multiple information fields; generating a list of terminology inappropriate for said information fields; entering text into information fields in the radiology report; and performing an automated review of said entered text wherein a notification is presented to the user if terminology inappropriate for said information field is identified.
23. A method of precision radiology reporting comprising: generating a checklist for a radiology examination with multiple information fields; generating a list of terminology for ones of the information fields that require secondary descriptive terminology; generating a list of said secondary descriptive terminology; entering text into the information fields in the radiology report; and performing an automated review of said entered text wherein a notification is presented to the user if a said terminology for said information fields which require secondary descriptive terminology is not accompanied by said secondary descriptive terminology.
24. A method of characterizing a radiology report comprising: generating a checklist for a radiology examination with multiple information fields; generating a list of preferred terminology preferred for said information fields; entering text into information fields in the radiology report; and performing an automated review of said entered text wherein a quantitative metric on the frequency of the preferred terminology entered in relation to the total text is presented to the user.
25. A method of assured communication of critical patient information during medical reporting comprising: generating a report template with at least one information field; generating a comprehensive list of terminology indicating critical patient information and requiring communication for each information field in the report template; selecting at least one user to receive critical patient information; inputting patient specific information within the said at least one information field; analyzing said patient specific information in said at least one information field for said comprehensive list of terminology indicating critical patient information and requiring communication; and implementing a digital alert notifying said critical patient information to said users.
26. The method of claim 25 comprising electronically providing notification to a first user when a second user receives said digital alert.
</claims>
</document>
