<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02F1/1333,G02F1/1362,G02F1/1368,H01L27/15,H01L27/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUSUMOTO, NAOTO
KAWASHIMA, SUSUMU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66993164
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY DEVICE AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A display device capable of improving image quality is provided. The display device includes a plurality of capacitors, a plurality of transistors, and a display element in a pixel. The plurality of capacitors are connected in series through a wiring, and one of the plurality of transistors is electrically connected to one electrode of the plurality of capacitors connected in series, the other electrode thereof, and the wiring. The display element can operate in accordance with the sum of a plurality of pieces of input data, so that image correction such as image upconversion, HDR display, or improvement in the luminance can be performed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display device comprising: a plurality of capacitors; a plurality of transistors; and a display element, wherein the plurality of capacitors are connected in series through a wiring, wherein one of the transistors is electrically connected to one electrode of the plurality of capacitors connected in series, wherein one of the transistors is electrically connected to the other electrode of the plurality of electrodes, wherein the display element is electrically connected to the other electrode of the plurality of capacitors connected in series, and wherein one of the transistors is electrically connected to the wiring.
2. A display device comprising: a first transistor; a second transistor; a third transistor; a first capacitor; a second capacitor; and a circuit block, wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the first capacitor, wherein the one electrode of the first capacitor is electrically connected to the circuit block, wherein the other electrode of the first capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the second transistor, wherein the one of the source and the drain of the second transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the second capacitor, wherein the other electrode of the second capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the third transistor, and wherein the circuit block comprises a display element.
3. The display device according to claim 2, further comprising a first wiring, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring, and wherein the other of the source and the drain of the third transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring.
4. The display device according to claim 3, further comprising: a fourth transistor; a fifth transistor; a second wiring; and a third wiring, wherein one of a source and a drain of the fourth transistor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the second capacitor, wherein one of a source and a drain of the fifth transistor is electrically connected to the other electrode of the second capacitor, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the second transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring, wherein a gate of the first transistor is electrically connected to the second wiring, wherein a gate of the fourth transistor is electrically connected to the second wiring, wherein a gate of the second transistor is electrically connected to the third wiring, and wherein a gate of the fifth transistor is electrically connected to the third wiring.
5. A display device comprising: a first circuit; a second circuit; a second transistor; a third transistor; and a second capacitor, wherein the first circuit and the second circuit each comprise a first transistor, a first capacitor, and a circuit block, wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the first capacitor, wherein the one electrode of the first capacitor is electrically connected to the circuit block, wherein the other electrode of the first capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the second transistor, wherein the one of the source and the drain of the second transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the second capacitor, wherein the other electrode of the second capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the third transistor, and wherein the circuit block comprises a display element.
6. The display device according to claim 5, further comprising a first wiring, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the first transistor included in the first circuit is electrically connected to the first wiring, and wherein the other of the source and the drain of the third transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring.
7. The display device according to claim 6, further comprising: a fourth transistor; a fifth transistor; a second wiring; and a third wiring, wherein one of a source and a drain of the fourth transistor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the second capacitor, wherein one of a source and a drain of the fifth transistor is electrically connected to the other electrode of the second capacitor, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the second transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring, wherein a gate of the first transistor included in the first circuit is electrically connected to the second wiring, wherein a gate of the first transistor included in the second circuit is electrically connected to the second wiring, wherein a gate of the fourth transistor is electrically connected to the second wiring, wherein a gate of the second transistor is electrically connected to the third wiring, and wherein a gate of the fifth transistor is electrically connected to the third wiring.
8. The display device according to claim 2, wherein the circuit block comprises a sixth transistor, a seventh transistor, a third capacitor, and an EL element as the display element, wherein one electrode of the EL element is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the seventh transistor, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the seventh transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the third capacitor, wherein one electrode of the third capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the sixth transistor, wherein a gate of the sixth transistor is electrically connected to the other electrode of the third capacitor, and wherein the other electrode of the third capacitor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
9. The display device according to claim 2, wherein the circuit block comprises a fourth capacitor and a liquid crystal element as the display element, wherein one electrode of the liquid crystal element is electrically connected to one electrode of the fourth capacitor, and wherein the one electrode of the fourth capacitor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
10. The display device according to claim 9, further comprising an eighth transistor, wherein the one electrode of the fourth capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the eighth transistor, and wherein the other of the source and the drain of the eighth transistor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
11. The display device according to claim 2, wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region, wherein the metal oxide comprises In, Zn, and M, and wherein M is Al, Ti, Ga, Sn, Y, Zr, La, Ce, Nd, or Hf.
12. An electronic device comprising: the display device according to claim 1; and a camera.
13. The display device according to claim 5, wherein the circuit block comprises a sixth transistor, a seventh transistor, a third capacitor, and an EL element as the display element, wherein one electrode of the EL element is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the seventh transistor, wherein the other of the source and the drain of the seventh transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the third capacitor, wherein one electrode of the third capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the sixth transistor, wherein a gate of the sixth transistor is electrically connected to the other electrode of the third capacitor, and wherein the other electrode of the third capacitor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
14. The display device according to claim 13, wherein the circuit block comprises a fourth capacitor and a liquid crystal element as the display element, wherein one electrode of the liquid crystal element is electrically connected to one electrode of the fourth capacitor, and wherein the one electrode of the fourth capacitor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
15. The display device according to claim 14, further comprising an eighth transistor, wherein the one electrode of the fourth capacitor is electrically connected to one of a source and a drain of the eighth transistor, and wherein the other of the source and the drain of the eighth transistor is electrically connected to the one electrode of the first capacitor.
16. The display device according to claim 5, wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region, wherein the metal oxide comprises In, Zn, and M, and wherein M is Al, Ti, Ga, Sn, Y, Zr, La, Ce, Nd, or Hf.
17. An electronic device comprising: the display device according to claim 2; and a camera.
18. An electronic device comprising: the display device according to claim 5; and a camera.
</claims>
</document>
