<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHILAKAMARRI, VENKAT PRADEEP
HU, RUI
LARSON, JILL KATHLEEN
WALD, ANDREW JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68610330
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOCUMENT CONTRIBUTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A contribution management system and process for facilitating the identification of individual users who have made contributions to an electronic content item, and the extent of that contribution. As an example, a reader may review the list of contributors with a representation of their relative degree or amount of contribution to the document, and also allow for access to other documents that have been developed by the identified contributor. These tools can provide collaborative document users the ability to more clearly distinguish casual contributors or non-contributing owners of the document from higher-level contributors whose authorship has significantly shaped the content. In addition, the listing or identification of top contributors can be configured to facilitate communication between an interested reader and the identified contributor, which increases the ease with which members of larger organizations can collaborate, seek mentorship, or develop useful relationships.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing system comprising: at least one processor; and one or more computer readable media including instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: identify, a first plurality of contributors to at least a portion of an electronic content item, the first plurality of contributors including a first contributor and a second contributor; determine a first contribution metric for the first contributor and a second contribution metric for the second contributor, wherein the contribution metric for the first contributor indicates how much of the electronic content item was generated by the first contributor, and wherein the contribution metric for the second contributor indicates how much of the electronic content item was generated by the second contributor; allocate, based at least on a comparison of the first contribution metric with the second contribution metric, a first score to the first contributor and a second score to the second contributor, the first score being higher than the second score; and cause to be displayed, to a first user accessing the electronic content item, a user interface including a first contributor listing identifying each contributor and a representation of their relative contribution to the electronic content item.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first contributor listing presents the first contributor and the second contributor in order of their respective scores.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface further includes a first selectable option for the first user to view additional information associated with the first contributor listing, and wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive a first user selection of the first selectable option; and automatically cause to be displayed, in response to receiving the first user selection, the additional information associated with the first contributor listing.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the additional information comprises a first actuatable profile, and wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive a second user selection of the first actuatable profile; and automatically cause to be displayed, in response to receiving the second user selection, a communication interface for contacting the first contributor.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the additional information comprises a first actuatable profile, and wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive a second user selection of the first actuatable profile; and automatically cause to be displayed, in response to receiving the user actuation, one or more electronic content items to which the first contributor has contributed.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first contribution metric is determined by reference to at least one of a total modification duration, a number of modification events, and a total amount of data added.
7. A method of presenting a contributor listing for electronic content comprising: identifying, at a first time, a first plurality of contributors to at least a portion of an electronic content item, the first plurality of contributors including a first contributor and a second contributor; determining a first contribution metric for the first contributor and a second contribution metric for the second contributor, wherein the contribution metric for the first contributor indicates how much of the electronic content item was generated by the first contributor, and wherein the contribution metric for the second contributor indicates how much of the electronic content item was generated by the second contributor; allocating, based at least on a comparison of the first contribution metric with the second contribution metric, a first score to the first contributor and a second score to the second contributor, the first score being higher than the second score; and causing to be displayed, to a first user accessing the electronic content item, a user interface including a first contributor listing identifying each contributor and a representation of their relative contribution to the electronic content item.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first contributor listing presents the first contributor and the second contributor in order of their respective scores.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the user interface also includes a first selectable option for the first user to view additional information associated with the first contributor listing, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving a first user selection of the first selectable option; and automatically causing to be displayed, in response to receiving the first user selection, the additional information associated with the first contributor listing.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the additional information comprises an expanded view of the first contributor listing that displays all contributors of the first plurality of contributors in order of their relative scores.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the additional information comprises a first actuatable profile for the first contributor, and the method further comprises: receiving a second user selection of the first actuatable profile; and automatically causing to be displayed, in response to receiving the second user selection, a communication interface for contacting the first contributor.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the additional information comprises a first actuatable profile for the first contributor, and the method further comprises: receiving a second user selection of the first actuatable profile; and automatically initiating, in response to receiving the second user selection, a communications session with the first contributor.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the additional information comprises a first actuatable profile for the first contributor, and the method further comprises: receiving a second user selection of the first actuatable profile; and automatically causing to be displayed, in response to receiving the user actuation, one or more electronic content items to which the first contributor has contributed.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying, at a second time later than the first time, a second plurality of contributors to the electronic content item, the second plurality of contributors including at least the first plurality of contributors; determining a third contribution metric for the first contributor and a fourth contribution metric for the second contributor; allocating, based at least on a comparison of the third contribution metric with the fourth contribution metric, a third score to the first contributor and a fourth score to the second contributor, the fourth score being higher than the third score; and causing to be displayed after the second time, to the first user accessing the electronic content item, an updated user interface including a second contributor listing in which the second contributor is listed above the first contributor.
15. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying, at a second time later than the first time, a second plurality of contributors to the electronic content item, the second plurality of contributors including the first contributor, the second contributor, and a third contributor; determining a third contribution metric for the first contributor, a fourth contribution metric for the second contributor, and a fifth contribution metric for the third contributor; and allocating, based at least on a comparison among the third contribution metric, the fourth contribution metric, and the fifth contribution metric, a third score to the first contributor, a fourth score to the second contributor, and a fifth score to the third contributor, the fifth score being higher than either of the third score and the fourth score; causing to be displayed after the second time, to the first user accessing the electronic content item, an updated user interface including a second contributor listing in which the third contributor is listed above the first contributor and the second contributor.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the updated user interface further comprises a panel indicating when each contributor of the second contributor listing last modified the electronic content item.
17. The method of claim 7, wherein the first contribution metric is determined with reference to at least a total period of time during which the first contributor modified the electronic content item.
18. A method of automated generation of machine learning training data, the method comprising: causing to be displayed at a first time, to a first user accessing a first electronic content item, a first user interface including: a first listing identifying a first plurality of contributors to at least a portion of the first electronic content item, the first listing being presented in a first order, and a first selectable option for the first user to provide a first feedback regarding an accuracy of the first order; receiving a first user selection of the first selectable option confirming the accuracy of the first order; automatically generating first training data based at least on the received first user selection; and configuring a training model, based at least on the generated first training data, to determine a contribution score for each contributor of a second plurality of contributors who have contributed to a second electronic content item.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: causing to be displayed at a second time later than the first time, to a second user accessing the second electronic content item, a second user interface including a second listing identifying each contributor of the second plurality of contributors in a second order corresponding to their contribution score.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the second user interface further includes a second selectable option for the second user to provide a second feedback regarding an accuracy of the second order; and the method further comprises: receiving a second user selection of the second selectable option objecting to the accuracy of the second order; automatically generating second training data based at least on the received second user selection; and reconfiguring the training model, based at least on the generated second training data.
</claims>
</document>
