<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/16,G08B19/00,G08B21/02,G08B21/10,G08B21/18,G08B23/00,G08B25/10,G08B31/00,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, YOUNG CHOON
POURMOHAMMAD, SAJJAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65806744
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUILDING RISK ANALYSIS SYSTEM WITH DYNAMIC MODIFICATION OF ASSET-THREAT WEIGHTS
</title>

<abstract>
A building management system includes one or more computer-readable storage media having a data structure, wherein the data structure comprises a plurality of vulnerabilities and a plurality of pairs, each of the plurality of pairs comprising one of a plurality of assets and one of the plurality of threat types, wherein each of the plurality of pairs is associated with one of the plurality of vulnerabilities and instructions. The instructions cause one or more processors to receive a threat, the threat comprising a particular threat type of the plurality of threat types, the threat indicating an incident affecting a risk value associated with a particular asset of the plurality of assets, identify a particular vulnerability of the data structure based on the particular threat type and the particular asset, and determine, based on the particular vulnerability and the threat, the risk value associated with the particular asset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A risk management system comprising: one or more computer-readable storage media storing: a data structure, wherein the data structure comprises a plurality of vulnerabilities for an asset to a plurality of threat types; and instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a threat, the threat comprising a particular threat type of the plurality of threat types, the threat indicating an incident affecting a risk value associated with the asset; identify a particular vulnerability of the data structure based on the particular threat type; and determine, based on the particular vulnerability and the threat, the risk value associated with the asset.
22. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein the asset is at least one of a user, a space, a building, or a device.
23. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein each of the plurality of vulnerabilities comprise a binary indication of whether the asset is affected by the plurality of threat types.
24. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein each of the plurality of vulnerabilities is a numeric value indicating an amount that the asset is affected by each of the plurality of threat types, wherein the numeric value is between zero and one.
25. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein the data structure is a matrix comprising a first dimension and a second dimension, wherein a plurality of assets including the asset are associated with the first dimension and the plurality of threat types are associated with the second dimension.
26. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: provide a data structure retrieve endpoint, wherein the data structure retrieve endpoint is configured to provide the data structure to a requesting device; and provide a data structure update endpoint, wherein the data structure update endpoint is configured to update vulnerabilities of the data structure based on updates received from the requesting device.
27. The risk management system of claim 21, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive, via a user interface, a first update to a vulnerability associated with the asset and the particular threat type; and update the data structure with the first update to the vulnerability.
28. The risk management system of claim 27, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: generate, for the asset, a set of threat types that the asset is vulnerable to based on the data structure, wherein the set of threat types are threat types that affect the risk value of the asset; cause the user interface to display the set of threat types; receive, via the user interface, a second update to the set of threat types, the second update comprising an indication to add one or more new threat types, wherein the data structure does not indicate that the risk value of the asset is affected by the one or more new threat types; and update the plurality of vulnerabilities of the data structure based on the second update by adding vulnerabilities based on the indication to add the one or more new threat types of the set of threat types.
29. The risk management system of claim 27, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: generate a set indicating identifiers of each of a plurality of assets; cause the user interface to display the set indicating the identifiers of each of the plurality of assets; receive a selection of the asset from the set indicating the identifiers of each of the plurality of assets; and update the plurality of vulnerabilities of the data structure in response to receiving the selection of the asset.
30. The risk management system of claim 27, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive an asset indication of a set of assets of a plurality of assets, the set of assets associated with a particular asset category; generate, for the set of assets, a set of threat types that the set of assets are vulnerable to based on the data structure, wherein the set of threat types are threat types that affect risk values of the set of assets; cause the user interface to display the set of threat types; receive, via the user interface, a second update to the set of threat types, the update comprising an indication to add one or more new threat types, wherein the data structure does not indicate that the risk values of the set of assets are affected by the one or more new threat types; and update the plurality of vulnerabilities of the data structure based on the second update by adding vulnerabilities based on the indication to add the one or more new threat types of the set of threat types.
31. The risk management system of claim 30, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: generate a set indicating a plurality of asset categories; cause the user interface to display the set indicating the plurality of asset categories; receive a selection of the particular asset category from the set indicating the plurality of asset categories; and update the plurality of vulnerabilities of the data structure in response to receiving the selection of the particular asset category.
32. A method of risk management, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processing circuits, a threat, the threat comprising a particular threat type of a plurality of threat types, the threat indicating an incident affecting a risk value associated with an asset; identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, a particular vulnerability of a data structure based on the particular threat type, wherein the data structure comprises a plurality of vulnerabilities for the asset to the plurality of threat types; and determining, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the particular vulnerability and the threat, the risk value associated with the asset.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the asset is at least one of a user, a space, a building, or a device.
34. The method of claim 32, wherein each of the plurality of vulnerabilities comprise a binary indication of whether the asset is affected by the plurality of threat types.
35. The method of claim 32, wherein each of the plurality of vulnerabilities is a numeric value indicating an amount that the asset is affected by each of the plurality of threat types, wherein the numeric value is between zero and one.
36. The method of claim 32, wherein the data structure is a matrix comprising a first dimension and a second dimension, wherein a plurality of assets including the asset are associated with the first dimension and the plurality of threat types are associated with the second dimension.
37. The method of claim 32, further comprising: providing, by the one or more processing circuits, a data structure retrieve endpoint, wherein the data structure retrieve endpoint is configured to provide the data structure to a requesting device; and providing, by the one or more processing circuits, a data structure update endpoint, wherein the data structure update endpoint is configured to update vulnerabilities of the data structure based on updates received from the requesting device.
38. The method of claim 32, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processing circuits, via a user interface, an update to a vulnerability associated with the asset and the particular threat type; and updating, by the one or more processing circuits, the data structure with the update to the vulnerability.
39. A risk management system comprising: one or more computer-readable storage media having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of threat events indicating a potential threat to one or more of a plurality of assets, the threat events associated with a plurality of threat categories, the plurality of assets associated with a plurality of locations; for each asset of the plurality of assets: determine one or more of the threat events affecting the asset; and generate a risk score for each of the plurality of assets based on the threat events determined to affect the asset; generate a location-specific aggregated risk score for two or more of the plurality of locations based on a combination of the risk score of at least some the plurality of assets associated with the plurality of locations; generate a category-specific risk metric indicating, for each of at least two or more of the plurality of threat categories, a number of threat events associated with the plurality of threat categories; generate user interface data including, within a single interface, visual representations of both location-specific aggregated risk scores for the two or more of the plurality of locations and category-specific risk metrics for the two or more of the plurality of threat categories; and cause the user interface data to be displayed on a display device.
40. The risk management system of claim 39, wherein the plurality of assets comprise at least one of a user, a space, a building, or a device.
</claims>
</document>
