<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CEDAR, ERAN
JIANG, YIZHOU
LI WENHUA
NAMA, VIVEK
SHAH, VIVEK S.
SHI, TUO
YOU, NATALIE
YUAN, QUAN
ZOU, MUHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56886987
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bi-Directional Multi-Channel Social Media Brokering
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a detailed description of techniques used in systems, methods, and in computer program products for bi-directional social media broker services that connect multiple social media sites using a common management framework. The claimed embodiments address the problem of efficiently scaling and managing bidirectional interaction with multiple social media publishing channels. More specifically, the claimed embodiments are directed to approaches for a computing platform having multiple message broker modules that enable bi-directional communication of messages between a common resource manager and a plurality of social media sites. The message broker modules can receive messages in a unified message format from the common resource manager, queue the messages for asynchronous processing, translate the messages from the unified message format to a site-specific format, and deliver the translated messages to multiple social media sites.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more non-transitory computer readable media comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, causes performance of operations comprising: receiving, from a social resource management application via a communication application, a first communication comprising first content formatted using a first format, wherein the communication application is specific to a social media site; responsive to receiving the first communication: converting the first content to a second format, specific to the social media site, to generate a first converted communication; and transmitting the first converted communication to the social media site; receiving a second communication from the social media site, the second communication comprising second content formatted using the second format, wherein the second content comprises at least one data item responsive to the first converted message; and responsive to receiving the second message: converting the second content to the first format to generate a second converted communication; and transmitting the second converted communication to the social resource management application.
2. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the social resource management application comprises a user interface, and wherein the first content is populated based on user interaction with the user interface.
3. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the second content comprises statistical data associated with the social media site.
4. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: providing, to the social resource management application, a second communication application specific to a second social media site; receiving a third communication from the social resource management application and via the second communication application, the third communication comprising third content formatted using the first format; and responsive to receiving the third communication: converting the third content to a third format, specific to the second social media site, to generate a third converted communication; and transmitting the third converted communication to the second social media site.
5. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the communication application comprises display parameters and content constraints associated with the social media site.
6. The one or more media of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: prior to receiving the first communication from the social resource management application, establishing a connection with a server associated with the social media site to facilitate authenticated access to the social media site.
7. A method comprising: receiving, from a social resource management application via a communication application, a first communication comprising first content formatted using a first format, wherein the communication application is specific to a social media site; responsive to receiving the first communication: converting the first content to a second format, specific to the social media site, to generate a first converted communication; and transmitting the first converted communication to the social media site; receiving a second communication from the social media site, the second communication comprising second content formatted using the second format, wherein the second content comprises at least one data item responsive to the first converted message; and responsive to receiving the second message: converting the second content to the first format to generate a second converted communication; and transmitting the second converted communication to the social resource management application, wherein the method is performed by at least one device including a hardware processor.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the social resource management application comprises a user interface, and wherein the first content is populated based on user interaction with the user interface.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second content comprises statistical data associated with the social media site.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: providing, to the social resource management application, a second communication application specific to a second social media site; receiving a third communication from the social resource management application and via the second communication application, the third communication comprising third content formatted using the first format; and responsive to receiving the third communication: converting the third content to a third format, specific to the second social media site, to generate a third converted communication; and transmitting the third converted communication to the second social media site.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the communication application comprises display parameters and content constraints associated with the social media site.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising: prior to receiving the first communication from the social resource management application, establishing a connection with a server associated with the social media site to facilitate authenticated access to the social media site.
13. A system comprising: at least one device including a hardware processor; the system being configured to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a social resource management application via a communication application, a first communication comprising first content formatted using a first format, wherein the communication application is specific to a social media site; responsive to receiving the first communication: converting the first content to a second format, specific to the social media site, to generate a first converted communication; and transmitting the first converted communication to the social media site; receiving a second communication from the social media site, the second communication comprising second content formatted using the second format, wherein the second content comprises at least one data item responsive to the first converted message; and responsive to receiving the second message: converting the second content to the first format to generate a second converted communication; and transmitting the second converted communication to the social resource management application.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the social resource management application comprises a user interface, and wherein the first content is populated based on user interaction with the user interface.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the second content comprises statistical data associated with the social media site.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: providing, to the social resource management application, a second communication application specific to a second social media site; receiving a third communication from the social resource management application and via the second communication application, the third communication comprising third content formatted using the first format; and responsive to receiving the third communication: converting the third content to a third format, specific to the second social media site, to generate a third converted communication; and transmitting the third converted communication to the second social media site.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the communication application comprises display parameters and content constraints associated with the social media site.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: prior to receiving the first communication from the social resource management application, establishing a connection with a server associated with the social media site to facilitate authenticated access to the social media site.
19. One or more non-transitory computer readable media comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, causes performance of operations comprising: receiving, from a social resource management application, a first communication for a social media website, the first communication comprising first content formatted using a first message format, wherein the first message format comprises a plurality of fields, and wherein each of the plurality of fields includes a corresponding value; selecting a second message format based on the social media website, the second message format comprising one or more fields; determining that a first field of the first format is mapped to a particular field, of the one or more fields, of the second format; determining that a second field of the first format is not mapped to any field, of the one or more fields, of the second format; creating a translated message in the second message format, wherein the translated message includes a translated field value corresponding to the first field of the first format and does not include a value associated with the second field of the first format; and transmitting the translated message to the social media website.
20. The one or more media of claim 19, wherein creating the translated message comprises translating the value associated with the first field from the first format to the second format to create the translated field value.
</claims>
</document>
