<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/353,H04N5/372
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHENGDU ZHONGXIN HUARUI TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
QIN, JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63194784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CROSS-ROW TIME DELAY INTEGRATION METHOD, APPARATUS AND CAMERA
</title>

<abstract>
The application provides a cross-row time delay integral method, apparatus and camera. The method includes obtaining a first stage integral energy in an i-th target region from an i-th row of a first integral piece domain; transferring the first stage integral energy across rows to an i-th row of a second integral piece domain; obtaining the first stage integral energy and an second stage integral energy accumulated in the i-th target region from the i-th row of the second integral piece domain, after an integration period; outputting an image of the i-th target region containing the first stage integral energy and the second stage integral energy. The application performs cross-row integration through the energy obtained by imaging, the shooting of the target can be carried out in a higher-speed environment, the method can be implemented on the existing photoelectric device, and the method has excellent imaging quality and wide applicability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Cross-row time delay integration method, which is applied to cross-row time delay integration camera, wherein the method comprising: obtaining a first stage integral energy in an i-th target region from an i-th row of a first integral piece domain; transferring the first stage integral energy across rows to an i-th row of a second integral piece domain; obtaining the first stage integral energy and an second stage integral energy accumulated in the i-th target region from the i-th row of the second integral piece domain, after an integration period; outputting an image of the i-th target region containing the first stage integral energy and the second stage integral energy.
2. According to the method of claim 1, wherein a camera array of the cross-row time delay integration camera is divided into a plurality of integral piece domains used for imaging, each of the integral piece domain comprises a plurality of rows used for imaging.
3. According to the method of claim 2, wherein the number of rows of each of the integral piece domain is equal.
4. According to the method of claim 1, wherein after the step of obtaining the first stage integral energy and an second stage integral energy accumulated in the i-th target region from the i-th row of the second integral piece domain, after an integration period, the method further includes: transferring the first stage integral energy and the second stage integral energy accumulated across rows to an i-th row of a third integral piece domain; obtaining the first stage integral energy, the second stage integral energy and the third stage integral energy accumulated in the i-th target region from the i-th row of the third integral piece domain, after an integration period; outputting an image of the i-th target region containing the first stage integral energy, the second stage integral energy and the third stage integral energy.
5. According to the method of claim 1, wherein the method further includes: while obtaining the first stage integral energy in the i-th target region from an i-th row of the first integral piece domain, obtaining an I stage integral energy in an x-th target region from an x-th row of the first integral piece domain, wherein the x-th row is any row other than the i-th row; transferring the I-th stage integral energy across rows to an x-th row of the second integral piece domain; obtaining the I-th stage integral energy and an II-th stage integral energy accumulated in the x-th target region from the x-th row of the second integral piece domain, after an integration period; outputting an image of the x-th target region containing the I-th stage integral energy and the II-th stage integral energy.
6. According to the method of claim 5, wherein after the step of obtaining the I-th stage integral energy and an II-th stage integral energy accumulated in the x-th target region from the x-th row of the second integral piece domain, the method further includes: transferring the I-th stage integral energy and the II-th stage integral energy accumulated across rows to an x-th row of a third integral piece domain; obtaining the I-th stage integral energy, the II-th stage integral energy and a III-th stage integral energy accumulated in the x-th target region from the x-th row of the third integral piece domain, after an integration period; outputting an image of the x-th target region containing the I-th stage integral energy, the II-th stage integral energy and the III-th stage integral energy.
7. According to the method of claim 1, wherein the method further includes: accumulating an k−1 stage integral energy transferred to an i-th row of an k-th integral piece domain and energy obtained by a k-th exposure, obtaining a k stage integral image including a k stage integral energy, wherein the k stage integral energy includes an integral energy of an imaging of the i-th target region on the i-th row of the first integral piece domain in sequence up to the i-th row of the k-th integral piece domain, each of the integral piece domain includes a k stage integral image of m rows formed by an effective imaging region of m rows; outputting the k stage integral image of m rows, imaging of k integral piece domains can share one energy collection system or use a plurality of energy collection system.
8. According to the method of claim 1, wherein an stage integral energy correspondingly transferred from a row of an upper integral piece domain to a row of a next integral piece domain is analog quantity or digital quantity; the energy transferred from a photosensitive unit located at a position(i,j) in an upper integral piece domain coordinate system to a photosensitive unit located at a position (i,j) in a next integral piece domain coordinate system is transferred through a physical connection manner.
9. According to the method of claim 8, wherein the photosensitive unit located at a position(i,j) in the upper integral piece domain coordinate system is connected through a circuit to the photosensitive unit located at a position (i,j) in the next integral piece domain coordinate system.
10. According to the method of claim 8, wherein when transferring energy from a photosensitive unit located at a position(i,j) in the upper integral piece domain coordinate system to a photosensitive unit located at a position (i,j) in the next integral piece domain coordinate system, stage integral energy obtained from the upper photosensitive unit is processed through a computer and is converted to digital signals, and then is sent across rows to the next photosensitive unit.
11. According to the method of claim 1, wherein energy transferred from a photosensitive unit located at a position(i,j) in an upper integral piece domain coordinate system to a photosensitive unit located at a position (i,j) in a next integral piece domain coordinate system is original charge energy, or energy after processing the original charge energy.
12. According to the method of claim 1, wherein lens of the cross-row time delay integration camera is a cylindrical lens, or a spherical lens, or combination of cylindrical lenses, or combination of spherical lenses, or combination of cylindrical lenses and spherical lenses.
13. According to the method of claim 1, wherein when transferring integral energy from an upper integral piece domain to a next integral piece domain, the number of rows crossed is determined through relative motion speed between a target region and the across-row time delay integration camera, and refresh frequency of the cross-row time delay integration camera.
14. Cross-row time delay integration apparatus, wherein the apparatus comprising: a first acquisition module, configured to obtain a first stage integral energy in an i-th target region from an i-th row of a first integral piece domain; a first transfer module, configured to transfer the first stage integral energy across rows to an i-th row of a second integral piece domain; a second acquisition module, configured to obtain the first stage integral energy and an second stage integral energy accumulated in the i-th target region from the i-th row of the second integral piece domain, after an integration period; a first output module, configured to output an image of the i-th target region containing the first stage integral energy and the second stage integral energy.
15. Cross-row time delay integration camera, wherein the camera comprising an imaging element and a controller, the imaging element and the controller is connected, the imaging element includes a plurality of integral piece domains, each of the integral piece domain includes a plurality of rows of effective imaging region, wherein the controller is configured to respectively controlling the plurality of rows of effective imaging region for independently photoelectric conversion, energy processing, energy transfer, energy integration and image output, wherein the number of the integration piece domains, the number of rows of the effective imaging region on each of the integral piece domain, the number of rows of energy across-row transfer, and the number of stages of energy integration can be edited; under the control of the controller, the cross-row time delay integration camera implements the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
