<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, Junsik
KWON, Jina
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73506253
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A display apparatus includes a display; a communication circuit configured to communicate with a first external device or a second external device; a storage configured to store a list of a first content group designated to allow sharing by a first user of the first external device, a second content group designed to block sharing by the first user, a third content group designated to allow sharing by a second user of the second external device, and a fourth content group designated to block sharing by the second user; and a processor configured to: selectively process a content list based on detection of the first external device and detection of the second external device through the communication circuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display apparatus comprising: a display; a communication circuit configured to communicate with a first external device and a second external device; a storage configured to store a list of a first content group designated to allow sharing of content from the first external device to the display by a first user of the first external device, a second content group designed to block sharing of the content from the first external device to the display by the first user, a third content group designated to allow sharing of content from the second external device to the display by a second user of the second external device, and a fourth content group designated to block sharing of the content from the second external device to the display by the second user; and a processor configured to: process a content list comprising the first content group and the second content group to be displayed on the display based on detection of the first external device and no detection of the second external device through the communication circuit, process a content list comprising the third content group and the fourth content group to be displayed on the display based on no detection of the first external device and detection of the second external device through the communication circuit, and process a content list comprising the first content group and the third content group to be displayed on the display and a content list comprising the second content group and the fourth content group not to be displayed on the display, based on detection of both the first external device and the second external device through the communication circuit.
2. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the communication circuit is further configured to detect the first external device and the second external device within a predetermined distance range from the display apparatus, and perform a connection for one-to-one wireless communication with the detected first external device and the detected second external device.
3. The display apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the communication circuit complies with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.15 standards.
4. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to retrieve a designated state of the content from the list stored in the storage, based on receiving a requesting instruction for a content list.
5. The display apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to process a message to be displayed on the display to indicate that the content list of the second content group and the fourth content group is not displayed.
6. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to identify whether the first external device is detected through the communication circuit based on an activation instruction for a predetermined function provided in the display apparatus, and to block activation of the predetermined function based on no detection of the first external device.
7. The display apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the predetermined function comprises pivoting the display.
8. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to identify a function of the display apparatus corresponding to an attribute of content, and to activate the identified function based on display of an image of the content.
9. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein content of the first content group and the second content group is obtained from the first external device, and content of the third content group and the fourth content group is obtained from the second external device.
10. A method of controlling a display apparatus, comprising: storing a list of a first content group designated to allow sharing of content from a first external device to a display of the display apparatus by a first user of the first external device, a second content group designed to block sharing of the content from the first external device to the display by the first user, a third content group designated to allow sharing of content from a second external device to the display by a second user of the second external device, and a fourth content group designated to block sharing of the content from the second external device to the display by the second user; displaying, on the display, a content list comprising the first content group and the second content group based on detection of the first external device and no detection of the second external device through a communication circuit of the display apparatus; displaying, on the display, a content list comprising the third content group and the fourth content group based on no detection of the first external device and detection of the second external device through the communication circuit; and processing a content list comprising the first content group and the third content group to be displayed on the display and a content list comprising the second content group and the fourth content group not to be displayed on the display, based on detection of both the first external device and the second external device through the communication circuit.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the communication circuit is further configured to detect the first external device and the second external device within a predetermined distance range from the display apparatus, and perform a connection for one-to-one wireless communication with the detected first external device and the detected second external device.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the communication circuit complies with Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) 802.15 standards.
13. The method according to claim 10, further comprising retrieving a designated state of the content from the list stored in the storage, based on receiving a requesting instruction for a content list.
14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising displaying a message on the display to indicate that the content list of the second content group and the fourth content group is not displayed.
15. The method according to claim 10, further comprising identifying whether the first external device is detected through the communication circuit based on an activation instruction for a predetermined function provided in the display apparatus, and blocking activation of the predetermined function based on no detection of the first external device.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the predetermined function comprises pivoting the display.
17. The method according to claim 10, further comprising identifying a function of the display apparatus corresponding to an attribute of content, and activating the identified function based on display of an image of the content.
18. The method according to claim 10, wherein content of the first content group and the second content group is obtained from the first external device, and content of the third content group and the fourth content group is obtained from the second external device.
</claims>
</document>
