<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K43/04,B07C5/344,G01N24/08,G01N33/08,G01R33/3415,G01R33/56,G01R33/561
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TECHNISCHE UNIVERSITAET MUENCHEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
AIGNER, MAXIMILIAN
GOMÉZ, PEDRO A.
HAASE, AXEL
HUBER, STEPHAN
JOOS, ALEXANDER
MOLINA-ROMERO, MIGUEL
SCHUSSER, BENJAMIN MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60327116
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Noninvasive Determining the Sex of an Embryo and the Fertility of a Bird's Egg
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a method of automated noninvasive determining the sex of an embryo of a bird's egg (14) as well as a corresponding apparatus. The method comprises the following steps: conveying a plurality of bird eggs (14) sequentially or in parallel into an NMR apparatus (18), subjecting the bird eggs (14) to an NMR measurement, to thereby determine, for each of said eggs (14), one or more NMR parameters associated with the egg (14) selected from the group consisting of a Ti relaxation time, a T2 relaxation time and a diffusion coefficient, forwarding said one or more NMR parameters, or parameters derived therefrom, to a classification module (38), said classification module (38) configured for determining, based on said one or more NMR parameters or parameters derived therefrom, a prediction of the sex of the embryo of the associated egg (14), and conveying said plurality of bird eggs (14) out of said NMR apparatus (18) and sorting the eggs (14) according to the sex prediction provided by said classification module (38).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of automated noninvasive determining the sex of an embryo of a bird's egg, comprising the following steps: conveying a plurality of bird eggs sequentially or in parallel into an NMR apparatus, subjecting the bird eggs to an NMR measurement, to thereby determine, for each of said eggs, one or more NMR parameters associated with the egg selected from the group consisting of a T1 relaxation time, a T2 relaxation time and a diffusion coefficient, wherein each of said parameters corresponds to a parameter value representative for a region of interest within the egg, or a parameter image of a region of said egg, in which parameter values are associated with corresponding pixels or voxels of the image, forwarding said one or more NMR parameters, or parameters derived therefrom, to a classification module, said classification module configured for determining, based on said one or more NMR parameters or parameters derived therefrom, a prediction of the sex of the embryo of the associated egg, and conveying said plurality of bird eggs out of said NMR apparatus and sorting the eggs according to the sex prediction provided by said classification module.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more NMR parameters comprise a set of two or more NMR parameters, of which at least one is selected from said group consisting of a T1 relaxation time, a T2 relaxation time and a diffusion coefficient.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said set of NMR parameters further comprises one or more of the following parameters: a T2* relaxation time, a T1ρ relaxation time, and a spin density associated with one or more of the nuclei 1H, 13C, 23Na, and 31P.
4. (canceled)
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said classification module is a machine learning module.
6. (canceled)
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said classification module is configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a linear classifier, said linear classifier being based on one or more of least square linear regression, nearest neighbors, logistic regression, separating hyper planes or perceptrons.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said classification module is configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a nonlinear classifier based on one of piecewise polynomials, splines, kernel smoothing, tree-based methods, support vector machines, random forest, boosting, additive and ensemble methods and graph models.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said classification module is configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a deep learning algorithm based on one of convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks and long short-term memory networks.
10. (canceled)
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the NMR measurement comprises NMR imaging, wherein an NMR imaging plane is arranged such as to intersect the location of the embryo.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said method is carried out prior to the eighth day of breeding.
13. 13-18. (canceled)
19. The method of claim 1, wherein said eggs are arranged in a regular pattern on a tray during said conveying and NMR measurement, wherein the number of eggs arranged on said tray is at least 36.
20. (canceled)
21. The method of claim 19, wherein said NMR apparatus comprises an array of RF coils for one or both of applying RF magnetic fields to the eggs located on the and for detecting NMR signals, said array of RF coils comprising one or more of a plurality of coils arranged in a plane located above the tray loaded with eggs when conveyed to the NMR apparatus, a plurality of coils arranged in a plane located underneath the tray loaded with eggs when conveyed to the NMR apparatus, a plurality of coils arranged in vertical planes extending between rows of eggs on the tray when conveyed to the NMR apparatus which rows extend in parallel with the conveying direction of the tray into and out of the NMR apparatus.
22. 22-24. (canceled)
25. An apparatus for automated noninvasive determining the sex of an embryo of a bird's egg, comprising: an NMR apparatus, a conveying device for conveying a plurality of bird eggs sequentially or in parallel into said NMR apparatus and out of said NMR apparatus, wherein said NMR apparatus is configured for subjecting the bird eggs to an NMR measurement, to thereby determine, for each of said eggs, one or more NMR parameters associated with the egg selected from the group consisting of a T1 relaxation time, a T2 relaxation time and a diffusion coefficient, wherein each of said parameters corresponds to a parameter value representative for a region of interest within the egg, or a parameter image of a region of said egg, in which parameter values are associated with corresponding pixels or voxels of the image, wherein said apparatus further comprises a classification module configured to receive said one or more NMR parameters, or parameters derived therefrom, said classification module configured for determining, based on said one or more NMR parameters or parameters derived therefrom, a prediction of the sex of the embryo of the associated egg, and an egg sorting device for sorting the eggs according to the sex prediction provided by said classification module.
26. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said one or more NMR parameters comprise a set of two or more NMR parameters, of which at least one is selected from said group consisting of a T1 relaxation time, a T2 relaxation time and a diffusion coefficient.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein said set of NMR parameters further comprises one or more of the following parameters: a T2* relaxation time, a T1ρ relaxation time, and a spin density associated with one or more of the nuclei 1H, 13C, 23Na, and 31P.
28. (canceled)
29. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said classification module is a machine learning module.
30. (canceled)
31. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said classification module is configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a linear classifier, wherein said linear classifier is based on one or more of least square linear regression, nearest neighbors, logistic regression, separating hyper planes and perceptrons.
32. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said classification module is configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a nonlinear classifier based on one of piecewise polynomials, splines, kernel smoothing, tree-based methods, support vector machines, random forest, boosting, additive and ensemble methods and graph models.
33. The apparatus of claim 25, wherein said classification module configured to determine the prediction of the sex of the embryo using a deep learning algorithm based on one of convolutional neural networks, recurrent neural networks and long short-term memory networks.
34. 34-40. (canceled)
41. The apparatus of claim 25, further comprising a tray on which said eggs can be arranged in a regular pattern during said conveying and NMR measurement, wherein the number of eggs that can be arranged on said tray is at least 36.
42. (canceled)
43. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein said NMR apparatus comprises an array of RF coils for one of applying RF magnetic fields to the eggs located on the tray and detecting NMR signals, said array of RF comprising one or more of a plurality of coils arranged in a plane located above the tray loaded with eggs when conveyed to the NMR apparatus, a plurality of coils arranged in a plane located underneath the tray loaded with eggs when conveyed to the NMR apparatus, a plurality of coils arranged in vertical planes extending between rows of eggs on the tray when conveyed to the NMR apparatus, which rows extend in parallel with the conveying direction of the into and out of the NMR apparatus.
44. The apparatus of claim 43, wherein the plurality of coils is arranged in a plane located above or underneath the tray loaded with eggs and the ratio of the number of coils to the number of eggs arranged on said tray is between 1:1 and 1:16.
45. The apparatus of claim 41, wherein said NMR apparatus comprises an array of RF coils for one or both of applying RF magnetic fields to the eggs located on the tray and detecting NMR signals, said array of RF coils being integrated with or attached to said tray.
46. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the tray comprises a plurality of dimples or pockets for receiving a corresponding egg, and wherein a number of coils is associated with each of said dimples or pockets, wherein said number of coils per dimple or pocket is at least 2.
</claims>
</document>
