<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B66B3/00,B66B3/02,B66B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MICHAELIDIS, YRINEE
PAHLKE, DERK OSCAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70110026
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELEVATOR SHAFT DISTRIBUTED HEALTH LEVEL
</title>

<abstract>
A method of monitoring a conveyance apparatus within a conveyance system including: detecting, using a sensing apparatus, at a first conveyance apparatus location at least one of an acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, temperature data of the conveyance system, and pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; determining a health level of the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; and displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of monitoring a conveyance apparatus within a conveyance system, the method comprising: detecting, using a sensing apparatus, at a first conveyance apparatus location at least one of an acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, temperature data of the conveyance system, and pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; determining a health level of the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; and displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a first identifier for the first conveyance apparatus location; and displaying first identifier for the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a current location of an individual within the conveyance system; and displaying the location of the individual within the conveyance system on the display device.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein prior to displaying the first identifier for the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device, the method further comprises: normalizing the first identifier for the first conveyance apparatus location to a standard value.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein determining a current location of an individual within the conveyance system, the method further comprises: detecting an ambient air pressure proximate the individual; and determining an elevation in response to the ambient air pressure.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein determining a current location of an individual within the conveyance system, the method further comprises: detecting a wireless signal of a mobile device being carried by an individual; determining received signal strength of the mobile device; and determining an elevation of the individual in response to the received signal strength of the mobile device.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein determining a current location of an individual within the conveyance system, the method further comprises: determining that the individual is currently located within the conveyance apparatus; determining a current location of the conveyance apparatus; and determining that the current location of the individual is equivalent to the current location of the conveyance apparatus.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting at a second conveyance apparatus location at least one of an acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, temperature data of the conveyance system, and pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; determining a health level of the conveyance system at the second conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; and displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the second conveyance apparatus location on the display device.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first conveyance apparatus location and the second conveyance apparatus location are two of a plurality of conveyance apparatus locations that are equidistantly spaced apart along the conveyance system.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining a second identifier for the second conveyance apparatus location; and displaying second identifier for the second conveyance apparatus location on the display device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein prior to displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the second conveyance apparatus location and the second identifier for the second conveyance apparatus location on a display device, the method further comprises normalizing the second identifier for the second conveyance apparatus location to a standard value.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the conveyance system is an elevator system and the conveyance apparatus is an elevator car.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the conveyance system is an elevator system and the conveyance apparatus is an elevator car, and wherein the first conveyance apparatus location and the second conveyance apparatus location are landings along an elevator shaft of the elevator system.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the conveyance system is an elevator system and the conveyance apparatus is an elevator car, and wherein the first conveyance apparatus location and the second conveyance apparatus location are locations between landings along an elevator shaft of the elevator system.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the sensing apparatus is located on an elevator door of the elevator car.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving, using a remote device, from the sensing apparatus the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus, wherein the remote device determines the health level of the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the sensing apparatus uses edge processing to pre-process the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus prior to being received by the remote device.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the sensing apparatus is located on the elevator car
19. A computer program product embodied on a non-transitory computer readable medium, the computer program product including instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: detecting, using a sensing apparatus, at a first conveyance apparatus location at least one of an acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, temperature data of the conveyance system, and pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; determining a health level of the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; and displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device.
20. A system for monitoring a conveyance apparatus within a conveyance system, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: detecting, using a sensing apparatus, at a first conveyance apparatus location at least one of an acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, temperature data of the conveyance system, and pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; determining a health level of the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location in response to at least one of the acceleration of the conveyance apparatus, the temperature data of the conveyance system, and the pressure data proximate the conveyance apparatus; and displaying the health level for the conveyance system at the first conveyance apparatus location on a display device.
</claims>
</document>
