<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/04,G10L13/08,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOUDHURY, Saurabh
SOOD, Gunjan
SUH, Eugene Y.
NIEHAUS, August Kathryn
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70968988
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROAD MAP FOR AUDIO PRESENTATION OF COMMUNICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system receives an instruction to initiate audio presentation of electronic communications for a recipient, and outputs an audio presentation responsive to the instruction. The audio presentation includes an initial portion that includes a presentation road map, and a subsequent portion that includes audible output of text content of a plurality of unreviewed electronic communications for the recipient. The presentation road map identifies an estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a computing system, the method comprising: receiving an instruction to initiate audio presentation of electronic communications for a recipient; and responsive to the instruction, outputting an audio presentation including an initial portion that includes a presentation road map, and a subsequent portion that includes audible output of text content of a plurality of unreviewed electronic communications for the recipient, wherein the presentation road map identifies an estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation is based on a feature of the text content of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the feature of the text content includes a word count or a character count of the text content.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: converting the text content of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications into audio data representing the audible output of the text content; and determining the estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation based on a feature of the audio data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the feature of the audio data includes an amount of the audio data or a duration of the audio data at a target presentation rate.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the estimated time identified by the presentation road map is a generalized time estimate; and wherein the method further comprises: determining an initial value for the estimated time; and selecting the generalized time estimate from a plurality of graduated generalized time estimates based on the initial value for the estimated time.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the estimated time is rounded to a generalized time estimate.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the presentation road map further identifies a quantity of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is a spoken command by a user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications are organized into a plurality of conversation threads each including a set of unreviewed, reply-linked electronic communications; and wherein the presentation road map further identifies a quantity of the plurality of conversation threads.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the unreviewed electronic communications have a presentation order within the subsequent portion of the audio presentation that includes presenting each unreviewed electronic communication of a conversation thread before presenting any unreviewed electronic communications of another conversation thread; and wherein the method further comprises presenting a thread summary as an audible output within the subsequent portion for each conversation thread before presenting one or more unreviewed electronic communications of the conversation thread, the thread summary identifying one or more of; a quantity of unreviewed electronic communications of the conversation thread, an estimated time to present the unreviewed electronic communications of the conversation thread, and/or a subject of the conversation thread.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the estimated time is determined further based on a duration of the thread summaries of the plurality of conversation threads within the audio presentation.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving a second instruction to advance the audio presentation; and responsive to the second instruction, advancing the audio presentation of the plurality of conversation threads from a current conversation thread to a subsequent conversation thread of the presentation order.
14. A computing system, comprising: an audio output interface to output audio via one or more audio speakers; a logic subsystem; and a storage subsystem having instructions stored thereon executable by the logic subsystem to: receive an instruction to initiate audio presentation of electronic communications for a recipient; and responsive to the instruction, output an audio presentation including: an initial portion that includes a presentation road map, and a subsequent portion that includes audible output of text content of a plurality of unreviewed electronic communications for the recipient, the presentation road map identifying an estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the instructions are further executable by the logic subsystem to: determine the estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation based on a feature of the text content of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications; wherein the feature of the text content includes a word count or a character count of the text content.
16. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the instructions are further executable by the logic subsystem to: convert the text content of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications into audio data representing the audible output of the text content; and determine the estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation based on a feature of the audio data; wherein the feature of the audio data includes an amount of the audio data or a duration of the audio data at a target presentation rate.
17. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications are organized into a plurality of conversation threads each including a set of unreviewed, reply-linked electronic communications; and wherein the presentation road map further identifies a quantity of the plurality of conversation threads.
18. The computing system of claim 17, wherein the unreviewed electronic communications have a presentation order within the subsequent portion of the audio presentation that includes presenting each unreviewed electronic communication of a conversation thread before presenting one or more unreviewed electronic communications of another conversation thread of the plurality of conversation threads; and wherein the instructions are further executable by the logic subsystem to: present a thread summary as an audible output within the subsequent portion for each conversation thread before presenting one or more unreviewed electronic communication of the conversation thread, the thread summary identifying one or more of: a quantity of unreviewed electronic communications of the conversation thread, an estimated time to present the unreviewed electronic communications of the conversation thread, and/or a subject of the conversation thread.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the instruction is a spoken command by a user.
20. A method performed by a computing system, the method comprising: receiving a first spoken command of a user to initiate audio presentation of electronic communications for a recipient; responsive to the first spoken command, outputting an audio presentation including: an initial portion that includes a presentation road map, and a subsequent portion that includes audible output of text content of a plurality of unreviewed electronic communications for the recipient, the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications organized into a plurality of conversation threads each including a set of unreviewed, reply-linked electronic communications; determining an estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation based on the text content of the plurality of unreviewed electronic communications, the presentation road map identifying the estimated time to present the subsequent portion of the audio presentation; receiving a second spoken command of a user to advance the audio presentation; and responsive to the second spoken command, advancing the audio presentation from an unreviewed electronic communication of a current conversation thread to an unreviewed electronic communication of a subsequent conversation thread of a presentation order of the plurality of conversation threads.
</claims>
</document>
