<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B21/04,G08B21/18,G08B6/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Pellegrini, John
</assignee>

<inventors>
Pellegrini, John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065808
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE FOR FACILITATING CORRECTING OF A POSTURE OF A USER
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a device comprising a user interface. The device is configured for facilitating correcting of a posture of a user based on an interaction between the user and the device through the user interface. Further, the device comprises at least one sensor configured for generating sensor data based on a spatial attribute of the device in relation to the user. Further, the device comprises a processing device configured for comparing the sensor data based on at least one predetermined criterion of the spatial attribute and generating a command based on the comparing of the sensor data. Further, the device comprises a storage device configured for storing the at least one predetermined criterion. Further, the device comprises an output indication device configured for generating at least one indication based on the command.
</abstract>

<claims>
The following is claimed:
1. A device comprising a user interface, wherein the device is configured for facilitating correcting of a posture of a user based on an interaction between the user and the device through the user interface, wherein the interaction facilitates communication between the device and the user through the user interface, wherein the device comprises: at least one sensor configured for generating sensor data based on a spatial attribute of the device in relation to the user, wherein the spatial attribute comprises at least one of a spatial position of the device in relation to the user and a spatial orientation of the device in relation to the user; a processing device communicatively coupled to the at least one sensor, wherein the processing device is configured for: comparing the sensor data based on at least one predetermined criterion of the spatial attribute; and generating a command based on the comparing of the sensor data; a storage device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the storage device is configured for storing the at least one predetermined criterion; and an output indication device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the output indication device is configured for generating at least one indication based on the command.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one light-emitting device, wherein the at least one indication comprises light, wherein the at least one light-emitting device is configured for generating the light based on the command.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one haptic motor, wherein the at least one indication comprises vibration, wherein the at least one haptic motor is configured for generating the vibration based on the command.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one sound generating device, wherein the at least one indication comprises sound, wherein the at least one sound generating device is configured for generating the sound based on the command.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the sensor data; generating at least one analytic data based on the analyzing, wherein the device further comprises a communication device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the communication device is configured for transmitting the at least one analytic data to at least one external device.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is configured for generating first sensor data based on a user spatial attribute of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the user spatial attribute comprises at least one of a user position of the user in relation to the user interface and a user orientation of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the processing device is configured for determining a spatial relationship between the user and the user interface, wherein the generating of the command is based on the determining.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing device is configured for generating a notification based on the determining, wherein the notification comprises a correctness of the spatial relationship between the user and the user interface, wherein the user interface comprises a presentation device configured for presenting the notification to the user.
8. The device of claim 1 further comprises at least one external device coupled with the processing device, wherein the at least one external device is configured for generating at least one information based on a posture of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the at least one information; and determining a correct posture of the user in relation to the user interface based on the analyzing of the at least one information, wherein the generating of the command is based on the determining of the correct posture.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one external device is detachably attachable to at least one body part of the user using at least one attachment.
10. The device of claim 1 further comprising at least one first sensor communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the at least one first sensor is configured for generating second sensor data based on at least one action performed by the user, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the second sensor data; and generating a first command based on the analyzing of the second sensor data, wherein the at least one sensor is associated with a first state and a second state, wherein the at least one sensor is configured for transitioning between the first state and the second state based on the first command, wherein the at least one sensor generates the sensor data in the first state and the at least one sensor does not generate the sensor data in the second state.
11. The device of claim 1 further comprises a communication device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the communication device is configured for: transmitting a plurality of questions to an output device of the user interface; receiving a plurality of information corresponding to the plurality of questions from an input device the user interface, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the plurality of information; determining at least one outcome based on the analyzing of the plurality of information; and generating the at least one predetermined criterion based on the determining, wherein the storing of the at least one predetermined criterion is based on the generating of the at least one predetermined criterion.
12. The device of claim 1 further comprising at least one dedicated mechanism detachably attached to the device, wherein the at least one dedicated mechanism is configured for detachably attaching the device to at least one object, wherein an object spatial attribute of the at least one object in relation to the user corresponds to the spatial attribute of the device.
13. A device comprising a user interface, wherein the device is configured for facilitating correcting of a posture of a user based on an interaction between the user and the device through the user interface, wherein the interaction facilitates communication between the device and the user through the user interface, wherein the device comprises: at least one sensor configured for generating sensor data based on a spatial attribute of the device in relation to the user, wherein the spatial attribute comprises at least one of a spatial position of the device in relation to the user and a spatial orientation of the device in relation to the user; a processing device communicatively coupled to the at least one sensor, wherein the processing device is configured for: comparing the sensor data based on at least one predetermined criterion of the spatial attribute; generating a command based on the comparing of the sensor data; analyzing the sensor data; and generating at least one analytic data based on the analyzing; a storage device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the storage device is configured for storing the at least one predetermined criterion of the spatial attribute; a communication device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the communication device is configured for transmitting the at least one analytic data to at least one external device; and an output indication device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the output indication device is configured for generating at least one indication based on the command.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one light-emitting device, wherein the at least one indication comprises light, wherein the at least one light-emitting device is configured for generating the light based on the command.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one haptic motor, wherein the at least one indication comprises vibration, wherein the at least one haptic motor is configured for generating the vibration based on the command.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the output indication device comprises at least one sound generating device, wherein the at least one indication comprises sound, wherein the at least one sound generating device is configured for generating the sound based on the command.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein the at least one sensor is configured for generating first sensor data based on a user spatial attribute of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the user spatial attribute comprises at least one of a user position of the user in relation to the user interface and a user orientation of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the processing device is configured for determining a spatial relationship between the user and the user interface, wherein the generating of the command is based on the determining.
18. The device of claim 13 further comprises at least one external device coupled with the processing device, wherein the at least one external device is configured for generating at least one information based on a posture of the user in relation to the user interface, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the at least one information; and determining a correct posture of the user in relation to the user interface based on the analyzing of the at least one information, wherein the generating of the command is based on the determining of the correct posture.
19. The device of claim 13 further comprising at least one first sensor communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the at least one first sensor is configured for generating second sensor data based on at least one action performed by the user, wherein the processing device is configured for: analyzing the second sensor data; and generating a first command based on the analyzing of the second sensor data, wherein the at least one sensor is associated with a first state and a second state, wherein the at least one sensor is configured for transitioning between the first state and the second state based on the first command, wherein the at least one sensor generates the sensor data in the first state and the at least one sensor does not generate the sensor data in the second state.
20. A portable electronic device comprising a display device, wherein the portable electronic device is configured for facilitating correcting of a posture of a user based on an interaction between the user and the portable electronic device through the display device, wherein the interaction facilitates communication between the portable electronic device and the user through the display device, wherein the portable electronic device comprises: at least one sensor configured for generating sensor data based on an orientation of the device in relation to a horizontal level, wherein the orientation comprises an angle of inclination in relation to the horizontal level; a processing device communicatively coupled to the at least one sensor, wherein the processing device is configured for: comparing the sensor data based on at least one predetermined orientation range, wherein the at least predetermined orientation range is between 60 degrees of inclination in relation to the horizontal level and 90 degrees of inclination in relation to the horizontal level; and generating a command based on the comparing of the sensor data; a storage device communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the storage device is configured for storing the at least one predetermined orientation range; and a haptic motor communicatively coupled with the processing device, wherein the haptic motor is configured for generating vibration based on the command.
</claims>
</document>
