<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06Q20/38,G06Q20/40,H04L9/00,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COX COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAROTHERS, MATTHEW EDWIN
Tang, Harry
Patel, Jignesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422449
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Secured Analytics Using Encrypted Data
</title>

<abstract>
Devices, systems, and methods are provided for performing secured analytics using encrypted data. The method may include receiving first data and second data, the first data and the second data being homomorphically encrypted, the first data associated with a first type of data, and the second data associated with a second type of data. The method may include retrieving third data associated with the first type of data, and retrieving fourth data associated with the second type of data. The method may include determining a first proximity between the first data and the third data, and determining a second proximity between the second data and the fourth data. The method may include determining, based on the first proximity and the second proximity, a risk score, and determining, based on the risk score, a fraudulent action associated with the first data and the second data.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by at least one processor of a device, first data and second data, the first data and the second data being homomorphically encrypted, the first data associated with a first type of data, and the second data associated with a second type of data; retrieving, by the at least one processor, third data associated with the first type of data, the third data being homomorphically encrypted; retrieving, by the at least one processor, fourth data associated with the second type of data, the fourth data being homomorphically encrypted; determining, by the at least one processor, a first proximity between the first data and the third data; determining, by the at least one processor, a second proximity between the second data and the fourth data; determining, by the at least one processor and based on the first proximity and the second proximity, a risk score associated with the first data and the second data; and determining, by the at least one processor and based on the risk score, a fraudulent action associated with the first data and the second data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data and the third data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the first proximity, and wherein the second data and the fourth data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the second proximity.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first data comprises first ciphertext, and wherein the second data comprises second ciphertext.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the first proximity is less than a threshold proximity; and determining, based on the first proximity being less than the threshold proximity, fifth data and sixth data, the fifth data and the sixth data associated with an account attribute, wherein determining the risk score is further based on a comparison of the fifth data to the sixth data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first data, the second data, and the fifth data are associated with a request to activate an account.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the fraudulent action indicates that the account is fraudulent.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the account attribute is a name or an address associated with the account.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data is associated with a social security number or a payment number.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data comprises first ciphertext, wherein the third data comprises second ciphertext, and wherein determining the first proximity comprises determining a Levenshtein-Damereau distance between the first ciphertext and the second ciphertext, and wherein the risk score is based on the Levenshtein-Damereau distance.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the risk score comprises determining that the Levenshtein-Damereau distance is less than a threshold distance.
11. A system comprising memory coupled to at least one processor, the at least one processor configured to: receive first data and second data, the first data and the second data being homomorphically encrypted, the first data associated with a first type of data, and the second data associated with a second type of data; retrieve third data associated with the first type of data, the third data being homomorphically encrypted; retrieve fourth data associated with the second type of data, the fourth data being homomorphically encrypted; determine a first proximity between the first data and the third data; determine a second proximity between the second data and the fourth data; determine, based on the first proximity and the second proximity, a risk score associated with the first data and the second data; and determine, based on the risk score, a fraudulent action associated with the first data and the second data.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first data and the third data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the first proximity, and wherein the second data and the fourth data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the second proximity.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first data comprises first ciphertext, and wherein the second data comprises second ciphertext.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that the first proximity is less than a threshold proximity; and determine, based on the first proximity being less than the threshold proximity, fifth data and sixth data, the fifth data and the sixth data associated with an account attribute, wherein to determine the risk score is further based on a comparison of the fifth data to the sixth data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the first data, the second data, and the fifth data are associated with a request to activate an account.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the fraudulent action indicates that the account is fraudulent.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the account attribute is a name or an address associated with the account.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the first data is associated with a social security number or a payment number.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving first data and second data, the first data and the second data being homomorphically encrypted, the first data associated with a first type of data, and the second data associated with a second type of data; retrieving third data associated with the first type of data, the third data being homomorphically encrypted; retrieving fourth data associated with the second type of data, the fourth data being homomorphically encrypted; determining a first proximity between the first data and the third data; determining a second proximity between the second data and the fourth data; determining, based on the first proximity and the second proximity, a risk score associated with the first data and the second data; and determining, based on the risk score, a fraudulent action associated with the first data and the second data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the first data and the third data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the first proximity, and wherein the second data and the fourth data remain homomorphically encrypted while determining the second proximity.
</claims>
</document>
