<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01S15/89,G01S15/93,G06F16/29,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, II, ALFRED CHARLES
OMARI, SAMMY
Whinnery, Joseph Patrick Wendell
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551202
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPROACHES FOR MAPPING GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can determine at least one potential route for navigating a vehicle within a geographic region. A score that measures a comfort level associated with the potential route can be determined, wherein the score is determined based on at least one sensor map that segments the geographic region into a grid of cells, and wherein the comfort level for the potential route is determined based at least in part on cells through which the vehicle travels while navigating along the potential route. A determination is made whether to use the potential route for navigating the vehicle based at least in part on the score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining, by a computing system, at least one potential route for navigating a vehicle within a geographic region; determining, by the computing system, a score that measures a comfort level associated with the potential route, wherein the score is determined based on at least one sensor map that segments the geographic region into a grid of cells, and wherein the comfort level for the potential route is determined based at least in part on cells through which the vehicle travels while navigating along the potential route; and determining, by the computing system, whether to use the potential route for navigating the vehicle based at least in part on the score.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor map is an acoustic map of the geographic region that measures acoustic properties associated with the geographic region, wherein the acoustic map segments the geographic region based on a grid of cells.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the score further comprises: determining, by the computing system, a set of cells in the acoustic map that represent the potential route; determining, by the computing system, respective acoustic fingerprints for the set of cells; and determining, by the computing system, the score measuring the comfort level for the potential route based at least in part on acoustic properties reflected in the acoustic fingerprints.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the score is determined based at least in part on a machine learning model that is trained to score routes based on acoustic properties.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: providing, by the computing system, an acoustic fingerprint corresponding to a first cell in the set of cells to the machine learning model; and obtaining, by the computing system, a score measuring a comfort level associated with a portion of the geographic region that is represented by the first cell.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the machine learning model is trained to recognize at least one of: a speed bump, an unpaved section, a pothole, debris, a bumpy road segment, a stop sign, a traffic control device, designated crosswalks, and textured crosswalks.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor map is an acceleration map of the geographic region that measures accelerative properties associated with the geographic region, wherein the acceleration map segments the geographic region based on a grid of cells.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein determining the score further comprises: determining, by the computing system, a set of cells in the acceleration map that represent the potential route; determining, by the computing system, respective acceleration fingerprints for the set of cells; and determining, by the computing system, the score measuring the comfort level for the potential route based at least in part on accelerative properties reflected in the acceleration fingerprints.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the score is determined based at least in part on a machine learning model that is trained to score routes based on accelerative properties.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the computing system, a respective score that measures a comfort level associated with a first lane and a second lane in the potential route, wherein the score is determined based on the at least one sensor map of the geographic region; and determining, by the computing system, whether to avoid the first lane or the second lane based at least in part on the scores.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: determining at least one potential route for navigating a vehicle within a geographic region; determining a score that measures a comfort level associated with the potential route, wherein the score is determined based on at least one sensor map that segments the geographic region into a grid of cells, and wherein the comfort level for the potential route is determined based at least in part on cells through which the vehicle travels while navigating along the potential route; and determining whether to use the potential route for navigating the vehicle based at least in part on the score.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one sensor map is an acoustic map of the geographic region that measures acoustic properties associated with the geographic region, wherein the acoustic map segments the geographic region based on a grid of cells.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the score further causes the system to perform: determining a set of cells in the acoustic map that represent the potential route; determining respective acoustic fingerprints for the set of cells; and determining the score measuring the comfort level for the potential route based at least in part on acoustic properties reflected in the acoustic fingerprints.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the score is determined based at least in part on a machine learning model that is trained to score routes based on acoustic properties.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the system to perform: providing an acoustic fingerprint corresponding to a first cell in the set of cells to the machine learning model; and obtaining a score measuring a comfort level associated with a portion of the geographic region that is represented by the first cell.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: determining at least one potential route for navigating a vehicle within a geographic region; determining a score that measures a comfort level associated with the potential route, wherein the score is determined based on at least one sensor map that segments the geographic region into a grid of cells, and wherein the comfort level for the potential route is determined based at least in part on cells through which the vehicle travels while navigating along the potential route; and determining whether to use the potential route for navigating the vehicle based at least in part on the score.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one sensor map is an acoustic map of the geographic region that measures acoustic properties associated with the geographic region, wherein the acoustic map segments the geographic region based on a grid of cells.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein determining the score further causes the computing system to perform: determining a set of cells in the acoustic map that represent the potential route; determining respective acoustic fingerprints for the set of cells; and determining the score measuring the comfort level for the potential route based at least in part on acoustic properties reflected in the acoustic fingerprints.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the score is determined based at least in part on a machine learning model that is trained to score routes based on acoustic properties.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the system to perform: providing an acoustic fingerprint corresponding to a first cell in the set of cells to the machine learning model; and obtaining a score measuring a comfort level associated with a portion of the geographic region that is represented by the first cell.
</claims>
</document>
