<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G05B13/02,G05B13/04,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIDIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MACKLIN, MILES
CHEBOTAR, YEVGEN
Issac, Jan
Fox, Dieter
Handa, Ankur
Ratliff, Nathan
Makoviichuk, Viktor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69779821
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIMULATION OF TASKS USING NEURAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
A machine-learning control system is trained to perform a task using a simulation. The simulation is governed by parameters that, in various embodiments, are not precisely known. In an embodiment, the parameters are specified with an initial value and expected range. After training on the simulation, the machine-learning control system attempts to perform the task in the real world. In an embodiment, the results of the attempt are compared to the expected results of the simulation, and the parameters that govern the simulation are adjusted so that the simulated result matches the real-world attempt. In an embodiment, the machine-learning control system is retrained on the updated simulation. In an embodiment, as additional real-world attempts are made, the simulation parameters are refined and the control system is retrained until the simulation is accurate and the control system is able to successfully perform the task in the real world.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: performing a simulation of a task; training, based at least in part on the result of the simulation, a machine learning model to be used by a robotic device to perform the task; obtaining feedback information as a result of the robotic device performing the task using the iteratively trained model until the task is performed by the robotic device substantially the same as in the simulation of the task; and training the machine learning model iteratively using the feedback information
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting the simulation so that simulation of the task matches the performance of the task; and retraining the machine learning model
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information comprises differences between an attempt to perform the task and the simulation of the task.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feedback information comprises differences between the simulation of the task and successful performance of the task.
5. A simulator comprising: a simulator to perform a simulation of one or more tasks in order to train a machine learning model to be used by a robotic device to perform the one or more tasks, wherein the machine learning model is to be iteratively trained based, at least in part, on feedback information provided as a result of the robotic device performing the task using the iteratively trained model until the task is performed by the robotic device substantially the same as in the simulation of the task.
6. The simulator of claim 5, wherein: the machine learning model includes a set of parameters that govern the simulation; and the set of parameters is adjusted in response to an attempt to perform the task such that a result of the simulation matches the result of the attempt to perform the task.
7. The simulator of claim 6, wherein the attempt is a failed attempt to perform the task.
8. The simulator of claim 6, wherein each parameter in the set of parameters is specified by a range of allowable values.
9. The simulator of claim 6, wherein a parameter in the set of parameters is adjusted by at least: changing the parameter; attempting to perform the task in the simulation; and determining if the result of the performance more closely resembles the result of the attempt to perform the task.
10. The simulator of claim 9, wherein the parameter is changed by at least: determining a measure that represents the difference between the performance of the task in the simulation and the attempt to perform the task; and determining a change to the parameter based on the square of the score.
11. The simulator of claim 5, wherein the simulator includes: a computer system with one or more processors; and non-transitory computer-readable storage media to store instructions that, as a result of being performed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to implement a model of the task.
12. The simulator of claim 6, wherein the set of parameters includes a parameter that represents friction.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: perform a simulation of one or more tasks in order to train a machine learning model to be used by a robotic device to perform the one or more tasks, wherein the machine learning model is to be iteratively trained based, at least in part, on feedback information provided as a result of the robotic device performing the task using the iteratively trained model until the task is performed by the robotic device substantially the same as in the simulation of the task.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: adjust one or more parameters of the simulation so that a result produced by the simulation matches a result of an attempt to perform the task in the real world.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the simulation is governed by a set of parameters; and a parameter in the set of parameters is adjusted based at least in part on differences between an attempt to perform the task in the real world and a result of the simulation.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to obtain, for each parameter in the set of parameters, information that specifies an allowable range and an initial value.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the machine learning model is trained until the task is successfully performed by the robotic device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein: the robotic device is a self-driving car; and the simulation models the operation of the car.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to determine a measure of road traction based at least in part on a parameter of the simulation.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: obtain a first measure of a result of the simulation; obtain a second measure of a result of an attempt to perform the task in the real world; and modify the simulation based on a difference between the first measure and the second measure.
</claims>
</document>
