<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIBSON ELIZABETH GOLDWYN
BLANCHARD, HARRY, E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055144
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR GENERATING A SEARCH QUERY FOR A SEARCH ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, detecting, by a processing system including a processor, access to a search engine by a user; obtaining a user model associated with the user; generating, by the processing system, a search query according to the user model; and presenting an overlay on a graphical user interface of the search engine, wherein the graphical user interface includes the search query field, and wherein the overlay includes the search query. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting access, by a user, to a search engine, wherein the access causes a search query field for the search engine to be presented at a display coupled to the device, and wherein a first entity that manages the search engine is identified and is distinct from a second entity that manages a user model associated with the user; and presenting a search query, wherein the search query is generated according to the user model associated with the user, a topic of interest for the user that is predicted according to the user model, and an identity of the first entity, wherein generating of the search query is performed prior to user input at the search query field, and wherein the user model is generated based on current events, demographics of the user, a search history of the user, a media consumption history of the user, or a combination thereof.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the generating of the search query comprises: monitoring search results generated by the search engine; and determining a bias of a search algorithm employed by the search engine according to the monitoring, wherein the generating the search query is based on mitigating the bias.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the generating the search query is performed without the device having knowledge of factors employed by the search algorithm, wherein the presenting the search query further comprises presenting an overlay on a graphical user interface of the search engine, wherein the graphical user interface includes the search query field, wherein the search query is a plurality of search queries, wherein the overlay includes selectable links for the plurality of search queries, and wherein the operations further comprise: populating the search query field with one of the plurality of search queries responsive to a selection of one of the selectable links.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein predicting the topic of interest is not based on the identity of the first entity, wherein the topic of interest is a group of topics of interest, wherein the search query is a plurality of search queries, wherein the generating the search query comprises generating a subset of the plurality of search queries for each of the group of topics of interest, wherein the presenting the search query further comprises presenting an overlay on a graphical user interface that includes the search query field, wherein the overlay includes the group of topics of interest and includes selectable links for the plurality of search queries, and wherein the operations further comprise: populating the search query field with one of the plurality of search queries responsive to a selection of one of the selectable links.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the user model is adjusted based on a history of recommended search queries that were selected by the user, and wherein the presenting the search query is via text at the display, audio signals, or a combination thereof.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the user model is adjusted based on a user activity, and wherein the user activity is based on a detected activity that the user is engaged in or has been engaged in within a particular time period prior to the detecting the access to the search engine.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the user model is generated based on the current events, the demographics of the user, the search history of the user, and the media consumption history of the user, wherein the search query is generated by the device, wherein the topic of interest is predicted by the device according to the user model, wherein the identity of the first entity is determined by the device, and wherein the user model is obtained from a remote server that operates as a consolidator device for obtaining the current events, the demographics of the user, the search history of the user, and the media consumption history of the user.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the user model is adjusted according to interaction of the user with search results returned by the search engine for the search query, and wherein the interaction is determined by: determining search result access by the user to the search results and determining a consumption time associated with the search result access.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the search query is a plurality of search queries, wherein the presenting the search query further comprises presenting selectable links for the plurality of search queries, and wherein the operations further comprise: populating the search query field with a first search query of the plurality of search queries responsive to a first selection of one of the selectable links, wherein the populating the search query field with the first search query facilitates the search engine generating first search results; populating the search query field with a second search query of the plurality of search queries responsive to a second selection of another one of the selectable links, wherein the populating the search query field with the second search query facilitates the search engine generating second search results; and presenting a portion of the first search results at the display in conjunction with a presentation of the second search results.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise presenting an overlay on a graphical user interface that includes the second search results, wherein the overlay includes the portion of the first search results.
11. A method, comprising: detecting, by a processing system including a processor, access to a search engine by a user, wherein the access causes a search query field for the search engine to be presented at a display; obtaining, by the processing system, a user model associated with the user, wherein the user model is generated based on current events, demographics of the user, a search history of the user, a media consumption history of the user, or a combination thereof; predicting, by the processing system, a topic of interest for the user according to the user model; generating, by the processing system, a search query according to the user model and the topic of interest; and presenting, by the processing system, an overlay on a graphical user interface of the search engine, wherein the graphical user interface includes the search query field, and wherein the overlay includes the search query.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the generating the search query comprises: monitoring search results generated by the search engine; and determining a bias of a search algorithm employed by the search engine according to the monitoring, wherein the generating the search query is based on mitigating the bias.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the overlay includes a selectable link for the search query, and further comprising: populating, by the processing system, the search query field with the search query responsive to a selection of the selectable link.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the generating the search query is performed prior to user input at the search query field, wherein the search query is a plurality of search queries, wherein the overlay includes selectable links for the plurality of search queries, and further comprising: populating, by the processing system, the search query field with one of the plurality of search queries responsive to a selection of one of the selectable links.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying, by the processing system, a first entity that manages the search engine, wherein the generating the search query is based on an identity of the first entity, and wherein the first entity is distinct from a second entity that manages the user model of the user.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the generating the search query is performed without having knowledge of factors employed by a search algorithm of the search engine.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising: presenting a portion of other search results generated from another search query in the overlay in conjunction with a presentation of search results generated from the search query.
18. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting access, by a user, to a search engine, wherein the access causes a search query field for the search engine to be presented at a display; obtaining a user model associated with the user, wherein the user model is generated based on current events, demographics of the user, a search history of the user, a media consumption history of the user, or a combination thereof; determining a user activity that the user is engaged in or has been engaged in within a particular time period prior to the detecting the access to the search engine; predicting a topic of interest for the user according to the user model and the user activity; generating a search query according to the user model and the topic of interest, wherein the generating the search query is performed prior to user input at the search query field; and presenting the search query.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the search query is a plurality of search queries, wherein the presenting the search query further comprises presenting an overlay on a graphical user interface that includes the search query field, wherein the overlay includes selectable links for the plurality of search queries, and wherein the operations further comprise: populating the search query field with one of the plurality of search queries responsive to a selection of one of the selectable links.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the user model is adjusted according to interaction of the user with search results returned by the search engine for the search query, wherein a determination of the interaction includes determining search result access by the user to the search results and determining a consumption time associated with the search result access.
</claims>
</document>
