<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06K9/72,G06N20/20,G06N5/04,G08B13/196,G08B29/18,H04N5/247
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMBIENT AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHRESTHA, SHIKHAR
KHANNA, VIKESH
CONNOR, JAMES DOUGLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71098574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MACHINE LEARNING ENHANCED INTELLIGENT BUILDING ACCESS ENDPOINT SECURITY MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for correlating access-system primitives generated by an access control system and semantic primitives generated by a sensor data comprehension system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating a plurality of access-system primitives by using an electronic access controller coupled to at least one access credential input device and at least one access point state sensor; generating a plurality of semantic primitives by using a comprehension system coupled to at least one sensor data source sensing at least a first access point controlled by the electronic access controller; identifying at least one contextual event by correlating at least one access-system primitive with at least one semantic primitive; classifying each contextual event to generate at least one contextual event classification; and performing at least one action in response to generation of at least one contextual event classification, wherein performing at least one action comprises at least one of providing an alert and controlling the electronic access controller.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying at least one contextual event by correlating at least one access-system primitive with at least one semantic primitive comprises: identifying at least one access-system primitive and at least one semantic primitive associated with the first access point controlled by the electronic access controller.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one semantic primitive associated with the first access point is generated from image data provided by a video camera arranged to capture image data of a scene that includes the first access point.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein classifying each contextual event comprises classifying a contextual event as one of a valid access-system security event and an access-system failure event, wherein each generated contextual event classification identifies at least one of a valid access-system security event and an access-system failure event.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein classifying each contextual event comprises classifying each contextual event by using a contextual security event model that identifies contextual events classified as contextual security events.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein contextual security events comprise at least one of: "compromised credential", "terminated employee", "unusual access pattern by validly credentialed employee", "tailgating", and "piggybacking".
7. The method of claim 5, wherein contextual security events comprise security events not recognized by the electronic access controller, the method further comprising: automatically generating the contextual security event model by performing autogenous correlation using at least one access-system primitive and at least one semantic primitive.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using the contextual security event model to detect compromising of a valid user credential when a correlation engine identifies access attempts to access points with the valid user credential at multiple distinct access points.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using the contextual security event model to detect site access by a terminated employee.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using the contextual security event model to detect a security threat based on an unusual access pattern to one or more access points by a validly credentialed employee.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: using the contextual security event model to detect tailgating by one or more users through an access point after a valid access credential is used to enable the access point for ingress by a credentialed user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a plurality of semantic primitives comprises: using a high-level feature detection model to extract high-level feature values from sensor data generated by the at least one sensor data source, and processing the high-level feature values by using each sub-model of a machine learning ensemble to generate the plurality of semantic primitives, the method further comprising: training the high-level feature extraction model based on output of each sub-model of the machine learning ensemble.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying at least one contextual event by correlating at least one access-system primitive with at least one semantic primitive comprises: generating a distinct access-system timeline that includes access-system primitives; generating a distinct comprehension system timeline that includes semantic primitives; and generating a unified event timeline that includes access-system primitives included in the access-system timeline and semantic primitives included in the comprehension system timeline.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: displaying a graphical representation of the unified event timeline, wherein classifying each contextual event comprises: generating a classification label based on one or more primitives included in the unified event timeline.
15. A system comprising: a sensor data comprehension system communicatively coupled to a plurality of video cameras arranged at a site; an electronic access controller communicatively coupled to at least one access point state sensor and at least one access credential input device for at least one access point of the site; the plurality of video cameras; the at least one access state sensor; the at least one credential input device; and a correlation engine communicatively coupled to the sensor data comprehension system and the electronic access controller, wherein the electronic access controller is constructed to generate a plurality of access-system primitives based on data provided by the at least one access credential input device and the at least one access point state sensor, wherein the sensor data comprehension system is constructed to generate a plurality of semantic primitives based on data provided by a video camera, of the plurality of video cameras, that generates image data of a scene that includes the at least one access point, wherein the correlation engine is constructed to: identify at least one contextual event by correlating at least one access-system primitive with at least one semantic primitive, classify each contextual event to generate at least one contextual event classification; and perform at least one action in response to generation of at least one contextual event classification.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the correlation engine includes at least one access event classifier that is contracted to classify a contextual event as one of a valid access-system security event and an access-system failure event.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the correlation engine includes at least one contextual security event model constructed to detect a compromised credential of a valid user when the correlation engine identifies access attempts to access points with the valid user credential at multiple distinct access points.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the correlation engine includes at least one contextual security event model constructed to detect a security threat based on an unusual access pattern to one or more access points by a validly credentialed employee.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the correlation engine includes at least one contextual security event model constructed to detect tailgating by one or more users through an access point after a valid access credential is used to enable the access point for ingress by a credentialed user.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the correlation engine includes at least one contextual security event model constructed to detect a site access by a terminated employee.
</claims>
</document>
