<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G67/04,B65G67/24,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRIM, CRAIG M.
KWATRA, SHIKHAR
GRIFFIN, ADAM LEE
Kozhaya, Joseph
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745504
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT VEHICLE DELIVERY
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for delivering a package is provided. The method includes receiving online order data comprising details associated with a product being ordered by a user. The online order data and environmental data associated with delivery of the product is analyzed and a resulting a travel route for delivering the product to a specified location of the user is generated. A delivery vehicle for delivering the product to the specified location of the user is selected and directed to a storage location of the product for loading. The delivery vehicle is directed from the storage location to the specified location of the user via the travel route. Delivery actions associated with the product with respect to the specified location are determined based on data indicating current environmental conditions. The delivery actions are executed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle delivery method comprising: receiving, by a computer processor of control hardware associated with controlling a plurality of delivery vehicles, online order data comprising details associated with a product being ordered by a user; analyzing, by the processor, said online order data and environmental data associated with delivery of said product; generating, by said processor based on results of said analyzing, a travel route for delivering said product to a specified location of said user; selecting, by said processor based on said results of said analyzing, a first delivery vehicle of said plurality of delivery vehicles for delivering said product to said specified location of said user; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle to a storage location of said product such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said storage location, wherein said product is loaded on said first vehicle upon arrival at said storage location; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle from said storage location to said specified location of said user, via said travel route, such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said specified location of said user; receiving, by said processor from sensors of said first delivery vehicle, data indicating current environmental conditions associated with said specified location; determining, by said processor based on said data indicating current environmental conditions, delivery actions associated with said product with respect to said specified location; and executing, by said processor based, said delivery actions.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said determining said delivery actions comprises: determining a risk score associated with said specified location based on an address verification process, a R-CNN contextualization process associated with stored delivery locations, historical data, an object recognition process, options for product placement, and a value of said product.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by said processor from said user, feedback data associated with said delivery actions; storing, by said processor within a specialized memory structure, said feedback data and said data indicating current environmental conditions; and generating, by said processor based on said feedback data and said data indicating current environmental conditions, self learning software code for executing future processes associated with said vehicle delivery method.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tracking, by said processor, a flight path of said first delivery vehicle associated with said travel route.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said executing said delivery actions comprises: determining that said package should not be delivered at said specified location; and directing said first delivery vehicle from said specified location of said user to said storage location, via said travel route, such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said storage location.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said executing said delivery actions comprises: determining that said package should be delivered at said specified location; and delivering said product to said user at said specified location.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a specified sublocation within said specified location; and determining that said user is currently located at said sublocation, wherein said delivering said product to said user at said specified location comprises delivering said product to said user at said sublocation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said data indicating current environmental conditions comprises audio and video data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said data indicating current environmental conditions comprises weather related data and congestion based data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said data indicating current environmental conditions is retrieved from said first delivery vehicle located within a specified perimeter surrounding said first delivery vehicle.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said online order data comprising details associated with a sensitivity and expense of said product being ordered by said user.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing at least one support service for at least one of creating, integrating, hosting, maintaining, and deploying computer-readable code in the control hardware, said code being executed by the computer processor to implement: said receiving said online order data, said analyzing, said generating, said selecting, said directing said first delivery vehicle to said storage location, said directing said first delivery vehicle from said storage location, said receiving said data, said determining said delivery actions, and said executing.
13. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable hardware storage device storing a computer readable program code, said computer readable program code comprising an algorithm that when executed by a computer processor of control hardware associated with controlling a plurality of delivery vehicles implements a vehicle delivery method, said method comprising: receiving, by said computer processor, online order data comprising details associated with a product being ordered by a user; analyzing, by said processor, said online order data and environmental data associated with delivery of said product; generating, by said processor based on results of said analyzing, a travel route for delivering said product to a specified location of said user; selecting, by said processor based on said results of said analyzing, a first delivery vehicle of said plurality of delivery vehicles for delivering said product to said specified location of said user; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle to a storage location of said product such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said storage location, wherein said product is loaded on said first vehicle upon arrival at said storage location; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle from said storage location to said specified location of said user, via said travel route, such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said specified location of said user; receiving, by said processor from sensors of said first delivery vehicle, data indicating current environmental conditions associated with said specified location; determining, by said processor based on said data indicating current environmental conditions, delivery actions associated with said product with respect to said specified location; and executing, by said processor based, said delivery actions.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said determining said delivery actions comprises: determining a risk score associated with said specified location based on an address verification process, a R-CNN contextualization process associated with stored delivery locations, historical data, an object recognition process, options for product placement, and a value of said product.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said method further comprises: receiving, by said processor from said user, feedback data associated with said delivery actions; storing, by said processor within a specialized memory structure, said feedback data and said data indicating current environmental conditions; and generating, by said processor based on said feedback data and said data indicating current environmental conditions, self learning software code for executing future processes associated with said vehicle delivery method.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said method further comprises: tracking, by said processor, a flight path of said first delivery vehicle associated with said travel route.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said executing said delivery actions comprises: determining that said package should not be delivered at said specified location; and directing said first delivery vehicle from said specified location of said user to said storage location, via said travel route, such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said storage location.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said executing said delivery actions comprises: determining that said package should be delivered at said specified location; and delivering said product to said user at said specified location.
19. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein said method further comprises: determining a specified sublocation within said specified location; and determining that said user is currently located at said sublocation, wherein said delivering said product to said user at said specified location comprises delivering said product to said user at said sublocation.
20. A control hardware device comprising a computer processor coupled to a computer-readable memory unit, said memory unit comprising instructions that when executed by the computer processor executes a vehicle delivery method comprising: receiving, by said computer processor, online order data comprising details associated with a product being ordered by a user; analyzing, by said processor, said online order data and environmental data associated with delivery of said product; generating, by said processor based on results of said analyzing, a travel route for delivering said product to a specified location of said user; selecting, by said processor based on said results of said analyzing, a first delivery vehicle of said plurality of delivery vehicles for delivering said product to said specified location of said user; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle to a storage location of said product such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said storage location, wherein said product is loaded on said first vehicle upon arrival at said storage location; directing, by said computer processor, said first delivery vehicle from said storage location to said specified location of said user, via said travel route, such that said first delivery vehicle initiates motion and travels to said specified location of said user; receiving, by said processor from sensors of said first delivery vehicle, data indicating current environmental conditions associated with said specified location; determining, by said processor based on said data indicating current environmental conditions, delivery actions associated with said product with respect to said specified location; and executing, by said processor based, said delivery actions.
</claims>
</document>
