<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIPRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOSABETTU, RAGHAVENDRA
KRISHNAPURA SUBBARAYA, PRASHANTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING PERFORMANCE OF AN ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to method and system for improving performance of an artificial neural network (ANN). The method may include generating a weight matrix comprising weights of neural nodes in a given layer for each layer of the ANN, determining a marginal contribution value of a given neural node for each neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer, executing an elimination decision for each neural node in each layer based on the corresponding marginal contribution value, determining a distributed surplus value of a given remaining neural node in a given layer based on the marginal contribution values of a coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer for each remaining neural node in each layer, and updating the weight matrix based on the distributed surplus value of each remaining neural node in each layer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of improving performance of an artificial neural network (ANN), the method comprising: for each layer of the ANN, generating, by an ANN improvement device, a weight matrix comprising a weight of each neural node in a given layer; for each neural node in the given layer, determining, by the ANN improvement device, a marginal contribution value of a given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer based on an input vector to the given layer and a modified weight matrix, wherein the modified weight matrix is derived from the weight matrix by replacing weight of the given neural node in the given layer with a predefined weight; executing, by the ANN improvement device, an elimination decision for each neural node in each layer based on the corresponding marginal contribution value; for each remaining neural node in each layer, determining, by the ANN improvement device, a distributed surplus value of a given remaining neural node in a given layer based on the marginal contribution values of a coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer and a number of remaining neural nodes in the given layer; and updating, by the ANN improvement device, the weight matrix based on the distributed surplus value of each remaining neural node in each layer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the weight matrix comprises building and training the ANN for a specific application.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the marginal contribution value of the given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer comprises a difference between an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the weight matrix for the given layer and an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node, wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer, and wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the predefined weight in the modified weight matrix is about zero.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein executing the elimination decision comprises removing a given neural node for which the corresponding marginal contribution value is less than an adaptive threshold value.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the adaptive threshold value is determined by the ANN improvement device based on the marginal contribution value of each neural node in the given layer, and wherein removing the given neural node comprises defining the weight of the given neural node as zero.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the distributed surplus value of the given remaining neural node comprises an average marginal contribution value of the coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the weight matrix comprises replacing the original weight of each remaining neural node in each layer with a corresponding distributed surplus value.
9. A system for improving performance of an artificial neural network (ANN), the system comprising: an ANN improvement device comprising at least one processor and a computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: for each layer of the ANN, generating a weight matrix comprising a weight of each neural node in a given layer; for each neural node in the given layer, determining a marginal contribution value of a given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer based on an input vector to the given layer and a modified weight matrix, wherein the modified weight matrix is derived from the weight matrix by replacing weight of the given neural node in the given layer with a predefined weight; executing an elimination decision for each neural node in each layer based on the corresponding marginal contribution value; for each remaining neural node in each layer, determining a distributed surplus value of a given remaining neural node in a given layer based on the marginal contribution values of a coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer and a number of remaining neural nodes in the given layer; and updating the weight matrix based on the distributed surplus value of each remaining neural node in each layer.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the marginal contribution value of the given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer comprises a difference between an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the weight matrix for the given layer and an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node, wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer, and wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein executing the elimination decision comprises removing a given neural node for which the corresponding marginal contribution value is less than an adaptive threshold value.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the adaptive threshold value is determined by the ANN improvement device based on the marginal contribution value of each neural node in the given layer, and wherein removing the given neural node comprises defining the weight of the given neural node as zero.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the distributed surplus value of the given remaining neural node comprises an average marginal contribution value of the coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein updating the weight matrix comprises replacing the original weight of each remaining neural node in each layer with a corresponding distributed surplus value.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer-executable instructions for improving performance of an artificial neural network (ANN), the computer-executable instructions configured for: for each layer of the ANN, generating a weight matrix comprising a weight of each neural node in a given layer; for each neural node in the given layer, determining a marginal contribution value of a given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer based on an input vector to the given layer and a modified weight matrix, wherein the modified weight matrix is derived from the weight matrix by replacing weight of the given neural node in the given layer with a predefined weight; executing an elimination decision for each neural node in each layer based on the corresponding marginal contribution value; for each remaining neural node in each layer, determining a distributed surplus value of a given remaining neural node in a given layer based on the marginal contribution values of a coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer and a number of remaining neural nodes in the given layer; and updating the weight matrix based on the distributed surplus value of each remaining neural node in each layer.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the marginal contribution value of the given neural node in the given layer with respect to other neural nodes in the given layer comprises a difference between an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the weight matrix for the given layer and an output loss of the ANN for the input vector based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node, wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the weight matrix for the given layer, and wherein the output loss of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node is a difference between the expected output vector of the ANN and an actual output vector of the ANN based on the modified weight matrix for the given layer with respect to the given neural node.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein executing the elimination decision comprises removing a given neural node for which the corresponding marginal contribution value is less than an adaptive threshold value.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the adaptive threshold value is determined by the ANN improvement device based on the marginal contribution value of each neural node in the given layer, and wherein removing the given neural node comprises defining the weight of the given neural node as zero.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the distributed surplus value of the given remaining neural node comprises an average marginal contribution value of the coalition of remaining neural nodes in the given layer.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein updating the weight matrix comprises replacing the original weight of each remaining neural node in each layer with a corresponding distributed surplus value.
</claims>
</document>
