<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04B17/309,H04B17/318,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE IOT PORTFOLIO 2016
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, MEHUL
DUFFY, JR., GERALD WILLIAM
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
MCGUCKIN, JEFFREY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR NOISE DETECTION AND REMOVAL IN A MIXER OR AGITATOR
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for noise detection and removal in a mixer/agitator are disclosed. An example monitoring system for data collection in an industrial environment may include a data collector coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points coupled to at least one of a mixer or an agitator and a data storage to store a plurality of stored system response patterns associated with noise detection during operation. The system may further include a data acquisition circuit to interpret a plurality of detection corresponding to the input channels and a data analysis circuit to remove a background noise from the detection values, analyze the collected data to determine a measured noise pattern; and compare the measured noise pattern to the stored system response patterns to determine an identified noise pattern.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system for data collection in an industrial environment, the monitoring system comprising: a data collector communicatively coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operationally coupled to at least one of a mixer or an agitator; a data storage structured to store a plurality of stored system response patterns associated with noise detection during operation of the at least one mixer or agitator; a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values from the collected data, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input channels; and a data analysis circuit structured to: remove a background noise from the plurality of detection values; analyze the collected data with the background noise removed to determine a measured noise pattern for the at least one mixer or agitator; and compare the measured noise pattern to the plurality of stored system response patterns to determine an identified noise pattern.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, further comprising a response circuit structured to modify data collection from at least one of the plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
3. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the response circuit is further structured to rebalance a load of an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
4. The monitoring system of claim 3, wherein the rebalancing achieves at least one of: an extended a life of the industrial component, an improved probability of success of a process of the industrial component, or facilitating maintenance on the industrial component.
5. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the response circuit is further structured to adjust a process of an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
6. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the response circuit is further structured to adjust an operating parameter of at least one component of the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
7. The monitoring system of claim 6, wherein the at least one component comprises at least one of a bearing, a tank housing, a driveshaft, a propeller, a blade, a baffle, a vane, a stator, an input line, or an output line.
8. A computer-implemented method for data collection in an industrial environment, the computer-implemented method comprising: collecting data from a plurality of input channels communicatively coupled to a data collector, the plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operationally coupled to at least one of a mixer or an agitator; storing a plurality of stored system response patterns in a data storage associated with noise detection during operation of the at least one mixer or agitator; interpreting a plurality of detection values from the collected data, wherein each of the plurality of detection values corresponds to at least one of the plurality of input channels; removing a background noise from the plurality of detection values; determining a measured noise pattern for the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the plurality of detection values remaining after removing the background noise; comparing the measured noise pattern to the plurality of stored system response patterns to determine an identified noise pattern; and modifying data collection from at least one of the plurality of input channels connected to data collection points operationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising rebalancing of loads of an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the rebalancing achieves at least one of an extended a life of the industrial component, improved probability of success of a process of the industrial component, or facilitating maintenance on the industrial component.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising adjusting a process of the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising adjusting an operating parameter of at least one component of the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the at least one component comprises at least one of a bearing, a tank housing, a driveshaft, a propeller, a blade, a baffle, a vane, a stator, an input line, or an output line.
14. An apparatus for monitoring data collection in an industrial environment, the apparatus comprising: a data collector communicatively coupled to a plurality of input channels connected to data collection points on at least one of a mixer or an agitator; a data storage structured to store a plurality of stored system response patterns associated with noise detection during operation of the at least one mixer or agitator; a data acquisition circuit structured to interpret a plurality of detection values from the collected data, each of the plurality of detection values corresponding to at least one of the plurality of input channels; a data analysis circuit structured to: remove a background noise from the plurality of detection values; determine a measured noise pattern for the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the collected data remaining after removing the background noise; and compare the measured noise pattern to the plurality of stored system response patterns to determine an identified noise pattern; and a response circuit structured to modify data collection from at least one input channel connected to data collection points operationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the response circuit is further structured to rebalance loads of an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the rebalancing achieves at least one of: an extended life of the industrial component, an improved probability of success of a process of the industrial component, or facilitating maintenance on the industrial component.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the response circuit is further structured to adjust a process of at least one of the mixer, the agitator, or an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the response circuit is further structured to adjust an operating parameter of an industrial component vibrationally coupled to the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the response circuit is further structured to adjust an operating parameter of at least one component of the at least one mixer or agitator in response to the identified noise pattern.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the at least one component comprises at least one of a bearing, a tank housing, a driveshaft, a propeller, a blade, a baffle, a vane, a stator, an input line, or an output line.
</claims>
</document>
