<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S7/295,G01S7/41,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NG, BOON LOONG
QIU, WENXUN
SEHGAL, ABHISHEK
VA, VUTHA
Gill, Kuldeep
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR RADAR BASED FACE AUTHENTICATION ANTI-SPOOFING
</title>

<abstract>
A method and electronic device for radar-based face authentication anti-spoofing for determining access to the electronic device. The electronic device includes a radar transceiver and at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to transmit, via the transceiver, a first set of signals, generate a channel impulse response (CIR) based on receipt of reflections of the first set of signals, detect a first CIR tap in the CIR, determine a selection of CIR data based on the detected first CIR tap, determine a profile matching metric based on comparison of the selection of CIR data to a set of predetermined reference signals, and determine whether to allow access to the electronic device based on comparison of the profile matching metric to a profile matching threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a radar transceiver; and at least one processor configured to: transmit, via the radar transceiver, a first set of signals; generate a channel impulse response (CIR) based on receipt of reflections of the first set of signals; detect a first CIR tap in the CIR; determine a selection of CIR data based on the detected first CIR tap; determine a profile matching metric based on comparison of the selection of CIR data to a set of predetermined reference signals; and determine whether to allow access to the electronic device based on comparison of the profile matching metric to a profile matching threshold.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine the set of predetermined reference signals based on radar reference signal data generated from a registration of a user, wherein determining the set of predetermined reference signals comprises: select a first reference signal from a candidate pool in the radar reference signal data; determine reference signal matching metrics between the first reference signal and other reference signals from the candidate pool; determine whether each of the reference signals matching metrics between the first reference signal and the other reference signals are greater than a reference signal matching threshold; and add the first reference signal to the set of predetermined reference signals when each of the reference signal matching metrics are greater than the reference signal matching threshold.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein to register the user, the at least one processor is configured to: transmit signals from the electronic device toward a user face, wherein while transmitting the signals the electronic device moves a range of distance in relation to the user face while the user face moves to a plurality of different angles.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: concatenate the selected CIR data by frames; calculate phase differences among the frames by performing phase differentiation on the concatenated CIR data; and determine a phase moving metric based on the calculated phase differences, wherein the determination of whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises determining to not allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being smaller than a phase moving threshold.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: concatenate the selected CIR data by frames; determine a phase of the selected CIR data; apply Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to the phase; and determine a phase moving metric, wherein the determination of whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises determining to not to allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being larger than a phase moving threshold.
6. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine a phase of the selected CIR data; and apply FFT to the phase, wherein the determination of whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises a neural network analysis of the profile matching metric, the calculated phase differences and a result of applying FFT to the phase.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the determination of whether to allow access to the electronic device is further based on a deep learning analysis of the CIR data.
8. A method to determine access to an electronic device comprising: transmitting, via a radar transceiver of the electronic device, a first set of signals; generating a channel impulse response (CIR) based on receipt of reflections of the first set of signals; detecting a first CIR tap in the CIR; determining a selection of CIR data based on the detected first CIR tap; determining a profile matching metric based on comparison of the selection of CIR data to a set of predetermined reference signals; and determining whether to allow access to the electronic device based on comparison of the profile matching metric to a profile matching threshold.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining the set of predetermined reference signals based on radar reference signal data generated from registering a user, wherein determining the set of predetermined reference signals comprises: selecting a first reference signal from a candidate pool in the radar reference signal data; determining reference signal matching metrics between the first reference signal and other reference signals from the candidate pool; determining whether each of the reference signals matching metrics between the first reference signal and the other reference signals are greater than a reference signal matching threshold; and adding the first reference signal to the set of predetermined reference signals when each of the reference signal matching metrics are greater than the reference signal matching threshold.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein registering the user comprises: transmitting signals from the electronic device toward a user face, wherein while transmitting the signals the electronic device moves a range of distance in relation to the user face while the user face moves to a plurality of different angles.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: concatenating the selected CIR data by frames; calculating phase differences among the frames by performing phase differentiation on the concatenated CIR data; and determining a phase moving metric based on the calculated phase differences, wherein determining whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises determining to not allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being smaller than a phase moving threshold.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: concatenating the selected CIR data by frames; determining a phase of the selected CIR data; applying Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to the phase; and determining a phase moving metric, wherein determining whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises determining to not to allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being larger than a phase moving threshold.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a phase of the selected CIR data; and applying FFT to the phase, wherein determining whether to allow access to the electronic device comprises a neural network analysis of the profile matching metric, the calculated phase differences and a result of applying FFT to the phase.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining whether to allow access to the electronic device is further based on a deep learning analysis of the CIR data.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium configured to store a plurality of instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of an electronic device is configured to cause the at least one processor to: transmit, via a radar transceiver of the electronic device, a first set of signals; generate a channel impulse response (CIR) based on receipt of reflections of the first set of signals; detect a first CIR tap in the CIR; determine a selection of CIR data based on the detected first CIR tap; determine a profile matching metric based on comparison of the selection of CIR data to a set of predetermined reference signals; and determine whether to allow access to the electronic device based on comparison of the profile matching metric to a profile matching threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to: determine the set of predetermined reference signals based on radar reference signal data generated from a registration of a user, wherein determining the set of predetermined reference signals comprises: select a first reference signal from a candidate pool in the radar reference signal data; determine reference signal matching metrics between the first reference signal and other reference signals from the candidate pool; determine whether each of the reference signals matching metrics between the first reference signal and the other reference signals are greater than a reference signal matching threshold; and add the first reference signal to the set of predetermined reference signals when each of the reference signal matching metrics are greater than the reference signal matching threshold.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the plurality of instructions further comprises instructions for the registration of the user that when executed cause the at least processor to: transmit signals from the electronic device toward a user face, wherein while transmitting the signals the electronic device moves a range of distance in relation to the user face while the user face moves to a plurality of different angles.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to: concatenate the selected CIR data by frames; calculate phase differences among the frames by performing phase differentiation on the concatenated CIR data; and determine a phase moving metric based on the calculated phase differences, wherein the plurality of instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to determine whether to allow access to the electronic device comprise instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to: determine to not allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being smaller than a phase moving threshold.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to: concatenate the selected CIR data by frames; determine a phase of the selected CIR data; apply Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) to the phase; and determine a phase moving metric, wherein the plurality of instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to determine whether to allow access to the electronic device comprise instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to: determine to not to allow access to the electronic device based on the phase moving metric being larger than a phase moving threshold.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to: determine a phase of the selected CIR data; and apply FFT to the phase, wherein the plurality of instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to determine whether to allow access to the electronic device comprise instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to: apply a neural network analysis to the profile matching metric, the calculated phase differences and a result of the application of FFT to the phase.
</claims>
</document>
