<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/16,H01L43/02,H01L43/10,H01L43/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, SHY-JAY
SONG, MINGYUAN
YU, Chwen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68533050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE WITH ASYMMETRICAL PINNED MAGNETS, AND METHOD OF MANUFACTURE
</title>

<abstract>
A device is provided that includes a semiconductor substrate on which a free magnetic element is positioned, which has first and second magnetic domains separated by a domain wall. A first magnet is positioned on the substrate near a first end of the free magnetic element, and has a first polarity and a first value of coercivity. A second magnet is positioned on the substrate near a second end of the free magnetic element, and has a second polarity, antiparallel relative to the first polarity, and a second value of coercivity different from the first value of coercivity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: forming a free magnetic element on a semiconductor substrate; forming a first magnet on the substrate adjacent to a first end of the free magnetic element and having a first polarity and a first value of coercivity; and forming a second magnet on the substrate adjacent to a second end of the free magnetic element and having a second polarity, antiparallel relative to the first polarity, and having a second value of coercivity, different from the first value of coercivity.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a tunneling barrier layer on the free magnetic layer; forming a third magnet on the tunneling barrier layer, and configuring the first third magnet, the free magnetic element, and the tunneling barrier layer such that an electric current passing through the tunneling barrier layer between the third magnet and the free magnetic element is limited by a tunnel magneto resistance whose ohmic value is determined by a position of a domain wall within the free magnetic element.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising: forming a write element positioned on the substrate on a side of the free magnetic element opposite the third magnet.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the write element is positioned on the substrate and between the substrate and the free magnetic element, and the free magnetic element is positioned, at least in part, between the write element and the third magnet.
5. The method of claim 2, comprising applying an electric current passing with a first polarity through the write element to move the domain wall away from the first magnet and toward the second magnet.
6. The method of claim 2, comprising applying an electric current passing with a second polarity, opposite the first polarity, through the write element to move the domain wall away from the second magnet and toward the first magnet.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second magnets are formed to have a same material, a same thickness, and different aspect ratios.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second magnets are made of a compound including cobalt, iron, and boron.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the first value of coercivity is in a range between 500 Oe and 100 Oe, and the second value of coercivity is in a range between 1500 Oe and 3000 Oe.
10. A method, comprising: magnetically saturating first and second magnetic elements on a substrate at a first polarity by exposing the first and second magnetic elements to a first magnetic field having a first flux density; and remagnetizing the first magnetic element at a second magnetic polarity antiparallel to the first polarity without changing the polarity of the second magnetic element by exposing the first and second magnetic elements to a second magnetic field having a second flux density, less than the first flux density.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the exposing the first and second magnetic elements to a second magnetic field having a second flux density, less than the first flux density comprises exposing the first and second magnetic elements to a second magnetic field having a second flux density that exceeds a coercivity of the first magnetic element but does not exceed a coercivity of the second magnetic element.
12. A method, comprising: forming, over a semiconductor substrate, a free magnetic element; forming a first magnet over the free magnetic element, the first magnet having a first value of coercivity; and forming a second magnet over the free magnetic element, the second magnet having a second value of coercivity different from the first value of coercivity.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein: the forming the first magnet includes forming the first magnet with a first polarity; and the forming the second magnet includes forming the second magnet with a second polarity, antiparallel with respect to the first polarity.
14. The method of claim 12, comprising: forming a third magnet over the substrate adjacent to the free magnetic element; and forming a tunneling barrier layer between the free magnetic element and the third magnet.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the forming the free magnetic element, the forming the first magnet, the forming the second magnet, the forming the third magnet and the forming the tunneling barrier layer together comprise: depositing a first CoFeB layer on the semiconductor substrate; depositing a MgO layer over the first CoFeB layer; depositing a second CoFeB layer; depositing an electrode layer; defining the third magnet to include a portion of each of the second CoFeB layer and the electrode layer; defining the tunneling barrier layer to include a portion of the MgO layer; and defining the free magnetic element to include a portion of the first CoFeB layer.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein: the defining the third magnet and the defining the tunneling barrier layer together comprise performing a first etch that defines the third magnet and the tunneling barrier layer in a first stack; and the defining the free magnetic element comprises performing a second etch that defines the free magnetic element in the first CoFeB layer, with the first stack positioned thereon.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the forming the first magnet and the forming the second magnet together comprise defining the first and second magnets and include performing the first etch, which defines the first and second magnets in second and third stacks, respectively, each of the second and third stacks being positioned on the free magnetic element and including respective portions of the MgO layer, the second CoFeB layer, and the electrode layer.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the forming the first magnet and the forming the second magnet together comprise: depositing a third CoFeB layer over the free magnetic element; and defining the first and second magnets, including performing a third etch that defines the first and second magnets in second and third stacks, respectively, each of the second and third stacks being positioned on the free magnetic element and including respective portions of the third CoFeB layer.
19. The method of claim 16 wherein the forming the first magnet and the forming the second magnet together comprise: performing the second etch which includes defining the first and second magnets in the first CoFeB layer with the free magnetic element.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising: depositing a heavy metal layer between the semiconductor substrate and the first CoFeB layer; depositing an antiferromagnetic layer between the second CoFeB layer and the electrode layer; and depositing a capping layer between the antiferromagnetic layer and the electrode layer.
</claims>
</document>
