<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F8/38,G06F9/451
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSS, MARTIN A.
CLARKE, JACQUELINE
WALTER, CLAUDIA
STRUGNELL, STEPHANIE J.
COPPEN, KIRSTIN E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63670495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED USER INTERFACE ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments provide automated techniques for evaluation of a user interface of a computer application. A computer function associated with a graphical element such as an icon or button is analyzed. The resultant text that appears as a result of invoking the button is analyzed and keywords are identified to determine a function type for the function. A graphical element category is determined for the button/icon that is invoked to produce the function. The graphical element category can be determined by analyzing underlying markup code for the button. Keywords pertaining to the button may be extracted from the markup code. The keywords from the button are compared with the keywords of the resulting function and a score is generated based on the amount of common keywords. The score is used as a criterion for a recommendation about the appropriateness of the button for use with the application function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for user interface evaluation, comprising: analyzing a computer program function associated with an icon, wherein the icon is a graphical element, included as part of a program, that when invoked, causes execution of the computer program function; determining a function type for the computer program function; analyzing the icon using image analysis; identifying objects, shapes, or colors based on the image analysis; comparing the identified objects, shapes, or colors to a database of icons stored with associated keywords; determining a graphical element category for the icon, wherein the graphical element category is derived from an analysis of underlying markup code for the icon; obtaining graphical element category keywords; obtaining function type keywords, and a total number of function type keywords; determining a number of matched keywords, wherein each matched keyword is both a graphical element category keyword and a function type keyword; performing a consistency check between the graphical element category and the function type; determining, based on the consistency check, a consistency score, wherein the consistency score is computed by dividing the number of matched keywords by the total number of function type keywords; and providing a recommendation report regarding the use of the icon, based on the consistency score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the function type comprises performing a natural language processing process to identify one or more function type keywords.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the graphical element category comprises performing a computer-implemented image recognition process on the graphical element.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommendation report includes the consistency score.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accepting a user override for a recommendation included in the recommendation report; and recording the user override.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising adjusting the recommendation in response to receiving a predetermined amount of user overrides.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a stylistic consistency check of the graphical element.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein performing the stylistic consistency check comprises performing a color analysis.
9. An electronic device for user interface evaluation comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor, the memory containing instructions, that when executed by the processor, perform the steps of: analyzing a computer program function associated with an icon, wherein the icon is a graphical element, included as part of a program, that when invoked, causes execution of the computer program function; determining a function type for the computer program function; analyzing the icon using image analysis; identifying objects, shapes, or colors based on the image analysis; comparing the identified objects, shapes, or colors to a database of icons stored with associated keywords; determining a graphical element category for the icon, wherein the graphical element category is derived from an analysis of underlying markup code for the icon; obtaining graphical element category keywords; obtaining function type keywords, and a total number of function type keywords; determining a number of matched keywords, wherein each matched keyword is both a graphical element category keyword and a function type keyword; performing a consistency check between the graphical element category and the function type; determining, based on the consistency check, a consistency score, wherein the consistency score is computed by dividing the number of matched keywords by the total number of function type keywords; and providing a recommendation report regarding the use of the icon, based on the consistency score.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the memory further contains instructions, that when executed by the processor, performs a natural language processing process to identify one or more function type keywords to determine the function type.
11. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein determining the graphical element category comprises performing a computer-implemented image recognition process on the graphical element.
12. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the recommendation report includes the consistency score.
13. The electronic device of claim 9, further comprising: accepting a user override for a recommendation included in the recommendation report; and recording the user override.
14. The electronic device of claim 13, wherein the memory further contains instructions, that when executed by the processor, adjusts the recommendation in response to receiving a predetermined amount of user overrides.
15. The electronic device of claim 13, wherein the memory further contains instructions, that when executed by the processor, performs a stylistic consistency check of the graphical element.
16. A computer program product for performing user interface evaluation on an electronic computing device, the electronic computing device comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the electronic computing device to: analyze a computer program function associated with an icon, wherein the icon is a graphical element, included as part of a program, that when invoked, causes execution of the computer program function; determine a function type for the computer program function; analyze the icon using image analysis; identify objects, shapes, or colors based on the image analysis; compare the identified objects, shapes, or colors to a database of icons stored with associated keywords; determine a graphical element category for the icon, wherein the graphical element category is derived from an analysis of underlying markup code for the icon; obtain graphical element category keywords; obtain function type keywords, and a total number of function type keywords; determine a number of matched keywords, wherein each matched keyword is both a graphical element category keyword and a function type keyword; perform a consistency check between the graphical element category and the function type; determine, based on the consistency check, a consistency score, wherein the consistency score is computed by dividing the number of matched keywords by the total number of function type keywords; and provide a recommendation report regarding the use of the icon, based on the consistency score.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the electronic computing device to: accept a user override for a recommendation included in the recommendation report; and record the user override.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the electronic computing device to adjust the recommendation in response to receiving a predetermined amount of user overrides.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the electronic computing device to perform a stylistic consistency check of the graphical element.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein performing the stylistic consistency check comprises performing a color analysis.
</claims>
</document>
