<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/212,A63F13/215,A63F13/67,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G10L15/18,G10L15/26,G10L25/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELECTRONIC ARTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGHDAIE, NAVID
ZAMAN, KAZI ATIF-UZ
AGARWAL, TUSHAR
JIN, YU
GANESHAN, PREETHI
KOLEN, JOHN
SUMANT, CHINMAY MUKUND
NARRAVULA, SUNDEEP
Victor, Nitish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensory-based dynamic game-state configuration
</title>

<abstract>
Systems presented herein may automatically and dynamically modify a video game being played by a user based at least in part on a determined or predicted emotional state of a user. Using one or more machine learning algorithms, a parameter function can be generated that uses sensory and/or biometric data obtained by monitoring a user playing a video game. Based on the sensory and/or biometric data, an emotional state of the user can be predicted. For example, it can be determined whether a user is likely to be bored, happy, or frightened while playing the video game. Based at least in part on the determination of the user's emotional state, the video game can be modified to improve positive feelings and reduce negative feelings occurring in response to the video game.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: as implemented by an interactive computing system configured with specific computer-executable instructions, receiving a set of sensory data from a user playing a video game; using a first prediction model, determining a predicted emotional state for the user based at least in part on the set of sensory data; based at least in part on the predicted emotional state for the user, determining a first modification to a state of the video game; and modifying the state of the video game based at least in part on the determined first modification to the state of the video game.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of sensory data comprises one or more types of sensory data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of sensory data comprises biometric data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of sensory data comprises at least one of audio data; visual data; heart rate data; respiratory rate data; or galvanic skin response data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a set of signals corresponding to one or more sensors; and converting the set of signals to obtain the set of sensory data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining a predicted churn rate for the user by at least applying the predicted emotional state of the user to a second prediction model, wherein determining the first modification to the state of the video game comprises determining the first modification to the state of the video game based at least in part on the predicted churn rate.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the predicted emotional state comprises: providing the set of sensory data to a parameter function, the parameter function generated based at least in part on a machine learning algorithm; and determining the predicted emotional state based at least in part on an output of the parameter function.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising generating the parameter function by at least: accessing a second set of sensory data, the second set of sensory data associated with a plurality of users who play the video game and corresponding to one or more emotional states; and using the machine learning algorithm to determine the parameter function based at least in part on the second set of sensory data and the corresponding one or more emotional states.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the sensory data includes audio data comprising speech and the method further comprises: converting the speech to text; determining a tone of the speech; and performing a semantic analysis of the speech, wherein determining the predicted emotional state for the user comprises providing the tone of the speech and a result of the semantic analysis of the speech to the first prediction model.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the sensory data comprises a plurality of types of sensory data, and wherein the first prediction model weights at least one type of sensory data differently than at least one other type of sensory data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the first modification to the state of the video game comprises: determining a plurality of potential video game state modifications, each potential video game state modification associated with changing an emotional state of the user from a first emotional state to a second emotional state; determining a desired emotional state for the user; and selecting, from the plurality of potential video game state modifications, the first modification to the state of the video game that is associated with changing the emotional state of the user from the predicted emotional state to the desired emotional state.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein, subsequent to modifying the state of the video game, the method further comprises: receiving a second set of sensory data from the user playing the video game; using the first prediction model, determining a second predicted emotional state for the user based at least in part on the second set of sensory data; based at least in part on the second predicted emotional state for the user, determining a second modification to the state of the video game; and modifying the state of the video game based at least in part on the determined second modification to the state of the video game.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the second modification to the state of the video game reverts the state of the video game to a previous state of the video game when it is determined that the second predicted emotional state of the user is further from a desired emotional state than the predicted emotional state for the user.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the second modification to the state of the video game is associated with a contrary modification to the state of the video game than the first modification of the state of the video game.
15. A system comprising: an electronic data store configured to store sensory data with respect to a video game; and a hardware processor in communication with the electronic data store, the hardware processor configured to execute specific computer-executable instructions to at least: receive a set of sensory data from a user playing the video game; use a first prediction model to determine a predicted emotional state for the user based at least in part on the set of sensory data; based at least in part on the predicted emotional state for the user, determine a first modification to a state of the video game; and modify the state of the video game based at least in part on the determined first modification to the state of the video game.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine the first modification to the state of the video game by determining a modified seed value for a portion of the video game, the modified seed value differing from an existing seed value previously determined to be applied to the portion of the video game, and wherein the hardware processor is further configured to modify the state of the video game by replacing the existing seed value with the modified seed value.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine a predicted churn rate for the user by at least applying the predicted emotional state of the user to a second prediction model, wherein determining the first modification to the state of the video game comprises determining the first modification to the state of the video game based at least in part on the predicted churn rate.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein determining the predicted emotional state comprises: providing the set of sensory data to a parameter function, the parameter function generated based at least in part on a machine learning algorithm; and determining the predicted emotional state based at least in part on an output of the parameter function.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to generate the parameter function by at least: accessing a second set of sensory data, the second set of sensory data associated with a plurality of users who play the video game and corresponding to one or more emotional states; and using the machine learning algorithm to determine the parameter function based at least in part on the second set of sensory data and the corresponding one or more emotional states.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine the first modification to the state of the video game by at least: determining a plurality of potential video game state modifications, each potential video game state modification associated with changing an emotional state of the user from a first emotional state to a second emotional state; determining a desired emotional state for the user; and selecting, from the plurality of potential video game state modifications, the first modification to the state of the video game that is associated with changing the emotional state of the user from the predicted emotional state to the desired emotional state.
</claims>
</document>
