<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06N20/00,G06T19/00,H04L9/14,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEYOND IMAGINATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kloor, Harry
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOBILITY SURROGATES
</title>

<abstract>
A mobility surrogate includes a humanoid form supporting at least one camera that captures image data from a first physical location in which the first mobility surrogate is disposed to produce an image signal and a mobility base. The mobility base includes a support mechanism, with the humanoid form affixed to the support on the mobility base and a transport module that includes mechanical drive mechanism and a transport control module including a processor and memory that are configured to receive control messages from a network and process the control messages to control the transport module according to the control messages received from the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobility surrogate comprising: a humanoid form supporting at least one camera that captures image data from a first physical location in which the first mobility surrogate is disposed to produce an image signal; and a mobility base that comprises: a support mechanism, with the humanoid form affixed to the support on the mobility base; and a transport module comprising: mechanical drive mechanism; and a transport control module comprising: a processor and memory that are configured to receive control messages from a network; and process the control messages to control the transport module according to the control messages received from the network.
2. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 further comprising: an artificial intelligence system that includes a processor device, memory and storage that stores computer instructions to cause an artificial intelligence engine to train the mobility surrogate, with the artificial intelligence engine executing computer instructions to: observe actions of a human performing a given task in the real world; analyze observed actions of the human to produce sequences of actions for the given task; and package the analyzed actions into a sequence package that is stored in computer storage.
3. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 wherein the artificial intelligence engine operates with a database.
4. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 wherein the artificial intelligence engine evolves to perform the tasks using the mobility surrogate.
5. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 wherein the actions are analyzed and used to train the artificial intelligence engine in the real world, rather than via a training program.
6. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 wherein the artificial intelligence engine is a mechanism that assists the human's control of the task.
7. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 further comprises instructions to: train the artificial intelligence engine by observing the users actions.
8. The mobility surrogate of claim 1 wherein training comprises instructions to: define a self-organizing map space as a finite two dimensional region of nodes, where the nodes are arranged in a grid; and associate each node in the grid with a weight vector that is a position in the input space.
9. The mobility surrogate of claim 8 wherein training further comprises instructions to: apply a training example to the self-organizing map; randomize the node weight factors in the map; select a training vector randomly from training data input; and compute a given training vector's distance from each node in the map; and compare the node whose weight is closest to that of the training example as the best matching unit.
10. The mobility surrogate of claim 2 wherein the artificial intelligence engine is configured to: learn the task to reduce or eliminate latency or delay time or to increase efficiency or reliability of performing the task.
11. The mobility surrogate of claim 10 wherein the delays are bidirectional and can result from propagating of instructions through electronic equipment and communication, networks used to transmit the instructions and the processing time to execute instructions
12. The mobility surrogate of claim 2 wherein the artificial intelligence engine is built using a self-organizing map or self-organizing feature map, which are types of artificial neural networks trained by unsupervised learning techniques to produce a low-dimensional discretized representation of an input space of training samples.
13. The mobility surrogate of claim 10, further comprises: a data center that is configured to accumulate and store skills sets for use with the artificial intelligence engine.
14. The mobility surrogate of claim 13 wherein the artificial intelligence engine downloads the skill sets from the data center.
15. The mobility surrogate of claim 10, further comprises: a platform that connects an operator to the mobility surrogate via a network; and a sensor user interface link.
16. The mobility surrogate of claim 2 further comprising: an alias-substitution processing module comprising: a processor configured to: receive an image signal; detect a second mobility surrogate in the image signal; and replace the image data of the second surrogate in the first physical location, with image data of a user in the first physical location to form a transformed image
17. A virtual reality encounter system comprising: a mobility surrogate in a first physical location, the mobility surrogate comprising: a humanoid form supporting at least one camera that captures image data from a first physical location in which the first mobility surrogate is disposed to produce an image signal; and a mobility base with the humanoid form attached to the mobility base; and a user control device in a second, different physical location, the user control device configured to control the mobility surrogate.
18. The virtual reality encounter system of claim 17 wherein the mobility surrogate is a first mobility surrogate, the user control device is a first user control device and the system further comprising: a second mobility surrogate that is in the second first physical location, the second the mobility surrogate comprising: a humanoid form; and a mobility base that comprise a support and a transport module, with the humanoid form attached to the mobility base; and a second user control device in the first physical location, the user control device configured to control the first mobility surrogate.
19. The virtual reality encounter system of claim 17, further comprising: an alias-substitution processing module comprising: a processor configured to: receive an image signal; detect the second mobility surrogate in the image signal; and replace the image data of the second surrogate in the first physical location, with image data of a user in the first physical location to form a transformed image
20. The virtual reality encounter system of claim 19 further comprising: a user device comprising a display and transducer, the user device disposed in the second location, with the display configured to receive the transformed image.
21. The virtual reality encounter system of claim 19 further comprising: a support mechanism to support the humanoid form to the mobility base; and a transport module comprising: mechanical drive mechanism; and a transport control module comprising: a processor and memory that are configured to receive control messages from a network, and process the control messages to control the transport module according to the control messages received from the network.
22. A sensory user interface, comprises: a processor and memory configured to: to operate and control a mobility surrogate unit, with the sensory user interface link, further configured to: control the mobility surrogate unit to stay aligned with activities of a human that is associated with the mobility surrogate unit so that motion of the mobility surrogate unit is synchronized with motion of the mobility surrogate.
23. The sensory user interface of claim 22 further configured to: synchronize the user to the mobility surrogate unit by providing to the user a set position of the mobility surrogate as a starting position that the user copies.
24. The sensory user interface of claim 22 wherein the sensory user interface, when activated, causes a virtual reality headset worn by the user to cause the user to: see through the mobility surrogate's eyes.
25. The sensory user interface of claim 22 wherein the sensory user interface, when activated, causes the mobility surrogate to be placed into a given position of a plurality of positions, to allow the user to copy that position.
26. The sensory user interface of claim 26 wherein the sensory user interface, when activated, compensates for latency.
27. A method of transmitting data from a transmitter to a receiver, comprises: determining priority of data transmission of a mixed data stream, according to types of data requested for transmission in order to assign a level of service to each of determined data type in the mixed data stream; discovering at least two different paths between the transmitter and the receiver, with the at least two different paths having at least one node that is different in the at least two different transmission paths; splitting the mixed data stream into plural segments; assigning each of the segments to one of the at least two different transmission paths with each segment being assigned a sequence number that provides to the segment an order of reconstitution of the segments into the data transmission stream at the receiver; encrypting each of the segments with one of plural different transmission keys; and transmitting the segments over the at least two different transmission paths, according to the assigned level of service.
28. The method of claim 27 wherein the transmission keys and reception keys are private and public keys of an asymmetric encryption mode.
29. The method of claim 27 wherein transmission over multiple different paths allows for individual packets to be encrypted at lower encryption levels.
30. The method of claim 27 wherein some of data is transferred over entirely different network paths.
31. The method of claim 27 wherein all of the keys are not known at commencement of transmission.
32. The method of claim 27 wherein the keys are symmetric keys.
</claims>
</document>
