<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BECTON, DICKINSON & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ULRICH, SEAN MICHAEL
GAO, YAN
BEDELL, RYAN FRANCIS
MEMMELAAR, BRYAN EDWARD
SANDBLORN, EFFIE
LIEBOWITZ, EDWARD
SALTIEL-BERZIN, RITA
MCCLURE, DOUGLAS
WILSON, DYLAN K.
CHENAULT, AMY REBECCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67211874
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTEGRATED DISEASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system for displaying disease management goals to a patient includes a user database comprising measured patient disease management data or user-derived patient disease management data, a content database comprising content items related to recommended lifestyle choices and protocols for disease management, and an interactive user interface. The system also includes a memory having instructions that when run on a processor will perform a method comprising determining a patient goal related to improving disease management based on the user information and the stored protocols for disease management and displaying the patient goal to the user on the interactive user interface, and selecting one or more content items from the content database based on at least the determined patient goal and the user information and displaying the selected one or more content items to the user on the interactive user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for displaying one or more disease management goals to a patient, comprising: a user database comprising at least one of measured patient disease management data and user-derived patient disease management data; a content database comprising content items related to recommended lifestyle choices and protocols for disease management; an interactive user interface configured to display and receive input for user information into the system; and a memory having instructions that when run on a processor will perform a method comprising: determining a patient goal related to improving disease management based on the user information and the stored protocols for disease management and displaying the patient goal to the user on the interactive user interface; and selecting one or more content items from the content database based on at least the determined patient goal and the user information and displaying the selected one or more content items to the user on the interactive user interface.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient is a diabetic patient and the disease management is diabetes management.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient goal is selected from the group consisting of: a physical activity based goal, a diet based goal, and a data logging based goal.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the measured patient disease management data is data obtained from one or more patient monitoring devices.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more patient monitoring devices are selected from the group consisting of: a smart diabetes monitor, a smart insulin pen, a smart insulin pump, and a fitness tracker.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory has instruction that when run on a processor perform a method comprising determining a new patient goal related to improving disease management based at least in part on tracking a past patient goal.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a chatbot configured to receive the user-derived patient disease management data from the user.
8. A method for providing integrated disease management, the method comprising: storing at least one of measured patient disease management data and user-inputted patient disease management data to a user database; storing content items related to recommended lifestyle choices for improving patient outcomes and protocols for disease management to a content database; determining a patient goal related to improving disease management for the patient based on the user information and the stored protocols for disease management; selecting one or more content items from the content database based on at least the determined patient goal and the user information; and displaying the selected one or more content items to the user on the interactive user interface.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the disease is diabetes.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the patient goal comprises one of a physical activity based goal, a diet based goal, and a data logging based goal.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the user interaction comprises at least one of the user providing user-inputted patient disease management data with the interactive interface and the user providing measured patient disease management data from one or more patient monitoring devices.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more patient monitoring devices are selected from the group consisting of: a smart diabetes monitor, a smart insulin pen, a smart insulin pump, and a fitness tracker.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: initiating the patient goal upon receipt of a user confirmation of the patient goal; prompting, with the interactive user interface, the user to enter goal tracking information indicative of progress toward the patient goal; and updating the user information based on the goal tracking information.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selecting one or more additional content items from the content database based on at least the patient goal, the user information, and the goal tracking information; and displaying the selected one or more additional content items to the user on the interactive user interface.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a new patient goal related to improving disease management based at least in part on the goal tracking information.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising a chatbot configured to receive user-inputted patient disease management data from the user.
17. A patient data logging method for receiving patient data from a user of an integrated disease management system, the method comprising: displaying a plurality of sample logging prompts, each of the sample logging prompts comprising a phrase relating to a type of patient data associated with a disease of the user and including at least one blank on an interactive user interface; receiving, with a microphone, a spoken user input, the spoken user input comprising the user verbally repeating one the sample logging prompts with patient data inserted into the at least one blank; extracting the patient data from the spoken user input with a natural language processor; and storing the patient data in a user database of the integrated disease management system.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising generating the plurality of sample logging prompts based at least in part on the disease of the user and previously stored patient data.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the disease is diabetes and the plurality of sample prompts are related to one or more of blood glucose measurement, insulin dosing, diet, and physical activity.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: after receipt of the spoken user input, removing the displayed sample logging prompt associated with the spoken user input from the display; displaying a new sample logging prompt to replace the removed sample logging prompt; and displaying, in text on the interactive user display, the spoken user input.
21. The method of claim 17, further comprising: displaying, in text on the interactive user device, the spoken user input; and prompting the user to confirm the displayed spoken user input prior to storing the patient data in the user data base.
22. The method of claim 17, further comprising: storing, in a content database, content items related to recommended lifestyle choices for improving patient outcomes and protocols for disease management; selecting one or more content items from the content database based on at least the stored patient data and the protocols for disease management; and displaying the selected one or more content items to the user on the interactive user interface.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein receiving the spoken user input comprises: recording, with the microphone, an audio signal; dividing the audio signal into a plurality of time blocks; for each time block, calculating the root means square (RMS) for the audio signal strength of the audio signal during the time block; storing the calculated RMS in both an ambient total recording list and a recent recording list, wherein the ambient total recording list includes all calculated RMS values for each time block of the recording, and the recent recording list includes all calculated RMS values for each time block in a recent portion of the recording; calculating an average RMS value for each of the total recording list and the recent recording list; comparing the average RMS value for the total recording list and the RMS value for the recent recording list; and stopping when the average RMS value for the total recording list is higher than the RMS value for the recent recording list.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein each time block is 3000 ms.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the recent portion of the recording includes the time blocks in the last 1.5 seconds of the recording.
26. A data display method for an integrated disease management system, the method comprising: storing user information related to a patient having a disease, the user information comprising at least one of measured patient disease management data and user-inputted patient disease management data in a user database; storing protocols for disease management in a content database; displaying, on an interactive display, a graphical representation of at least a portion of the stored user information; analyzing the at least a portion of stored user information displayed on the interactive display based at least in part on the protocols for disease management to determine a contextualized insight related to the at least a portion of stored user information; and displaying, on the interactive display, the contextualized insight along with the graphical representation.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: storing, in the content database, content items related to recommended lifestyle choices for improving patient outcomes; selecting one or more content items from the content database based on the analysis of the displayed portion of the stored user information and the protocols for disease management; and displaying the selected one or more content items to the user on the interactive user interface along with the graphical user interface.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the disease is diabetes.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the user information comprises data received from one or more patient monitoring devices.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the one or more patient monitoring devices are selected from the group consisting of: a smart diabetes monitor, a smart insulin pen, a smart insulin pump, and a fitness tracker.
31. The method of claim 28, wherein the user information comprises data entered by the user.
</claims>
</document>
