<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W12/12,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KWASNICK ROBERT F.
VANDAM, CLARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65231883
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION OF RADIO FREQUENCY INTERFERENCE OF NETWORKED DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are provided for assessing and mitigating radio frequency interference (RFI) in a network comprising a plurality of wireless devices. During an RFI assessment phase the process includes receiving an attacker signal to operate as an attacker device and then responding to the attacker signal by transmitting a transmitted interference test packet (ITPkt) to one or more other wireless devices of the plurality of wireless devices. The transmitted ITPkt comprises ITPkt parameters includes a network identifier of the device, a transmission globally unique identifier, and a time of transmission for a transmitted interference test pattern (ITPat). The process additionally includes transmitting the transmitted ITPat at the time of transmission for the transmitted ITPat.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for assessing and mitigating radio frequency interference (RFI) in a network comprising a plurality of wireless devices, the apparatus comprising: processing circuitry; and memory including instructions, which when executed by the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to: receive an attacker signal to operate as an attacker device; transmit a transmitted interference test packet (ITPkt) to a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the transmitted ITPkt comprises ITPkt parameters comprising a time of transmission for a transmitted interference test pattern (ITPat); and transmit the transmitted ITPat.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to: receive a victim signal to operate as a victim device; receive an interference test packet (ITPkt) from a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the ITPkt comprises the ITPkt parameters; prepare for reception of an ITPat at the time of transmission; receive the ITPat at the time of transmission; assess a communication metric of the ITPat; and store the communication metric in a memory of the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the ITPkt parameters include: a network identifier of the wireless device and a transmission globally unique identifier.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the communication metric is an error rate of the received ITPat.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the processing circuitry is further to determine the error rate by a comparison of the received ITPat with a predetermined ITPat.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry is further to: send a response containing the communication metric or a value derived therefrom to a sender of the received ITPat or a centralized data aggregator.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to, during a mitigation phase, receive information from a centralized data aggregator (CDA).
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the information from the CDA comprises a table comprising future transmission information of the apparatus in time slots, the table comprising time slot transmission information containing transmission priority information for the one or more other wireless devices.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising taking an action to mitigate RFI in the network.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the action to mitigate RFI comprises causing the processor to revise a transmit behavior.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the revision of the transmit behavior comprises causing the processor to perform at least one of lower a transmit signal intensity, adjust a transmit frequency band, adjust a transmit protocol, or adjust a transmit timing.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the action to mitigate RFI comprises causing the processor to revise receive or transmit behavior.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the revision of the receive or transmit behavior comprises causing the processor to cause the device to remain silent during observed sensitive states.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ITPkt further comprises a test pattern type that identifies the contents of the ITPat.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the ITPkt further comprises a power level, a frequency or frequency band, map location, and an orientation of the antenna and radiation pattern directionality.
16. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmission of the attacker ITPkt is transmitted as a broadcast.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the processing circuitry is further to vary signal directionality during the transmission of the attacker ITPkt.
18. A computer program product comprising non-transitory computer readable storage media comprising computer-executable instructions operable to, when executed by processing circuitry of an apparatus for assessing and mitigating radio frequency interference (RFI) in a network, cause the apparatus to: receive an attacker signal to operate as an attacker device; transmit an interference test packet (ITPkt) to a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the ITPkt comprises ITPkt parameters comprising a time of transmission for an interference test pattern (ITPat); and transmit the ITPat at the time of transmission.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the processing circuitry is to: receive a victim signal to operate as a victim device; receive an interference test packet (ITPkt) from a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the ITPkt comprises the ITPkt parameters; prepare for reception of an ITPat at the time of transmission; receive the ITPat at the time of transmission; assess a communication metric of the ITPat; and store the communication metric in a memory of the apparatus.
20. A method for assessing and mitigating radio frequency interference (RFI) in a network comprising a plurality of wireless devices, the method comprising: receiving an attacker signal to operate as an attacker device; transmitting an interference test packet (ITPkt) to a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the ITPkt comprises ITPkt parameters comprising a time of transmission for an interference test pattern (ITPat); and transmitting the ITPat at the time of transmission.
21. The method of claim 20, comprising: receiving a victim signal to operate as a victim device; receiving an interference test packet (ITPkt) from a wireless device of the plurality of wireless devices, wherein the ITPkt comprises the ITPkt parameters; preparing for reception of an ITPat at the time of transmission; receiving the ITPat at the time of transmission; assessing a communication metric of the ITPat; and storing the communication metric in a memory of the apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
