<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEITCH, ALAN
REYNOLDS, DYLAN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70856271
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR OFFERING AND PROCESSING PROMOTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provide methods, systems, apparatuses, and computer program products for classifying merchants. In one embodiment a method is provided comprising providing, a first promotion specifying a redemption and a charge monetary values, the redemption monetary value being specified by redemption parameters of the first promotion and a value indicative of a total amount of funds purchased in response to accepting an instance of the first promotion, wherein the funds purchased can be redeemed for offerings of one or more merchants specified by the promotion, the charge monetary value being a monetary value charged for accepting the first promotion, and providing a first classification classifying the first promotion as a promotion having a redemption monetary value that may be used to purchase offerings of the one or more merchants over the course of multiple transactions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-25. (canceled)
26. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: determine, based on a predictive model, that classifying a first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions results in a programmatically generated number of consumers that are predicted to be satisfied with the first promotion that exceeds a particular threshold; classify the first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions; and transmit, to a first user device and for rendering via a display of the first user device, the first promotion, wherein the first promotion is associated with a redemption monetary value indicative of a total amount of funds purchased in response to accepting an instance of the first promotion.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the predictive model comprises a random forest model comprising a plurality of decision trees.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the random forest model generates a random forest prediction based in part on an average of the plurality of decision trees.
29. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the first promotion is further classified as a promotion that may be used in combination with other promotions.
30. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the total amount of funds purchased can be redeemed for offerings of one or more merchants specified by the first promotion.
31. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus to: in response to processing one or more transactions for purchasing offerings using the first promotion, determine a first remainder of the redemption monetary value.
32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus to: receive, from the first user device, a request for a refund for the first promotion; and in response to receiving the request, void the first promotion; and transmit to the first user device an indication representing successful processing of the refund based on the redemption monetary value and specifying a refund amount.
33. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code instructions stored therein, the computer-executable program code instructions comprising program code instructions to: determine, based on a predictive model, that classifying a first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions results in a programmatically generated number of consumers that are predicted to be satisfied with the first promotion that exceeds a particular threshold; classify the first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions; and transmit, to a first user device and for rendering via a display of the first user device, the first promotion, wherein the first promotion is associated with a redemption monetary value indicative of a total amount of funds purchased in response to accepting an instance of the first promotion.
34. The computer program product of claim 33, wherein the predictive model comprises a random forest model comprising a plurality of decision trees.
35. The computer program product of claim 34, wherein the random forest model generates a random forest prediction based in part on an average of the plurality of decision trees.
36. The computer program product of claim 33, wherein the first promotion is further classified as a promotion that may be used in combination with other promotions.
37. The computer program product of claim 33, wherein the total amount of funds purchased can be redeemed for offerings of one or more merchants specified by the first promotion.
38. The computer program product of claim 33, wherein the computer-executable program code instructions further comprise program code instructions to: in response to processing one or more transactions for purchasing offerings using the first promotion, determine a first remainder of the redemption monetary value.
39. The computer program product of claim 33, wherein the computer-executable program code instructions further comprise program code instructions to receive, from the first user device, a request for a refund for the first promotion and in response to receiving the request: receive, from the first user device, a request for a refund for the first promotion; and in response to receiving the request, void the first promotion; and transmit to the first user device an indication representing successful processing of the refund based on the redemption monetary value and specifying a refund amount.
40. A computer implemented method comprising: determining, based on a predictive model, that classifying a first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions results in a programmatically generated number of consumers that are predicted to be satisfied with the first promotion that exceeds a particular threshold; classifying the first promotion as a promotion that may be redeemed over multiple transactions; and transmitting, to a first user device and for rendering via a display of the first user device, the first promotion, wherein the first promotion is associated with a redemption monetary value indicative of a total amount of funds purchased in response to accepting an instance of the first promotion.
41. The computer implemented method of claim 40, wherein the predictive model comprises a random forest model comprising a plurality of decision trees.
42. The computer implemented method of claim 41, wherein the random forest model generates a random forest prediction based in part on an average of the plurality of decision trees.
43. The computer implemented method of claim 40, wherein the first promotion is further classified as a promotion that may be used in combination with other promotions.
44. The computer implemented method of claim 40, wherein the total amount of funds purchased can be redeemed for offerings of one or more merchants specified by the first promotion.
45. The computer implemented method of claim 40, further comprising: in response to processing one or more transactions for purchasing offerings using the first promotion, determining a first remainder of the redemption monetary value.
</claims>
</document>
