<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SULLIVAN, BRYAN
TOFIGHBAKHSH, MOSTAFA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT DATA ANALYTICS COLLECTORS
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, generating a instruction set according to a data analytics collection strategy and identifying first and second network devices adapted to perform first and second types of network functions, respectively, within a communications network, wherein the first and second types of network functions are different. First and second collectors are instantiated in association with the first and second network devices, respectively, and the instruction set is provided to each of the first and second collectors. The first and second collectors are adapted to autonomously execute first and second segments of the instruction set according to the first and second types of network function to obtain first and second collection results, respectively, wherein network analytic functions are adapted to process the first and second collection results. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a processing system including a processor, a data analytics collection strategy; generating, by the processing system, a common machine-readable instruction set according to the data analytics collection strategy; identifying, by the processing system, a first network device adapted to perform a first type of network function within a communications network and a second network device adapted to perform a second type of network function within the communications network, wherein the first type of network function and the second type of network function are different; instantiating, by the processing system, a first analytics collection device in association with the first network device and a second analytics collection device in association with the second network device; and forwarding, by the processing system, the common machine-readable instruction set to the first analytics collection device and to the second analytics collection device according to a first collection period, wherein the first analytics collection device is adapted to autonomously execute a first group of instructions of the common machine-readable instruction set according to the first type of network function to obtain first collection results during the first collection period and the second analytics collection device is adapted to autonomously execute a second group of instructions of the common machine-readable instruction set according to the second type of network function to obtain second collection results during the first collection period, and wherein network analytic functions are adapted to process the first collection results and the second collection results according to the data analytics collection strategy.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the instantiating of the first analytics collection device in association with the first network device comprises downloading the common machine-readable instruction set to the first analytics collection device operating within a network function virtualization infrastructure.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein obtaining of the first and second collection results comprises collecting control plane data, wherein the control plane data includes signaling traffic that facilitates an exchange of data traffic through the communications network.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first network device is selected from of a group of network devices consisting of a router, a switch, a network edge device, a network interface card, a mobile communication device, a radio, a radio control unit, a processor of a mobile packet core network, and combinations thereof, and wherein the second network device is selected from a different of the group of network devices.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first analytics collection device comprises a virtual machine operating within a network function virtualization infrastructure and wherein the first analytics collection device is instantiated within the first network device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first analytics collection device comprises a virtual machine operating within a network function virtualization infrastructure and wherein the first network device is instantiated within a physical node of the communication network.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the physical node is adjunct to the first network device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the common machine-readable instruction set comprises a function, an algorithm, a filter, or a combination thereof.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first analytics collection device is adapted to instantiate a plurality of sub-collection devices according to the first group of instructions of the common machine-readable instruction set, wherein the sub-collection devices execute sub-instruction sets to obtain sub-collection results during the first collection period.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein execution of the sub-instruction sets are synchronized among the plurality of sub-collection devices.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating, by the processing system, the first and second collection results to obtain an evaluation of collected results; and determining, by the processing system, a revised data analytics collection strategy according to the evaluation of the collected results.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: revising, by the processing system, the common machine-readable instruction set to obtain a revised common machine-readable instruction set according to the revised data analytics collection strategy; and forwarding, by the processing system, the revised common machine-readable instruction set to the first analytics collection device and the second analytics collection device according to a second collection period, wherein the first analytics collection device is adapted to autonomously execute a first group of instructions of the revised common machine-readable instruction set according to the first type of network function to obtain subsequent first collection results during the second collection period and the second analytics collection device is adapted to autonomously execute a second group of instructions of the revised common machine-readable instruction set according to the second type of network function to obtain subsequent second collection results during the second collection period, and wherein network analytic functions are adapted to process the subsequent first collection results and the subsequent second collection results.
13. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: identifying a data analytics strategy; generating a common instruction set according to the data analytics strategy; identifying a first network device adapted to perform a first type of network function within a communications network and a second network device adapted to perform a second type of network function within the communications network, wherein the first type of network function differs from the second type of network function; instantiating a first analytics collector in association with the first network device and a second analytics collector in association with the second network device; and providing the common instruction set to the first analytics collector and to the second analytics collector, wherein the first analytics collector is adapted to autonomously execute a first subset of the common instruction set according to the first type of network function to obtain first collection results and the second analytics collector is adapted to autonomously execute a second subset of the common instruction set according to the second type of network function to obtain second collection results, and wherein network analytic functions are adapted to process the first collection results and the second collection results according to the data analytics strategy.
14. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: evaluating the first and second collection results to obtain an evaluation of collected results; and determining a revised data analytics according to the evaluation of the collected results.
15. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: revising the common instruction set according to a data analytics strategy; and providing the common instruction set to the first analytics collector and the second analytics collector, wherein the first analytics collector is adapted to autonomously execute a first subset of the common instruction set according to the first type of network function to obtain first collection results and the second analytics collector is adapted to autonomously execute a second subset of the common instruction set according to the second type of network function to obtain second collection results, wherein network analytic functions is adapted to process the first collection results and the second collection results.
16. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein obtaining of the first and second collection results by the first and second analytics collectors comprises collecting control plane data, wherein the control plane data includes signaling traffic that facilitates an exchange of data traffic through the communications network.
17. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the first network device comprises a virtual machine operating within a network function virtualization infrastructure.
18. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: determining a data analytics strategy; generating an instruction set according to the data analytics strategy; identifying a first network device adapted to perform a first type of network function and a second network device adapted to perform a second type of network function, wherein the first type of network function differs from the second type of network function; providing a first collector in association with the first network device and a second collector in association with the second network device; and providing the instruction set to the first collector and to the second collector, wherein the first collector is adapted to execute a first segment of the instruction set according to the first type of network function to obtain first collection results and the second collector is adapted to execute a second segment of the instruction set according to the second type of network function to obtain second collection results, and wherein a network analytic function is adapted to process the first collection results and the second collection results according to the data analytics strategy.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the first network device is instantiated within a physical collector node of a computer network.
20. The device of claim 18, wherein the instruction set comprises a function, an algorithm, a filter, or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
