<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/18,G06F30/20,G06Q50/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Formsolver, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Sterk, Tristan d'Estrée
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59626258
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Generating an Energy Model and Tracking Evolution of an Energy Model
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for generating an energy model and tracking evolution of an energy model are disclosed. An example method comprises receiving material information and geometry information associated with a design model, and generating, based on the material information, geometry information, location information, and constraints, an energy analysis model associated with energy transmissions for the design model, wherein the energy transmissions are based on energy transmissions through surfaces of a plurality of model objects that collectively form the design model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, material information, geometry information, location information, and constraint information associated with a design model; and generating, by the computing device and based on the material information, geometry information, the location information, and the constraint information, an energy analysis model associated with energy transmissions for the design model, wherein the energy transmissions are based on energy transmissions through surfaces of a plurality of model objects that collectively form the design model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising packaging the energy transmissions into an energy profile.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the geometry information comprises at least one of area data, normal data, or vertex data associated with one or more model objects in the design model, and wherein the material information comprises a material associated with the one or more model objects in the design model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the material information and the geometric information occurs in response to: determining, at a first time, a first list of model objects within the design model; determining, at a second time, a second list corresponding to model objects that match, are altered, or are new in view of the first list of model objects; quantifying a variance based on the first list and the second list; and determining that the quantified variance meets or exceeds a threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the material information comprises a first material, the geometry information comprises a first geometry, the energy analysis model is a first energy analysis model, and the energy transmissions are first energy transmissions, the method further comprising: locating at least one of a second material different from the first material or a second geometry different from the first geometry; generating a second energy analysis model based on the at least one of the second material or the second geometry and based on the location information and the constraints; and determining, based on the generated second energy analysis model, second energy transmissions for the design model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the material information is first material information, the geometry information is first geometry information, the energy analysis model is a first energy analysis model, and the energy transmissions are first energy transmissions, the method further comprising: generating a second energy analysis model based on received second material information and second geometry information; determining, based on the generated second energy analysis model, second energy transmissions for the design model; and generating, based on the first energy transmissions and the determined second energy transmissions, an energy chronology.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising causing the first energy transmissions and the second energy transmissions to be presented to a user.
8. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a design profile comprising a first material or a first geometry associated with a design model; generating a first energy analysis model based on the design profile; determining, based on the generated first energy analysis model, first energy transmissions for the design model; locating at least one of a second material different from the first material or a second geometry different from the first geometry; generating a second energy analysis model based on the design profile and based on the at least one of the second material or the second geometry; and determining, based on the generated second energy analysis model, second energy transmissions for the design model.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: presenting the second energy transmissions to a user; receiving an indication that the user selected the second energy transmissions; and associating the at least one of the second material or the second geometry with the design profile corresponding to the design model, wherein the second material comprises an identifier of a manufacturer.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the locating of the at least one of the second material different from the first material or the second geometry different from the first geometry comprises: determining a material constraint defining a first search space for materials; determining a geometric constraint defining a second search space for geometries; and locating the at least one of the second material or the second geometry based on the first search space and the second search space.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising packaging the determined first energy transmissions into a first energy profile and the determined second energy transmission into a second energy profile.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the design profile is a first design profile, the method further comprising: generating a third energy analysis model based on a received second design profile; determining, based on the generated third energy analysis model, third energy transmissions for the design model; and generating, based on the determined first energy transmissions and the determined third energy transmissions, an energy chronology.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the receiving of the design profile occurs in response to: determining, at a first time, a first list of model objects within the design model; determining, at a second time, a second list corresponding to model objects that match, are altered, or are new in view of the first list of model objects; quantifying a variance based on the first list and the second list; and determining that the quantified variance meets or exceeds a threshold.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first energy transmissions for the design model or the second energy transmissions for the design model is based on an aggregate of energy transmissions through surfaces of model objects that collectively form the design model.
15. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device remote from a user device, a first design profile associated with a design model generated at the user device; generating, by the computing device, a first energy analysis model based on the first design profile; determining, by the computing device and based on the generated energy analysis model, first energy transmissions for the design model; in response to receiving a second design profile, generating a second energy analysis model based on the second design profile; determining, based on the generated second energy analysis model, second energy transmissions for the design model; and generating, based on the determined first energy transmissions and the determined second energy transmissions, an energy chronology.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising packaging the determined first energy transmissions and the determined second energy transmissions into energy profiles.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the receiving of the first design profile occurs in response to: determining, at a first time, a first list of model objects within the design model; determining, at a second time, a second list corresponding to model objects that match, are altered, or are new in view of the first list of model objects; quantifying a variance based on the first list and the second list; and determining that the quantified variance meets or exceeds a threshold.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the first energy transmissions for the design model or the second energy transmissions for the design model is based on an aggregate of energy transmissions through surfaces of model objects that collectively form the design model.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the first design profile comprises a first material or a first geometry, the method further comprising: locating at least one of a second material different from the first material or a second geometry different from the first geometry; generating a third energy analysis model based on the first design profile and based on the at least one of the second material or the second geometry; determining, based on the generated third energy analysis model, third energy transmissions for the design model.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising causing the first energy transmissions, the second energy transmissions, and the third energy transmissions to be presented at the user device.
</claims>
</document>
