<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/44,G06F21/62,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KURIAN, MANU JACOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR SECURING AND ALLOWING ACCESS TO ELECTRONIC DATA IN A DATA STORAGE CONTAINER
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provide a system for securing and allowing access to electronic data in a data storage container. The system is configured for identifying initiation of a connection with an data storage container, determining establishment of the connection with the data storage container, instantaneously crawling into the data storage container to access data that is associated with the data storage container, instantaneously performing one or more operations associated with the data, storing information associated with the one or more operations in a data store, identifying initiation of a connection with an entity system, determining establishment of the connection with the entity system, instantaneously transferring the information associated with the one or more operations to the entity system, and performing one or more actions, via one or more applications stored on the entity system, utilizing the information associated with the one or more operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A secure siloed system for securing and allowing access to electronic data in a data storage container, the system comprising: at least one transitory storage device; and at least one processing device coupled to the at least one non-transitory storage device, wherein the at least one processing device is configured to: identify initiation of a connection with a data storage container; determine establishment of the connection with the data storage container; instantaneously crawl into the data storage container to access data that is associated with the data storage container; and instantaneously perform one or more operations associated with the data via an artificial intelligence engine.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein instantaneously performing the one or more operations comprises instantaneously performing analytics on the data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processing device is further configured to store information associated with the analytics in a data store.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one processing device is configured to: identify initiation of a connection with an entity system; determine establishment of the connection with the entity system; instantaneously transfer the information associated with the analytics to the entity system; and perform one or more actions, via one or more applications stored on the entity system, utilizing the information associated with the analytics.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device is further configured to store the data in a data store.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processing device is further configured to store the data in the data store based on: identifying a hardware identification associated with the data storage container; generating a token using the hardware identification; assigning the token to the data and store tokenized data in the data store.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processing device is configured to transfer the data to at least one other data storage container, wherein transferring the data to the at least one other data storage container is based on authenticating the one other data storage container using at least one hardware identification associated with the at least one other data storage container.
8. A computer program product in a secure siloed system for securing and allowing access to electronic data in a data storage container, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer executable instructions for causing a computer processor to perform the steps of: identifying initiation of a connection with a data storage container; determining establishment of the connection with the data storage container; instantaneously crawling into the data storage container to access data that is associated with the data storage container; and instantaneously performing one or more operations associated with the data via an artificial intelligence engine.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein instantaneously performing the one or more operations comprises instantaneously performing analytics on the data.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the computer processor to store information associated with the analytics in a data store.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the computer processor to: identify initiation of a connection with an entity system; determine establishment of the connection with the entity system; instantaneously transfer the information associated with the analytics to the entity system; and perform one or more actions, via one or more applications stored on the entity system, utilizing the information associated with the analytics.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the computer processor to store the data in a data store.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the computer executable instructions cause the computer processor to store the data in the data store based on: identifying a hardware identification associated with the data storage container; generating a token using the hardware identification; assigning the token to the data and store tokenized data in the data store.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the computer executable instructions further cause the computer processor to transfer the data to at least one other data storage container, wherein transferring the data to the at least one other data storage container is based on authenticating the one other data storage container using at least one hardware identification associated with the at least one other data storage container.
15. A computerized method performed by a secure siloed system for securing and allowing access to electronic data in a data storage container, the method comprising: identifying initiation of a connection with a data storage container; determining establishment of the connection with the data storage container; instantaneously crawling into the data storage container to access data that is associated with the data storage container; and instantaneously performing one or more operations associated with the data via an artificial intelligence engine.
16. The computerized method of claim 15, wherein instantaneously performing the one or more operations comprises instantaneously performing analytics on the data.
17. The computerized method of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises store information associated with the analytics in a data store.
18. The computerized method of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: identifying initiation of a connection with an entity system; determining establishment of the connection with the entity system; instantaneously transferring the information associated with the analytics to the entity system; and performing one or more actions, via one or more applications stored on the entity system, utilizing the information associated with the analytics.
19. The computerized method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: identifying a hardware identification associated with the data storage container; generating a token using the hardware identification; assigning the token to the data and store tokenized data in a data store.
20. The computerized method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises transferring the data to at least one other data storage container, wherein transferring the data to the at least one other data storage container is based on authenticating the one other data storage container using at least one hardware identification associated with the at least one other data storage container.
</claims>
</document>
