<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/36,G08G1/123,G08G1/13,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YE CHAO
LIU, CHAO
QIAO YONG
YANG, ZHENLIN
XU, YINGCHUAN
CHEN, QIAO
MU, QIAN
WANG, KEGANG
LI, PENGXUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64735882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DISPLAYING A MOVEMENT OF A VEHICLE ON A MAP
</title>

<abstract>
A method for displaying a smooth movement of a vehicle on a map may include obtaining a route, a last real-time location of the vehicle, and a last uploading time point. The method may also include obtaining driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles and determining a predicted location of the vehicle at a prediction generating time point. The method may further include displaying a smooth movement of the vehicle from the last real-time location to the predicted location on a map. A method for displaying a driving path of a vehicle on a map may include obtaining a request for displaying a driving path of a vehicle, location information of the vehicle, and scene related information associated with the driving path. The method may further include verifying the location information based on the scene related information and displaying the driving path of the vehicle on a map.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium, and a communication platform connected to a network for displaying a smooth movement of a vehicle on a map, the method comprising: obtaining a route of a vehicle via communicating with a service provider over a network; obtaining a last real-time location of the vehicle on the route and a last uploading time point corresponding to the last real-time location; obtaining driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle via communicating with the service provider over the network; determining a predicted location of the vehicle on the route at a prediction generating time point based on the last real-time location, the last uploading time point, and the driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; and displaying a smooth movement of the vehicle from the last real-time location to the predicted location on a map implemented on a terminal device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point includes: determining a velocity of the vehicle based on velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; determining a predicted distance that the vehicle travels from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the velocity; and determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point includes: determining a predicted distance that the vehicle traverses from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route; and determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
6. The method of claim 1, further including: determining a distance between the last real-time location and a station near the route; determining whether the distance is smaller than a threshold; and in response to the determination that the distance is smaller than the threshold, displaying the vehicle in a stationary status at a predicted location between the last real-time location and the station for a first duration on the map implemented on the terminal device.
7. The method of claim 1, further including: obtaining a current real-time location of the vehicle; determining whether the predicted location at the prediction generating time point is ahead of the current real-time location of the vehicle; and in response to the determination that the predicted location at the prediction generating time point is ahead of the current real-time location of the vehicle, displaying the vehicle in a stationary status at the predicted location on the map implemented on the terminal device until the current real-time location of the vehicle arrives at the predicted location.
8. A system for displaying a smooth movement of a vehicle on a map, comprising: at least one storage medium storing a set of instructions; at least one communication platform connected to a network; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the at least one storage medium or the at least one communication platform, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to cause the system to: obtain a route of a vehicle via communicating with a service provider over a network; obtain a last real-time location of the vehicle on the route and a last uploading time point corresponding to the last real-time location; obtain driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle via communicating with the service provider over the network; determine a predicted location of the vehicle on the route at a prediction generating time point based on the last real-time location, the last uploading time point, and the driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; and display a smooth movement of the vehicle from the last real-time location to the predicted location on a map implemented on a terminal device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein to determine the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: determine a velocity of the vehicle based on velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; determine a predicted distance that the vehicle travels from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the velocity; and determine the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to determine the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point, the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: determine a predicted distance that the vehicle traverses from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route; and determine the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: determine a distance between the last real-time location and a station near the route; determine whether the distance is smaller than a threshold; and in response to the determination that the distance is smaller than the threshold, display the vehicle in a stationary status at a predicted location between the last real-time location and the station for a first duration on the map implemented on the terminal device.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to cause the system to: obtain a current real-time location of the vehicle; determine whether the predicted location at the prediction generating time point is ahead of the current real-time location of the vehicle; and in response to the determination that the predicted location at the prediction generating time point is ahead of the current real-time location of the vehicle, display the vehicle in a stationary status at the predicted location on the map implemented on the terminal device until the current real-time location of the vehicle arrives at the predicted location.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising a set of instructions for displaying a smooth movement of a vehicle on a map, wherein when executed by at least one processor, the set of instructions directs the at least one processor to effectuate a method, the method comprising: obtaining a route of a vehicle via communicating with a service provider over a network; obtaining a last real-time location of the vehicle on the route and a last uploading time point corresponding to the last real-time location; obtaining driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle via communicating with the service provider over the network; determining a predicted location of the vehicle on the route at a prediction generating time point based on the last real-time location, the last uploading time point, and the driving data of one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; and displaying a smooth movement of the vehicle from the last real-time location to the predicted location on a map implemented on a terminal device.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point includes: determining a velocity of the vehicle based on velocities of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle; determining a predicted distance that the vehicle travels from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the velocity; and determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the driving data of the one or more neighboring vehicles associated with the vehicle includes durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point includes: determining a predicted distance that the vehicle traverses from the last uploading time point to the prediction generating time point based on the durations of the one or more neighboring vehicles to traverse one or more parts of the route; and determining the predicted location of the vehicle on the route at the prediction generating time point based on the predicted distance and the last real-time location.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, the method further including: determining a distance between the last real-time location and a station near the route; determining whether the distance is smaller than a threshold; and in response to the determination that the distance is smaller than the threshold, displaying the vehicle in a stationary status at a predicted location between the last real-time location and the station for a first duration on the map implemented on the terminal device.
</claims>
</document>
