<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F1/66,G01F1/696,H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VAUGHN REALTY VENTURES
</assignee>

<inventors>
RADUCHEL, WILLIAM, J.
VAUGHN, BRADLEY MOSER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189739
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WATER METERING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for metering water are disclosed. In some implementations, audio energy corresponding to a flow of material in a pipe that meets a threshold audio energy is detected using a sensor of a batter-operated device connected to the pipe. One or more components of the battery-operated device are activated in response to detecting the audio energy that meets the threshold audio energy. Audio data corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe is collected using the sensor in response to detecting the audio energy that meets the threshold audio energy. The audio data is analyzed using a processing component of the batter-operated device to determine one or more events. An indication of the one or more events is transmitted to an external computing system in response to determining the one or more events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: detecting, using a sensor of a battery-operated device connected to a pipe, audio energy corresponding to a flow of material in the pipe that meets a threshold audio energy; in response to detecting the audio energy that meets the threshold audio energy, activating one or more components of the battery-operated device; in response to detecting the audio energy that meets the threshold audio energy, collecting, using the sensor of the battery-operated device, audio data corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe; analyzing, using a processing component of the battery-operated device, the audio data to determine one or more events; and in response to determining the one or more events, transmitting an indication of the one or more events to an external computing system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the audio energy corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe comprises detecting, using a wake-on-sound microphone of the battery-operated device, the audio energy corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe meets the threshold audio energy.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the one or more components of the battery-operated device comprises placing the one or more components of the device in an on-state from an off-state.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the one or more components of the battery-operated device comprises waking the one or more components of the battery-operated device from a sleep-state.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the one or more components of the battery-operated device comprises activating a low-power C.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein activating the one or more components of the battery-operated device comprises activating a low-power transmitter or a low-power transceiver of the battery-operated device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the audio data to determine the one or more events comprises: preprocessing the audio data using the sensor of the battery-operated device to generate processed audio data; and using the processed audio data to determine the one or more events.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein preprocessing the audio data using the sensor of the battery-operated device to generate the processed audio data comprises extracting features from the audio data.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein using the processed audio data to determine the one or more events comprises: using one or more machine learning algorithms to convert the processed audio data into an estimated flow of material in the pipe; and using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the using the one or more machine learning algorithms to convert the processed audio data into the estimated flow of material in the pipe comprises determining that a flow of material in the pipe corresponds to one or more of the following: (i) a first flow category for one or more time periods of a time period over which the audio data was collected, (ii) a second flow category for one or more time periods of the time period over which the audio data was collected, or (iii) a third flow category for one or more time periods of the time period over which the audio data was collected, and wherein the first flow category corresponds to a first flow of material range and a first weight, the second flow category corresponds to a second flow of material range greater than the first flow of material range and a second weight greater than the first weight, and the third flow category corresponds to a third flow of material range greater than the second flow of material range and a third weight greater than the second weight.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events comprises: determining a first accumulated time from the one or more time periods during which the flow of material in the pipe corresponds to the first flow category, a second accumulated time from the one or more time periods during which the flow of material in the pipe corresponds to the second flow category, and a third accumulated time from the one or more time periods during which the flow of material in the pipe corresponds to the third flow category; calculating a first weighted time using the first accumulated time and the first weight, a second weighted time using the second accumulated time and the second weight, and a third weighted time using the third accumulated time and the third weight; calculating a weighted time from the first weighted time, the second weighted time, and the third weighted time; and identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the weighted time.
12. The method of claim 11, comprising determining that the weighted time meets a threshold weighted time, wherein identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the weighted time comprises identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the threshold weighted time.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein: identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the threshold weighted time comprises identifying one or more of the following: an appliance having a typical usage that corresponds to the threshold weighted time; a grouping of appliance having a combined typical usage that corresponds to the threshold weighted time; a leak in the pipe that corresponds to the threshold weighted time; or a maximum usage allocated to a building or a unit in a building, the maximum usage corresponding to the threshold weighted time, and transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting one or more of the following: an indication of an appliance that is likely running and responsible for the flow of material in the pipe; an indication of a group of appliances that are likely running and responsible for the flow of material in the pipe; an indication that a leak in the pipe is likely responsible for the flow of material in the pipe; or an indication that the maximum usage allocated to a building or a unit in a building is likely met based on the flow of material in the pipe.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the weighted time comprises: converting the weighted time to an estimated amount of material; and assigning a usage based on the estimated amount of material to a building that includes the pipe or to a unit of a building that receives an output of the pipe, and wherein transmitting an indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting an indication of the usage to an external computing system.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events comprises: determining, from the estimated flow of material in the pipe, that an amount of material that has flowed through the pipe since the activation of the one or more components of the battery-operated device meets a threshold amount of material; and identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the threshold amount of material.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events comprises: determining, from the estimated flow of material in the pipe, that an amount of time that material has flowed through the pipe since the activation of the one or more components of the battery-operated device meets a threshold amount of time; and identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the threshold amount of time.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events comprises: determining, from the estimated flow of material in the pipe, that an amount of material that has flowed through the pipe since the activation of the one or more components of the battery-operated device meets a threshold amount of material; determining, from the estimated flow of material in the pipe, that an amount of time that at least the threshold amount of material has flowed through the pipe since the activation of the one or more components of the battery-operated device meets a threshold amount of time; and identifying the one or more events as events corresponding to the threshold amount of material and the threshold amount of time.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein using one or more machine learning algorithms to convert the processed audio data into the estimated flow of material in the pipe comprises using one or more machine learning algorithms that are run on the processing component of the battery-operated device to convert the processed audio data into the estimated flow of material.
19. The method of claim 9, wherein: the one or more machine learning algorithms are initially trained to account for one or more characteristics of the pipe including at least one of the following: an outside diameter of the pipe; an inside diameter of the pipe; a material of the pipe; a type of material that flows in the pipe; or an expected temperature or temperature range of material that flows in the pipe, and estimates of flow of material in the pipe generated using the one or more machine learning algorithms as initially trained have a first level of accuracy.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising training the one or more machine learning algorithms using previously collected audio data, wherein estimates of flow of material in the pipe generated using the one or more machine learning algorithms after trained using previously collected audio data have a second level of accuracy that is greater than the first level of accuracy.
21. The method of claim 9, comprising training the one or more machine learning algorithms using previously collected audio data, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms are trained to identify, from the estimated flow of material in the pipe, one or more appliances connected to the pipe that are running, and wherein using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to determine the one or more events comprises using the estimated flow of material in the pipe to identify one or more appliances connected to the pipe that are running and responsible for flow of material in the pipe.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein: analyzing the audio data to determine one or more events comprises analyzing the audio data to determine that a leak has been detected in the pipe, and transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting an indication that a leak has been detected in the pipe.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein: analyzing the audio data to determine one or more events comprises analyzing the audio data to determine that normal usage has been detected in the pipe, and transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting an indication that normal usage has been detected in the pipe.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein: analyzing the audio data to determine one or more events comprises analyzing the audio data to identify an appliance that is running, and transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting an indication that the appliance is running.
25. The method of claim 1, comprising, prior to detecting the audio energy, receiving a software update corresponding to characteristics of the pipe.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein receiving a software update comprises: receiving, from the external computing device, a data packet; extracting contents of the data packet; and using the contents to update software of the battery-operated device.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein receiving a software update corresponding to characteristics of the pipe comprises receiving a software update that is based on at least one of the following: an outside diameter of the pipe; an inside diameter of the pipe; a material of the pipe; a type of material that flows in the pipe; an expected temperature or temperature range of material that flows in the pipe; or previously collected audio energy.
28. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting the indication of the one or more event to the external computing system over a 5G network.
29. A system for a battery-operated device connected to a pipe comprising: a microphone; one or more batteries; a transceiver; one or more computers; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: detecting, using the microphone of the battery-operated device, audio energy corresponding to a flow of material in the pipe meets a threshold audio energy; in response to determining that the audio energy meets the threshold audio energy, activating one or more components of the battery-operated device; in response to determining that the audio energy meets the threshold audio energy, collecting, using the microphone of the battery-operated device, audio data corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe; analyzing, using the one or more computers of the battery-operated device, the audio data to determine one or more events; and in response to determining the one or more events, transmitting, using the transceiver, an indication of the one or more events to an external computing system.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the microphone is a wake-on sound microphone that is configured to activate one or more other components of the battery-operated device in response to detecting a sufficient audio energy level.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein: the transceiver is a low-power 5G transceiver configured to wirelessly communicate over a 5G network, and the transceiver is part of a lower-power 5G chipset; and transmitting the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system comprises transmitting, using the 5G transceiver, the indication of the one or more events to the external computing system.
32. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: detecting, using a sensor of a battery-operated device connected to a pipe, audio energy corresponding to a flow of material in the pipe meets a threshold audio energy; in response to determining that the audio energy meets the threshold audio energy, activating one or more components of the battery-operated device; in response to determining that the audio energy meets the threshold audio energy, collecting, using the sensor of the battery-operated device, audio data corresponding to the flow of material in the pipe; analyzing, using a processing component of the battery-operated device, the audio data to determine one or more events; and in response to determining the one or more events, transmitting an indication of the one or more events to an external computing system.
</claims>
</document>
