<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/20,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTAYE, YOHANNES
DANILOV, MIKHAIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cluster Contraction of a Mapped Redundant Array of Independent Nodes
</title>

<abstract>
Contracting a mapped redundant array of independent nodes is disclosed. In a contracted topology for a mapped storage system can be determined based on an initial topology of the mapped storage system. The contracted topology can comprise fewer mapped nodes than the initial topology. Further, the contracted topology can satisfy a rule related to data protection against a failure of a real node of a storage system corresponding to the mapped storage system. In some embodiments, the contracted topology can satisfy another rule related to data protection via distribution of data protection fragments according to the second topology. Data protection via distribution of data protection fragments can result from shifting data protection fragments prior to contraction, shifting mapped nodes based on a count of data protection fragments, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving an indication to contract computing resources of a mapped storage system; determining, based on a first topology of the mapped storage system, a second topology for the mapped storage system, wherein the second topology is determined to satisfy a first rule related to data protection against a failure of a real node of a storage system corresponding to the mapped storage system, and wherein the second topology comprises fewer mapped nodes than the first topology; and initiating contraction of the mapped storage system based from the first topology to the second topology.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is a real processor.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is a virtual processor executing on a real processor.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is comprised in the storage system.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is comprised in the mapped storage system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is comprised in a device that is not comprised in the storage system and is not comprised in the mapped storage system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, selecting the second topology from topologies comprising the second topology based on a rank of the second topology among the topologies.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the rank is based on an amount of computing resources projected to be used in an implementation of the second topology for the mapped storage system.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the rank is based on a level of performance projected to be experienced for an implementation of the second topology for the mapped storage system.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, determining that the second topology satisfies a second rule related to data protection, and wherein the second rule relates to distribution of data protection fragments for the second topology.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the determining that the second topology satisfies the second rule comprises determining an alteration of a distribution of data protection fragments of the first topology prior to the initiating of the contraction of the mapped storage system to facilitate contracting the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology in accord with the second rule.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the determining that the second topology satisfies the second rule comprises determining a transfer of mapped nodes of the first topology prior to the initiating of the contraction of the mapped storage system, wherein the mapped nodes of the first topology comprise data protection fragments, and wherein the transfer of the mapped nodes of the first topology facilitates contracting the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology in accord with the second rule.
13. A method, comprising: determining, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, a contraction schema for contracting a mapped storage system from a first topology to a second topology, wherein the second topology comprises fewer mapped nodes than the first topology; and in response to determining, by the system, that the second topology does not result in real disks of a real node of a real cluster being represented by more than one mapped node of the mapped storage system, initiating contraction of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology based on the contraction schema.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining, by the system, that the second topology satisfies a rule related to distribution of data protection fragments according to the second topology.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining that the second topology satisfies the rule comprises determining that the contraction schema comprises the contracting of the mapped nodes of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology in a manner that prevents a count of the data protection fragments comprised in a mapped node of the mapped nodes from traversing a threshold value in the second topology.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining that the second topology satisfies the rule comprises determining that the contraction schema comprises altering a distribution of the data protection fragments of the first topology of the mapped storage system prior to the contracting of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to receiving an instruction to contract a mapped storage system, determining, based on a first topology of the mapped storage system, a second topology for the mapped storage system, wherein the second topology comprises fewer mapped nodes than the first topology; and causing contraction of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the second topology does not comprise a relationship between data of more than one mapped node of the mapped storage system with a single node of a corresponding storage system.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the second topology is not to comprise more than a threshold count of data protection fragments in a mapped node of the mapped storage system after the contraction of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology as a result of shifting the mapped node based on an initial count of data protection fragments comprised in the mapped node prior to the contraction of the mapped storage system.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the second topology is not to comprise more than a threshold count of data protection fragments in a mapped node of the mapped storage system after the contraction of the mapped storage system from the first topology to the second topology as a result of shifting data protection fragments of the mapped node to another mapped node prior to the contraction of the mapped storage system.
</claims>
</document>
