<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B49/00,G01V99/00,G06F30/27,G06N20/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRILLING INFO
</assignee>

<inventors>
Alexander, Jordan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607136
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING A LANDING ZONE IN A SUBTERRANEAN FORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for generating a geological model include identifying a plurality of well data for each of a plurality of wells drilled into a reservoir basin from a terranean surface. The reservoir basin includes a plurality of landing zones formed under the terranean surface, each of the landing zone including a discrete geological layer. The techniques further include comparing the plurality of well data for each well with a reservoir basin database that associates the well data with one of the plurality of landing zones; correlating each of the plurality of wells with a particular landing zone of the plurality of landing zones based on the comparison; and generating a geological model of the reservoir basin based on the correlated wells.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating a geological model, comprising: identifying, with one or more hardware processors, a plurality of well data for each of a plurality of wells drilled into a reservoir basin from a terranean surface, the reservoir basin comprising a plurality of landing zones formed under the terranean surface, each of the landing zone comprising a discrete geological layer; comparing, with the one or more hardware processors, the plurality of well data for each well with a reservoir basin database that associates the well data with one of the plurality of landing zones; correlating, with the one or more hardware processors, each of the plurality of wells with a particular landing zone of the plurality of landing zones based on the comparison; and generating, with the one or more hardware processors, a geological model of the reservoir basin based on the correlated wells.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of well data comprises surface latitude (Y), surface longitude (X), and true vertical depth (TVD).
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of well data further comprise a distance-to-horizon value between the TVD and at least one of the discrete geological layers.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising determining, with the one or more hardware processors, the distance-to-horizon value between each of the discrete geological layers and the TVD.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of well data excludes complete directional surveys.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the steps of comparing and correlating comprise executing a machine learning process.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the machine learning process comprises a tree-based machine learning process.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising validating, with the one or more hardware processors, the generated geological model.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein validating the generated geological model comprises: determining, with the one or more hardware processors, a number of mis-correlations of the plurality of wells with the particular landing zone of the plurality of landing zones; and determining, with the one or more hardware processors, that the number of mis-correlations are less than a threshold number.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein validating the generated geological model comprises: determining, with the one or more hardware processors, Shapely values for each of the plurality of well data; determining, with the one or more hardware processors, a greatest of the determined Shapely values; and determining, with the one or more hardware processors, the particular well data that corresponds to the greatest Shapely value.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, at a server computing system that stores the generated geological model, a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of one or more drilled wells in the reservoir basin; determining, with the server computing system and based on the generated geological model, a particular landing zone for each of the identified one or more drilled wells; and preparing, with the server computing system, a graphic that describes the determined particular landing zones for display at the client computing system.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, at a server computing system that stores the generated geological model, a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of the reservoir basin; determining, with the server computing system and based on the generated geological model, a plurality of wells drilled in the identified reservoir basin and a particular landing zone for each of the plurality of wells; and preparing, with the server computing system, a graphic that describes the determined plurality of wells drilled in the identified reservoir basin and the particular landing zone for each of the plurality of wells at the client computing system.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, at a server computing system that stores the generated geological model, a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of a plurality of well data for a drilled well in the reservoir basin; determining, with the server computing system and based on the generated geological model, a landing zone for the drilled well; and preparing, with the server computing system, a graphic that describes the determined landing zone for the drilled well for display at the client computing system.
14. A computing system, comprising: one or more memory modules that stores or references a plurality of well data; and one or more hardware processors configured to execute instructions stored on the one or more memory modules to perform operations comprising: identifying the plurality of well data for each of a plurality of wells drilled into a reservoir basin from a terranean surface, the reservoir basin comprising a plurality of landing zones formed under the terranean surface, each of the landing zone comprising a discrete geological layer; comparing the plurality of well data for each well with a reservoir basin database that associates the well data with one of the plurality of landing zones; correlating each of the plurality of wells with a particular landing zone of the plurality of landing zones based on the comparison; and generating a geological model of the reservoir basin based on the correlated wells.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of well data comprises surface latitude (Y), surface longitude (X), and true vertical depth (TVD).
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of well data further comprise a distance-to-horizon value between the TVD and at least one of the discrete geological layers.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise determining the distance-to-horizon value between each of the discrete geological layers and the TVD.
18. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the plurality of well data excludes complete directional surveys.
19. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the operations of comparing and correlating comprise executing a machine learning process.
20. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the machine learning process comprises a tree-based machine learning process.
21. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise validating the generated geological model.
22. The computing system of claim 21, wherein validating the generated geological model comprises: determining, with the one or more hardware processors, a number of mis-correlations of the plurality of wells with the particular landing zone of the plurality of landing zones; and determining, with the one or more hardware processors, that the number of mis-correlations are less than a threshold number.
23. The computing system of claim 21, wherein validating the generated geological model comprises: determining, with the one or more hardware processors, Shapely values for each of the plurality of well data; determining, with the one or more hardware processors, a greatest of the determined Shapely values; and determining, with the one or more hardware processors, the particular well data that corresponds to the greatest Shapely value.
24. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying or receiving a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of one or more drilled wells in the reservoir basin; determining a particular landing zone for each of the identified one or more drilled wells based on the generated geological model; and preparing a graphic that describes the determined particular landing zone for display at the client computing system.
25. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of the reservoir basin; determining a plurality of wells drilled in the identified reservoir basin and a particular landing zone for each of the plurality of wells based on the generated geological model; and preparing a graphic that describes the determined plurality of wells drilled in the identified reservoir basin and the particular landing zone for each of the plurality of wells at the client computing system.
26. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a request from a client computing system that comprises an identification of a plurality of well data for a drilled well in the reservoir basin; determining a landing zone for the drilled well based on the generated geological model; and preparing a graphic that describes the determined landing zone for the drilled well for display at the client computing system.
27. A computer-implemented method for determining one or more landing zones for a well, comprising: identifying or receiving, with one or more hardware processors, a request that comprises data associated with one or more drilled wells in a reservoir basin; based on the request, determining, with the one or more hardware processors, a particular landing zone of a plurality of landing zones for each of the identified one or more drilled wells from a geological model of the reservoir basin, the geological model comprising correlated well data of a plurality of well data of one or more wells formed in the reservoir basin into the plurality of landing zones that comprise the reservoir basin, each of the landing zones comprising a discrete geological layer; and preparing, with the one or more hardware processors, a graphic that describes the determined particular landing zone for display at a graphical user interface (GUI).
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein the plurality of well data comprises at least one of: surface latitude (Y) of the one or more wells, surface longitude (X) of the one or more wells, true vertical depth (TVD) of the one or more wells, or a distance-to-horizon value between the TVD of the one or more wells and at least one of the discrete geological layers.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein the data associated with the one or more drilled wells comprises at least one of: an identification of the one or more drilled wells; an identification of the reservoir basin; or an identification of a plurality of well data for the one or more drilled wells.
30. A computing system, comprising: one or more memory modules that stores or references a geological model of a reservoir basin; and one or more hardware processors configured to execute instructions stored on the one or more memory modules to perform operations comprising: identifying or receiving a request that comprises data associated with one or more drilled wells in the reservoir basin; based on the request, determining a particular landing zone of a plurality of landing zones for each of the identified one or more drilled wells based on the geological model of the reservoir basin, the geological model comprising correlated well data of a plurality of well data of one or more wells formed in the reservoir basin into the plurality of landing zones that comprise the reservoir basin, each of the landing zones comprising a discrete geological layer; and preparing a graphic that describes the determined particular landing zone for display at a graphical user interface (GUI).
31. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the plurality of well data comprises at least one of: surface latitude (Y) of the one or more wells, surface longitude (X) of the one or more wells, true vertical depth (TVD) of the one or more wells, or a distance-to-horizon value between the TVD of the one or more wells and at least one of the discrete geological layers.
32. The computing system of claim 30, wherein the data associated with the one or more drilled wells comprises at least one of: an identification of the one or more drilled wells; an identification of the reservoir basin; or an identification of a plurality of well data for the one or more drilled wells.
</claims>
</document>
