<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06F3/0482,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELASTICSEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, RON
MAKWARTH, RASMUS
Martin, Mathieu
Paquette, Michael D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72615118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Integration of Application Performance Monitoring with Logs and Infrastructure Using a Common Schema
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and corresponding systems for integration of different data for a distributed search, visualization and analysis platform, the method comprising automatically correlating data sources associated with execution of an application, the data from the data sources adhering to a common schema. The method further comprises providing a separate UI for each of the data sources for visualization and analysis; for each UI, providing a menu for selecting other correlated data sources; and in response to a menu selection, causing display of the other correlated data source and its corresponding UI. The data sources may include application performance monitoring (APM) data, log data, and infrastructure data. The common schema provides a core set of fields to be used in event messages stored for APM data, log data, and infrastructure data, and is configured to enable adding new data sources while enabling reuse of existing analysis content for the new data sources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing integration of different data for a distributed search, data visualization and analysis platform, the method comprising: automatically correlating a plurality of data sources associated with execution of an application, at least some of the data, from each of at least two of the plurality of data sources, adhering to a common schema; providing a separate user interface (UI) for each of the plurality of data sources for data visualization and analysis; for each of the separate UIs, providing a menu for selecting one of the other correlated data sources associated with the other UIs; and in response to a menu selection by a user, causing display of the other correlated data source and corresponding UI to the user; wherein the common schema further provides a set of rules for naming fields for consistency in the common schema; wherein a platform enforces the set of rules for the common schema; and wherein the common schema includes a superset of predefined fields and corresponding data types, the platform enforcing that the customization not conflict with a superset of predefined fields.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein all of the data from each of the plurality of data sources adheres to the common schema.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of data sources includes application performance monitoring data, log data, and infrastructure data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the log data is from one or more services invoked for the execution, infrastructure data is associated with the execution, and the application performance monitoring (APM) data comprises trace information indicating in real time at least execution time information for the one or more services.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the common schema provides for core, common fields for certain data appearing in different ones of the plurality of data sources.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the common schema includes a list of names of fields, corresponding field types, and corresponding field definitions.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the common schema defines a common set of document fields to be used in event messages stored for application performance monitoring data, log data, and infrastructure.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising configuring the common schema so as to enable the addition of a new data source and also enabling reuse of existing analysis content for the new data source.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the existing analysis content includes searches, visualizations, dashboards, alerts, reports, and machine learning jobs.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the common schema provides for customization by a user a new field based on at least one of the core, common fields for ones of the plurality of data sources.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving inputs from a user for customizing a field for a particular one of the plurality of data sources.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the inputs specify particular key value pairs associated with one or more unique fields, corresponding data types, and functionality enabled thereby.
13. 13-15. (canceled)
16. The method of claim 11, wherein a rename processor for renaming a unique field to a matching core, common field when a name for a customized field conflicts with a predefined object of the common schema.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the menu for each of the separate UIs includes a plurality of selectable actions, the method further comprising, in response to user selection of one of the plurality of selectable actions, causing display of data, associated with the selectable action, via the separate UI for the selected other data source.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of selectable actions includes show container logs, show host logs, show container metrics, and show host metrics.
19. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform a method for integration of application performance monitoring with logs and infrastructure data, the method comprising: automatically correlating a plurality of data sources associated with execution of an application, at least some of the data, from each of at least two of the plurality of data sources, adhering to a common schema; providing a separate user interface (UI) for each of the plurality of data sources for data visualization and analysis; for each of the separate UIs, providing a menu for selecting one of the other correlated data sources associated with the other UIs; and in response to a menu selection by a user, causing display of the other correlated data source and corresponding UI to the user; wherein the common schema further provides a set of rules for naming fields for consistency in the common schema; wherein a platform enforces the set of rules for the common schema; and wherein the common schema includes a superset of predefined fields and corresponding data types, the platform enforcing that the customization not conflict with a superset of predefined fields.
20. A computer-implemented method for providing integration of log data, infrastructure data, and application performance monitoring data in a microservices architecture, the method comprising: automatically correlating a plurality of data sources associated with execution of an application, the data adhering to a common schema, the plurality of data sources including application performance monitoring (APM) data, log data, and infrastructure data; providing a separate user interface (UI) for each of the plurality of data sources for data visualization and data analysis; for each of the separate UIs, providing a menu for selecting one of the other correlated data sources associated with the other UIs; and in response to a menu selection by a user, causing display of the other correlated data source and corresponding UI to the user; wherein the common schema further provides a set of rules for naming fields for consistency in the common schema; wherein a platform enforces the set of rules for the common schema; and wherein the common schema includes a superset of predefined fields and corresponding data types, the platform enforcing that the customization not conflict with a superset of predefined fields.
</claims>
</document>
