<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, Youngsoo
PARK, Yongcheol
SEO, Youngmin
LEE, Jineui
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515374
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE INCLUDING IMAGE SENSOR AND METHOD OF OPERATING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device according to various embodiments may include an image sensor including a plurality of photodiodes, a display including a plurality of patterned openings, and a processor. The processor may be configured to control the electronic device to: acquire, through the image sensor, a first image using a plurality of incident light beams for a subject which pass through at least one of the plurality of openings, at least some of the plurality of incident light beams overlapping each other; acquire a second image representing the subject from the first image using a transfer function corresponding to the plurality of openings; and acquire information on the subject using the second image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: an image sensor including a plurality of photodiodes; a display including a plurality of patterned openings; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire, through the image sensor, a first image using a plurality of incident light beams for a subject which pass through at least one of the plurality of openings, at least some of the plurality of incident light beams overlapping each other; acquire a second image representing the subject from the first image using a transfer function corresponding to the plurality of openings; and acquire information on the subject using the second image.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of openings include at least one of a linear pattern or a nonlinear pattern.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: identify a fingerprint on the subject using the second image.
4. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: identify information on a valley and a peak of the fingerprint using the second image.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: identify a motion of the subject using the second image.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the transfer function includes a value corresponding to a degree to which at least some of a plurality of incident light beams passing through a coded pattern formed by the plurality of openings overlap each other.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire a plurality of images using a plurality of light beams for each of specific objects which pass through at least one of the plurality of openings, at least some of the plurality of light beams overlapping each other; and acquire the transfer function based on a relationship between a specific value corresponding to each of the specific objects and a value for each of the plurality of images.
8. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein the specific objects include objects having different shapes and/or brightnesses.
9. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire the plurality of images for at least one object among the specific objects based on a change of height between the at least one object and the display.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the image sensor is in direct contact with the display.
11. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: output, through the display, light beams of a first type having a specific pattern; acquire a third image using first light beams reflected by a reflector outside the display and passing through at least one of the plurality of openings among the light beams of the first type, at least some of the first light beams overlapping each other; and acquire the transfer function based on a relationship between a specific value corresponding the light beams of the first type and a value for the third image.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: output, through the display, light beams of a second type having a specific pattern instead of the light beams of the first type; acquire a fourth image using second light beams reflected by the reflector outside the display and passing through at least one of the plurality of openings among the light beams of the second type, at least some of the second light beams overlapping each other; and acquire the transfer function further based on a relationship between a specific value corresponding the light beams of the second type and a value for the fourth image.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire, based on a change of height between the reflector and the display, a fifth image using third light beams reflected by the reflector outside the display and passing through at least one of the plurality of openings among the light beams of the first type, at least some of the third light beams overlapping each other; and acquire the transfer function further based on a relationship between the specific value corresponding the light beams of the first type and a value for the fifth image.
14. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire, through at least one first element corresponding to a first color included in the display, a first color image by outputting the light beams of the first type having the first color, and by sensing, by the image sensor, the light beams having the first color and reflected by the reflector; acquire, through at least one second element corresponding to a second color included in the display, a second color image by outputting the light beams of the first type having the second color, and by sensing, by the image sensor, the light beams having the second color and reflected by the reflector; and acquire a transfer function making it possible to identify depth information of the subject, based on a difference between the first color image and the second color image.
15. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: output, through the display, a plurality of light beams corresponding to a specific color; and identify depth information of the subject using a difference in brightness between light beams sensed by the image sensor based on the plurality of light beams being reflected by the subject.
16. A method of operating an electronic device, the method comprising: acquiring, through an image sensor of the electronic device, a first image using a plurality of incident light beams for a subject which pass through at least one of a plurality of patterned openings of a display included in the electronic device, at least some of the plurality of incident light beams overlapping each other; acquiring a second image representing the subject from the first image using a transfer function corresponding to the plurality of openings; and acquiring information on the subject using the second image.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the acquiring of information about the subject includes: identifying a fingerprint on the subject using the second image.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: identifying information on a valley and a peak of the fingerprint using the second image.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the transfer function includes a value for a degree to which at least some of a plurality of incident light beams passing through a coded pattern formed by the plurality of openings overlap each other.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: acquiring a plurality of images using a plurality of light beams for each of specific objects which pass through at least one of the plurality of openings, at least some of the plurality of light beams overlapping each other; and acquiring the transfer function based on a relationship between a specific value corresponding to each of the specific objects and a value for each of the plurality of images.
</claims>
</document>
