<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F16/00,G06F16/21,G06F16/215,G06F16/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEPHENS, ROBERT TODD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403881
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Database metadata and methods to adapt the same
</title>

<abstract>
Database metadata and methods to adapt the same are disclosed. An example method includes determining, by executing a first instruction with a processor, a first database field pattern assigned to a field of a database, the first database field pattern assigned to the field via metadata for the database, determining, by executing a second instruction with the processor, an error rate of the data for the field with the first database field pattern, and in response to determining that the error rate meets a threshold: identifying, by executing a third instruction with the processor, a second database field pattern that matches the data; and modifying, by executing a fourth instruction with the processor, the metadata to assign the second database field pattern to the field.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to manage database metadata, the method comprising: determining, by executing an instruction with a processor, a first database field pattern assigned to a field of a database, the first database field pattern assigned to the field via metadata for the database; counting a number of mismatches between entries in the field and the first database field pattern; determining, by executing an instruction with the processor, an error rate based on the number of mismatches; and in response to determining that the error rate meets a threshold: identifying, by executing an instruction with the processor, a second database field pattern that matches a first subset of the entries in the field; and modifying, by executing an instruction with the processor, the metadata to assign the second database field pattern to the field.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the second database field pattern includes identifying the second database field pattern corresponding to a classification of the entries in the field not matching the first database field pattern.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying of the metadata includes replacing the first database field pattern with the second database field pattern.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying of the metadata is performed in response to determining that a first rate at which the entries match the second database field pattern exceeds a second rate at which the entries match the first database field pattern.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the second database field pattern includes analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the error rate includes analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first database field pattern is assigned to the field in a metadata repository associated with the database.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the field is a first field, and wherein the method further comprises, in response to determining that the error rate meets the threshold: moving a second subset of the entries that match the first database field pattern to a second field of the database; and assigning the first database field pattern to the second field.
9. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and memory including machine readable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: determining a first database field pattern assigned to a field of a database, the first database field pattern assigned to the field via metadata; counting a number of mismatches between entries in the field and the first database field pattern; determining an error rate based on the number of mismatches; and in response to determining that the error rate meets a threshold: identifying a second database field pattern that matches a first subset of the entries in the field; and modifying the metadata to assign the second database field pattern to the field.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the modifying the metadata is performed in response to a first rate at which the entries match the second database field pattern exceeding a second rate at which the entries match the first database field pattern.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier to identify the second database field pattern.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the determining the error rate includes analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first database field pattern is assigned to the field in a metadata repository associated with the database.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the field is a first field, and wherein the operations further comprise in response to determining that the error rate meets the threshold: moving a second subset of the entries that match the first database field pattern to a second field of the database; and assigning the first database field pattern to the second field.
15. A tangible machine readable storage medium comprising instructions which, when executed, cause a machine to at least perform operations comprising: determining a first database field pattern assigned to a field of a database, the first database field pattern assigned to the field via metadata for the database; counting a number of mismatches between entries in the field and the first database field pattern; determining an error rate for the field based on the number of mismatches; and in response to determining that the error rate satisfies a threshold: identifying a second database field pattern that matches a first subset of the entries; and modifying the metadata to assign the second database field pattern to the field.
16. The tangible machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the modifying the metadata is performed in response to a first rate at which the entries match the second database field pattern meeting a second rate at which the entries match the first database field pattern.
17. The tangible machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the identifying of the second database field pattern is performed by analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier.
18. The tangible machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the determining of the error rate is performed by analyzing the entries with a machine learning classifier.
19. The tangible machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first database field pattern is assigned to the field in a metadata repository associated with the database.
20. The tangible machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the field is a first field, and the operations further comprise, in response to the error rate satisfying the threshold: moving a second subset of the entries that matches the first database field pattern to a second field of the database; and assigning the first database field pattern to the second field.
</claims>
</document>
