<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/445,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LE BIANNIC, YANN
MAKANAWALA, PRERNA
K, PRAJESH
J, KARTHIK S.
GLANTSCHNIG, GEORG
YE, JING
DEY, SUBHOBRATA
HE, XIAOQING
KARAT, ARJUN
THOSAR, RIYA
HE, AMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727224
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPLYING SCORING SYSTEMS USING AN AUTO-MACHINE LEARNING CLASSIFICATION APPROACH
</title>

<abstract>
A method of improving usability and transparency of machine-learning aspects of applications providing various types of services is disclosed. Based on a request submitted through an administrative user interface, a data readiness check is performed on underlying data associated with the application. Based on a successful completion of the data readiness check, a configuration file is retrieved from an application server. The configuration file specifies a plurality of keys for generating a machine-learned model for the application. The machine-learned model is trained based on the plurality of keys specified in the configuration file. The machine-learned model is selected from a plurality of machine-learned models based on dry runs of the each of the plurality of models. The machine-learned model is activated with respect to the application. Scores are identified from the underlying data items based on the selected machine-learned model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer memories; a set of instructions incorporated into the one or more computer memories, the set of instructions configuring the one or more computer processors to perform operations for improving usability and transparency of machine-learning aspects of an application scoring of underlying data items, the operations comprising: based on a request submitted through an administrative user interface to add a machine-learned model to a data object associated with the application for the scoring of the underlying data items, performing a data readiness check on the underlying data items; based on a successful completion of the data readiness check, retrieving a configuration file from an application server, the configuration file specifying a plurality of keys for generating the machine-learned model; training the machine-learned model based on the plurality of keys specified in the configuration file; selecting the machine-learned model from a plurality of machine-learned models based on dry runs of the each of the plurality of models on the underlying data items; and activating the machine-learned model with respect to the application, the activating including generating scores for the underlying data items based on the machine-learned model.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising presenting a visual representation of the configuration file in an interactive user interface, the interactive user interface allowing an administrator to modify the configuration file to add or remove sampling methods, feature templates, or data sources.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the activating of the machine-learned model is based on a request received through the administrative user interface to activate the machine-learned model.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data readiness check includes verifying that the data passes configurable minimum levels of quality and quantity.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further including generating strengths of each of a plurality of features corresponding to the scores with respect to its predictive impact.
6. The system of claim 1, the operations further including modifying one or more other configuration files of the plurality of configuration files based on a measure of the predictive success of the machine-learned model.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the configuration file is selected from a plurality of pre-defined configuration files corresponding based on a matching of the underlying data to types of data for which the pre-defined configuration files were optimized.
8. A method comprising: performing operations, using one or more computer processors, for improving usability and transparency of machine-learning aspects of an application for scoring of data items, the operations comprising: based on a request submitted through an administrative user interface to add a machine-learned model to a data object associated with the application for the scoring of the underlying data items, performing a data readiness check on the underlying data items; based on a successful completion of the data readiness check, retrieving a configuration file from an application server, the configuration file specifying a plurality of keys for generating the machine-learned model; training the machine-learned model based on the plurality of keys specified in the configuration file; selecting the machine-learned model from a plurality of machine-learned models based on dry runs of the each of the plurality of models on the underlying data items; and activating the machine-learned model with respect to the application, the activating including generating scores for the underlying data items based on the machine-learned model.
9. The method of claim 8, the operations further comprising presenting a visual representation of the configuration file in an interactive user interface, the interactive user interface allowing an administrator to modify the configuration file to add or remove sampling methods, feature templates, or data sources.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the activating of the machine-learned model is based on a request received through the administrative user interface to activate the machine-learned model.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the data readiness check includes verifying that the data passes configurable minimum levels of quality and quantity.
12. The method of claim 8, the operations further including generating strengths of each of a plurality of features corresponding to the scores with respect to its predictive impact.
13. The method of claim 8, the operations further including modifying one or more other configuration files of the plurality of configuration files based on a measure of the predictive success of the machine-learned model.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the configuration file is selected from a plurality of pre-defined configuration files corresponding based on a matching of the underlying data to types of data for which the pre-defined configuration files were optimized.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium storing a plurality of instructions that, when implemented by one or more computer processors, cause the one or more computer processors to perform operations for improving usability and transparency of machine-learning aspects of an application for scoring of underlying data items, the operations comprising: based on a request submitted through an administrative user interface to add a machine-learned model to a data object associated with the application for the scoring of the underlying data items, performing a data readiness check on the underlying data items; based on a successful completion of the data readiness check, retrieving a configuration file from an application server, the configuration file specifying a plurality of keys for generating the machine-learned model; training the machine-learned model based on the plurality of keys specified in the configuration file; selecting the machine-learned model from a plurality of machine-learned models based on dry runs of the each of the plurality of models on the underlying data items; and activating the machine-learned model with respect to the application, the activating including generating scores for the underlying data items based on the machine-learned model.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising presenting a visual representation of the configuration file in an interactive user interface, the interactive user interface allowing an administrator to modify the configuration file to add or remove sampling methods, feature templates, or data sources.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the activating of the machine-learned model is based on a request received through the administrative user interface to activate the machine-learned model.
18. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the data readiness check includes verifying that the data passes configurable minimum levels of quality and quantity.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further including generating strengths of each of a plurality of features corresponding to the scores with respect to its predictive impact.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further including modifying one or more other configuration files of the plurality of configuration files based on a measure of the predictive success of the machine-learned model.
</claims>
</document>
