<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01K1/04,G01N17/04,G01N25/72,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AL SHEHRI, ALI
AMER, AYMAN
PARROTT, BRIAN
SARRAJ, MOHAMMED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63915349
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
THERMOGRAPHY IMAGE PROCESSING WITH NEURAL NETWORKS TO IDENTIFY CORROSION UNDER INSULATION (CUI)
</title>

<abstract>
A method for identifying corrosion under insulation (CUI) in a structure comprises receiving thermographs from the structure using an infrared camera, applying filters to the thermograph using a first machine learning system, initially determining a CUI classification based on output from the filters, and validating the initial CUI classification by an inspection of the structure. The first machine learning system is trained using results of the validation. Outputs of the first machine learning system and additional structural and environmental data are fed into a second machine learning system that incorporates information from earlier states into current states. The second machine learning system is trained to identify CUI according to changes in the outputs of the first machine learning system and the additional data over time until a second threshold for CUI classification accuracy is reached. CUI is thereafter identified using the first and second machine learning systems in coordination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-18. (canceled)
19. A computer-implemented method for identifying corrosion under insulation (CUI) in a structure using filters trained by a first machine learning system to a first threshold for CUI classification accuracy, comprising: receiving a thermograph captured from the structure using an infrared radiation sensor and additional data related to the structure and environmental conditions; inputting outputs of the first machine learning system and additional data related to the structure and environment conditions into a second machine learning system that includes a boosting algorithm, the second machine learning system being arranged to incorporate information from earlier states into current states; training the second machine learning system to identify CUI according to changes in the outputs of the first machine learning system and the additional data over time until a second threshold for CUI classification accuracy is reached; and after the second threshold is reached, identifying CUI in the structure based on received thermograph and additional data using the first and second machine learning systems in coordination.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the first machine learning system includes a convolutional neural network.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the boosting algorithm comprises an AdaBoost adaptive boosting algorithm arranged to increase accuracy of the second machine learning system.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the second machine learning system includes a recurrent neural network.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein the additional data includes ambient temperature, physical characteristics of the structure and weather conditions measured over time.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the first and second machine learning systems are trained to recognize false positive findings relative to reflection of infrared radiation from objects external from the structure.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein identification of CUI includes identifying vulnerable areas of the structure under the insulation that confine moisture with a high likelihood.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, further comprising: validating an initial CUI classification by an inspection of the structure, wherein validation is performed using at least two of pulsed eddy current evaluation, visual inspection, insulation removal and ultrasonic testing of wall thinning.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, further comprising preprocessing the thermograph data and the additional data to encode categorical variables and normalize continuous variables.
28. A system for identifying corrosion under insulation (CUI) in a structure using filters trained by a first machine learning system to a first threshold for CUI classification accuracy, comprising: a computer system including a processor, memory and a communication module, the processor being configured to execute a program that performs steps of: receiving a thermograph captured from the structure using an infrared radiation sensor and additional data related to the structure and environmental conditions; inputting outputs of the first machine learning system and additional data related to the structure and environment conditions into a second machine learning system that includes a boosting algorithm, the second machine learning system being arranged to incorporate information from earlier states into current states; training the second machine learning system to identify CUI according to changes in the outputs of the first machine learning system and the additional data over time until a second threshold for CUI classification accuracy is reached; and after the first and second thresholds are reached, identifying CUI in the structure based on current thermograph and additional data using the first and second machine learning systems in coordination.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the first machine learning system includes a convolutional neural network.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein the boosting algorithm comprises an AdaBoost adaptive boosting algorithm arranged to increase accuracy of the second machine learning system.
31. The system of claim 28, wherein the second machine learning system includes a recurrent neural network.
32. The system of claim 28, wherein the additional data includes ambient temperature, physical characteristics of the structure and weather conditions measured over time.
33. The system of claim 28, wherein the first and second machine learning systems are trained to recognize false positive findings relative to reflection of infrared radiation from objects external from the structure.
34. The system of claim 28, wherein identification of CUI includes identifying vulnerable areas of the structure under the insulation that confine moisture with a high likelihood.
35. The system of claim 28, wherein the processor is configured to execute the program that performs a further step of: validating an initial CUI classification by an inspection of the structure, wherein validation is performed using at least two of pulsed eddy current evaluation, visual inspection, insulation removal and ultrasonic testing of wall thinning.
36. The system of claim 28, wherein the computer system preprocesses the thermograph data and the additional data to encode categorical variables and normalize continuous variables.
</claims>
</document>
