<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,G06F16/951,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WIGGINS; CHRISTOPHER
REVESZ, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
46178804
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CATEGORIZING AND MODERATING USER-GENERATED CONTENT IN AN ONLINE ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Exemplary embodiments provide systems, devices and methods for computer-based categorization and moderation of user-generated content for publication of the content in an online environment. Exemplary embodiments automatically determine a probability value indicating that the user-generated content is either a positive example or a negative example of one or more unsuitable categories. If the user-generated content is determined to be a positive example of any of the unsuitable categories to a predefined degree of certainty, exemplary embodiments may automatically exclude the content from publication in the online environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-59. (canceled)
60. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, at at least one server, content to be published in an online environment; processing the content at the at least one server using a machine learning system implementing a machine learning algorithm embodied on one or more computer-readable media to calculate a first numeric likelihood that the content falls into a first selected category unsuitable for publication; comparing the first numeric likelihood to a first set of threshold values associated with the first selected category and stored in a database corresponding to the at least one server; and determining whether to electronically publish the content in the online environment or exclude the content from publication based on the comparison of the first numeric likelihood to the first set of threshold values.
61. The computer-implemented of claim 60, wherein the received content is generated by a user, and the method further comprises assigning, to the user, a value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
62. The method of claim 61, further comprising: establishing that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page based on the assigned value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
63. The method of claim 60, further comprising, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the threshold value, determining whether the computed numeric likelihood exceeds an additional threshold value.
64. The method of claim 63, further comprising establishing that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the additional threshold value.
65. The method of claim 60, further comprising: identifying whether the content is comprised of non-word textual features.
66. The method of claim 60, wherein: storing, at the computer-readable media, one or more of a unique user ID, a total number of content generated by the user, or the total number of content generated by the user excluded from publication.
67. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and a storage device that stores a set of instructions, the set of instructions being executable by the at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to implement the steps of: receiving, at at least one server, content to be published in an online environment; processing the content at the at least one server using a machine learning system implementing a machine learning algorithm embodied on one or more computer-readable media to calculate a first numeric likelihood that the content falls into a first selected category unsuitable for publication; comparing the first numeric likelihood to a first set of threshold values associated with the first selected category and stored in a database corresponding to the at least one server; and determining whether to electronically publish the content in the online environment or exclude the content from publication based on the comparison of the first numeric likelihood to the first set of threshold values.
68. The system of claim 67, wherein the received content is generated by a user, and the method further comprises assigning, to the user, a value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
69. The system of claim 68, wherein the system is further configured to execute the method further comprising: establishing that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page based on the assigned value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
70. The system of claim 67, further comprising, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the threshold value, determining whether the computed numeric likelihood exceeds an additional threshold value.
71. The system of claim 70, further comprising establishing that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the additional threshold value.
72. The system of claim 67, further comprising: identifying whether the content is comprised of non-word textual features.
73. The system of claim 67, wherein: storing, at the computer-readable media, one or more of a unique user ID, a total number of content generated by the user, or the total number of content generated by the user excluded from publication.
74. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, at at least one server, content to be published in an online environment; processing the content at the at least one server using a machine learning system implementing a machine learning algorithm embodied on one or more computer-readable media to calculate a first numeric likelihood that the content falls into a first selected category unsuitable for publication; comparing the first numeric likelihood to a first set of threshold values associated with the first selected category and stored in a database corresponding to the at least one server; and determining whether to electronically publish the content in the online environment or exclude the content from publication based on the comparison of the first numeric likelihood to the first set of threshold values.
75. The computer-readable medium of claim 74, wherein the received content is generated by a user, and the method further comprises assigning, to the user, a value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
76. The computer-readable medium of claim 75, wherein the set of instructions further cause the at least one processor to: establish that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page based on the assigned value indicative of a capability of the user to generate content suitable for publication on the web page.
77. The computer-readable medium of claim 74, further comprising, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the threshold value, determining whether the computed numeric likelihood exceeds an additional threshold value.
78. The computer-readable medium of claim 77, further comprising establishing that the content is unsuitable for publication on the web page, when the computed numeric likelihood is determined to exceed the additional threshold value.
79. The computer-readable medium of claim 74, further comprising: storing, at the computer-readable media, one or more of a unique user ID, a total number of content generated by the user, or the total number of content generated by the user excluded from publication.
</claims>
</document>
