<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G47/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, SANG EUN
MARTINEZ, CARLOS
HUANG, JINMIAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465144
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object Grasp System and Method
</title>

<abstract>
A grasping system includes a robotic arm having a gripper. A fixed sensor monitors a grasp area and an onboard sensor moves with the gripper also monitors the area. A controller receives information indicative of a position of an object to be grasped and operates the robotic arm to bring the gripper into a grasp position adjacent the object based on information provided by the fixed sensor. The controller is also programmed to operate the gripper to grasp the object in response to information provided by the first onboard sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An object grasp system, comprising: a robotic arm assembly having a distal end, the distal end being selectively moveable by the robotic arm with respect to a fixed frame; a gripper disposed on the distal end, the gripper adapted to grasp an object located in an area; a fixed sensor disposed to monitor the area and positioned in a stationary fashion relative to the fixed frame; a first onboard sensor disposed to move with the gripper on the distal end of the robotic arm, the first onboard sensor disposed to monitor the area; and a controller operably associated with the robotic arm assembly and the gripper and operating to control an operation thereof; the controller further operably associated with the fixed sensor and the first onboard sensor and disposed to receive information therefrom indicative of a position of the object and the gripper with respect to the fixed frame, and also a position of the object relative to the gripper, the controller being programmed to: operate the robotic arm assembly to bring the gripper into a grasp position adjacent the object based on information provided by the fixed sensor; and operate the gripper to grasp the object in response to information provided by the first onboard sensor.
2. The object grasp system of claim 1, wherein the fixed sensor is a camera providing visual information to the controller indicative of a spatial location of the object in a three dimensional space related to the fixed frame.
3. The object grasp system of claim 1, wherein the first onboard sensor is a camera mounted on the distal end of the robotic arm assembly adjacent the gripper, and wherein the first onboard sensor provides visual information to the controller indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper.
4. The object grasp system of claim 1, further comprising a force/torque sensor disposed on the gripper between the gripper and the distal end of the robotic arm assembly, the force/torque sensor providing information to the controller indicative of one or more forces and one or more moments present at the distal end by the gripper while the object is grasped by the gripper.
5. The object grasp system of claim 4, wherein the controller is further programmed to automatically select a grasp location on the object, which is engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the force/torque sensor.
6. The object grasp system of claim 5, wherein the controller is further programmed to estimate a location of a center of gravity of the object based on the information provided to the controller by the force/torque sensor.
7. The object grasp system of claim 1, further comprising a tactile sensor disposed on the robotic arm assembly adjacent the distal end, the tactile sensor providing information to the controller indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper, wherein the controller is further programmed to adjust a grasp location on a subsequent object, which was already engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the tactile sensor for a previous object engaged by the gripper.
8. The object grasp system of claim 1, further comprising an inertia sensor disposed on the gripper, the inertia sensor providing information to the controller indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper, wherein the controller is further programmed to adjust a grasp location on a subsequent object, which was already engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the inertia sensor for a previous object engaged by the gripper.
9. A method for grasping an object with a gripper disposed on a distal end of a robotic arm assembly, the method comprising: determining a spatial position of an object relative to a fixed frame of reference using a fixed sensor; determining a position of a gripper attached to a distal end of a robotic arm relative to the object using the fixed sensor; activating the robotic arm to move the gripper into a grasping position relative to a first object; grasping the first object with the gripper; evaluating a quality of the grasp using an onboard sensor associated with the robotic arm; and adjusting the grasping position relative to a second object based on the evaluation of the quality of the grasp of the first object; wherein adjusting the grasping location is performed automatically by a controller based on information provided by the fixed sensor and the onboard sensor.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the robotic arm has a distal end that is selectively moveable by the robotic arm with respect to a fixed frame, and wherein the controller is further disposed to provide commands the activate motion of the robotic arm and operation of the gripper.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the spatial location of the object is accomplished by visual information provided to the controller by a fixed sensor that is stationary relative to the fixed frame.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the position of the gripper relative to the object is accomplished at least in part based on the visual information provided by the fixed sensor, and further based on visual information provided to the controller by an onboard sensor configured to move along with the robotic arm.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein adjusting the grasping position includes processing information in the controller indicative of one or more forces and one or more moments present at the distal end by the gripper while the object is grasped by the gripper, the information provided by a force/torque sensor disposed for measurement between the gripper and the distal end.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising estimating a center of gravity of the first object with the controller, and adjusting the grasping location on the second object based on the estimation.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein estimating the center of gravity is based on the information provided by the force/torque sensor while the first object is grasped in the gripper.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising a tactile sensor a tactile sensor disposed on the robotic arm adjacent the distal end, the tactile sensor providing information to the controller indicative of a position of the first object relative to the gripper, wherein adjusting the grasping location is based on information provided to the controller from the tactile sensor.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the tactile sensor operates to sense slipping of the first object relative to the gripper.
18. A robotic arm having a gripper disposed on a distal end thereof, the robotic arm operating to move the gripper relative to a fixed frame of reference, the gripper adapted to grasp an object disposed in a grasping area that is stationary relative to the fixed frame of reference, the robotic arm further comprising: a fixed camera disposed to monitor the area, the fixed camera disposed stationary relative to the fixed frame of reference, the fixed camera providing visual information indicative of a position of the object relative to the area; an onboard camera disposed to move with the gripper on the distal end of the robotic arm, the onboard camera disposed to monitor the area, the onboard camera providing visual information indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper; a force/torque sensor disposed on the gripper between the gripper and the distal end of the robotic arm assembly; and a controller operably associated with the robotic arm and the gripper, the controller operating to control operation of the robotic arm and the gripper; the controller further operably associated with the fixed camera, the onboard camera, and the force/torque sensor, the controller disposed to receive information therefrom indicative of: a position of the object and the gripper with respect to the fixed frame from the fixed camera, a position of the object relative to the gripper from the onboard camera, and one or more forces and one or more moments present at the distal end by the gripper while the object is grasped by the gripper from the force/torque sensor; the controller being programmed to: operate the robotic arm assembly to bring the gripper into a grasp position adjacent the object based on information provided by the fixed camera; operate the gripper to grasp the object in response to information provided by the onboard camera; automatically select a grasp location on the object, which is engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the force/torque sensor; and estimate a location of a center of gravity of the object based on the information provided to the controller by the force/torque sensor.
19. The robotic arm of claim 18, further comprising a tactile sensor disposed on the robotic arm adjacent the distal end, the tactile sensor providing information to the controller indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper, wherein the controller is further programmed to adjust a grasp location on a subsequent object, which was already engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the tactile sensor for a previous object engaged by the gripper.
20. The robotic arm of claim 18, further comprising an inertia sensor disposed on the gripper, the inertia sensor providing information to the controller indicative of a position of the object relative to the gripper, wherein the controller is further programmed to adjust a grasp location on a subsequent object, which was already engaged by the gripper, based on the information provided to the controller by the inertia sensor for a previous object engaged by the gripper.
</claims>
</document>
