<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/08,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FEI COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
POTOCEK, PAVEL
VYSTAV{HACEK OVER (E)}L, TOMÁ{HACEK OVER (S)}
Machek, Ond{hacek over (r)}ej
Strako{hacek over (s)}, Libor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179426
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Training an artificial neural network using simulated specimen images
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for training an artificial neural network (ANN) using simulated specimen images are described. Simulated specimen images are generated based on data models. The data models describe characteristics of a crystalline material and characteristics of one or more defect types. The data models do not include any image data. Simulated specimen images are input as training data into a training algorithm to generate an artificial neural network (ANN) for identifying defects in crystalline materials. After the ANN is trained, the ANN analyzes captured specimen images to identify defects shown therein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more hardware devices, cause performance of operations comprising: obtaining a first data model comprising: (a) one or more characteristics of a crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a first defect type; applying the first data model to a simulation model to generate a first simulated specimen image, wherein the first simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a first set of one or more defects of the first defect type; inputting a set of one or more simulated specimen images, including the first simulated specimen image, as training data into a training algorithm to generate an artificial neural network; generating the artificial neural network, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to detect a second set of one or more defects of the first defect type in the crystalline material as shown in a set of one or more scanned specimen images.
2. The medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material comprise one or more of: (a) one or more characteristics of a substrate of the crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a target layer, above the substrate, of the crystalline material.
3. The medium of claim 1, wherein the first data model further comprises: one or more characteristics of a first microscope.
4. The medium of claim 3, wherein the first microscope comprises an electron microscope.
5. The medium of claim 3, wherein: the operations further comprise: obtaining a second data model comprising: (a) the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material, (b) the one or more characteristics of the first defect type, and (c) one or more characteristics of a second microscope different than the one or more characteristics of the first microscope; applying at least the second data model to the simulation model to generate a second simulated specimen image, wherein the second simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a third set of one or more defects of the first defect type; the set of simulated specimen images comprises: the first simulated specimen image and the second simulated specimen image.
6. The medium of claim 5, wherein obtaining the second data model comprises generating the second data model by modifying the first data model.
7. The medium of claim 5, wherein: the one or more characteristics of the first microscope comprises a first value for a microscopy parameter of the first microscope; the one or more characteristics of the second microscope comprises a second value for the microscopy parameter of the second microscope; and the microscopy parameter comprises at least one of: a dwell time; a resolution; an accelerating voltage; a beam current; a convergence angle; and a spot size.
8. The medium of claim 1, wherein the first data model further comprises: one or more characteristics of a first image noise.
9. The medium of claim 8, wherein: the operations further comprise: obtaining a second data model comprising: (a) the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material, (b) the one or more characteristics of the first defect type, and (c) one or more characteristics of a second image noise different than the one or more characteristics of the first image noise; applying at least the second data model to the simulation model to generate a second simulated specimen image, wherein the second simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a third set of one or more defects of the first defect type; the set of simulated specimen images comprises: the first simulated specimen image and the second simulated specimen image.
10. The medium of claim 1, wherein applying the first data model to the simulation model to generate the first simulated specimen image comprises: applying the first data model to a scanning simulation model to generate a raw simulated specimen image showing the crystalline material including the first set of defects of the first defect type; obtaining a particular scanned specimen image showing the crystalline material; combining (a) a portion of the raw specimen image and (b) a portion of the particular scanned specimen image; generating the first simulated specimen image comprising (a) the portion of the raw specimen image and (b) the portion of the particular scanned specimen image.
11. The medium of claim 10, wherein the portion of the particular scanned specimen image includes a dust particle.
12. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining a second data model comprising: (a) the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material, and (b) the one or more characteristics of the first defect type; applying the second data model to the simulation model to generate a second simulated specimen image, wherein the second simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a third set of one or more defects of the first defect type; determining whether a visibility of the third set of one or more defects satisfies a criteria; responsive to determining that the visibility of the third set of one or more defects does not satisfy a criteria: refraining from inputting the second simulated specimen image as the training data into the training algorithm to generate the artificial neural network.
13. The medium of claim 1, wherein inputting the set of simulated specimen images, including the first simulated specimen image, as the training data into the training algorithm to generate the artificial neural network is responsive to determining that a visibility of the first set of one or more defects satisfies a criteria.
14. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the operations further comprise: obtaining a second data model comprising: (a) the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a second defect type; applying at least the second data model to the simulation model to generate a second simulated specimen image, wherein the second simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a third set of one or more defects of the second defect type; the set of simulated specimen images comprises: the first simulated specimen image and the second simulated specimen image; the artificial neural network is further configured to detect a fourth set of one or more defects of the second defect type in the crystalline material as shown in the set of scanned specimen images.
15. The medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining information indicating a first accuracy of the artificial neural network for detecting the second set of defects of the first defect type and a second accuracy of the artificial neural network for detecting a fourth set of defects of the second defect type; responsive to determining that the first accuracy is less than the second accuracy; obtaining a third data model comprising: (a) the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material, and (b) the one or more characteristics of the first defect type; applying the third data set to the simulation model to generate a third simulated specimen image, wherein the third simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a fifth set of one or more defects of the first defect type; inputting a second set of simulated specimen images as the training data into the training algorithm to generate a modified artificial neural network, wherein the second set of simulated specimen images (a) includes the set of simulated specimen images and the third simulated specimen image, and (b) does not include any additional simulated specimen image showing the crystalline material including any defects of the second defect type; generating the modified artificial neural network.
16. The medium of claim 1, applying the artificial neural network to detect the second set of defects of the first defect type in the crystalline material as shown in the set of scanned specimen images.
17. A method, comprising: obtaining a first data model comprising: (a) one or more characteristics of a crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a first defect type; applying the first data model to a simulation model to generate a first simulated specimen image, wherein the first simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a first set of one or more defects of the first defect type; inputting a set of one or more simulated specimen images, including the first simulated specimen image, as training data into a training algorithm to generate an artificial neural network; generating the artificial neural network, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to detect a second set of one or more defects of the first defect type in the crystalline material as shown in a set of one or more scanned specimen images; wherein the method is performed using at least one device including a hardware processor.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the one or more characteristics of the crystalline material comprise one or more of: (a) one or more characteristics of a substrate of the crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a target layer, above the substrate, of the crystalline material.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the first data model further comprises: one or more characteristics of a first microscope.
20. A system, comprising: at least one device including a hardware processor; and the system is configured to perform operations comprising: obtaining a first data model comprising: (a) one or more characteristics of a crystalline material, and (b) one or more characteristics of a first defect type; applying the first data model to a simulation model to generate a first simulated specimen image, wherein the first simulated specimen image shows the crystalline material including a first set of one or more defects of the first defect type; inputting a set of one or more simulated specimen images, including the first simulated specimen image, as training data into a training algorithm to generate an artificial neural network; generating the artificial neural network, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to detect a second set of one or more defects of the first defect type in the crystalline material as shown in a set of one or more scanned specimen images.
</claims>
</document>
