<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/08,G10L15/20,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONOS
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOLOMEI, JOHN
SOTO, KURT
SMITH, CONNOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746042
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Conditional Wake Word Eventing Based on Environment
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a playback device includes at least one microphone configured to detect sound. The playback detects sound via the one or more microphones and determines whether (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword. In response to the determining, the playback device performs a playback function corresponding to the command keyword.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A playback device comprising: one or more processors; at least one microphone configured to detect sound; at least one speaker; and data storage having instructions stored thereon that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the playback device to perform functions comprising: detecting a sound via the one or more microphones; determining that (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword; and in response to determining (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword, performing a playback function corresponding to the command keyword.
2. The playback device of claim 1, wherein the detected sound is a first detected sound, and wherein the functions further comprise: detecting a second sound via the at least one microphone; determining that the detected second sound includes a wake word; and after determining that the detected second sound includes the wake word, streaming, via a network interface of the playback device, voice input in the detected second sound to one or more remote servers of a voice assistant service.
3. The playback device of claim 1, wherein determining that the detected sound excludes background speech comprises: determining sound metadata corresponding to the detected sound; and analyzing the sound metadata to classify the detected sound according to one or more particular signatures selected from a plurality of signatures, wherein each signature of the plurality of signatures is associated with a noise source, and wherein at least one of the signatures of the plurality of signatures is a background speech signature indicative of background speech.
4. The playback device of claim 3, wherein analyzing the sound metadata comprises: classifying frames associated with the detected sound as having a particular speech signature other than the background speech signature; and comparing a number of frames, if any, classified with the background speech signature to a number of frames classified with a signature other than the background speech signature.
5. The playback device of claim 3, wherein determining that there is a voice input in the detected sound comprises detecting voice activity in the detected sound.
6. The playback device of claim 5, wherein detecting voice activity in the detected sound comprises: determining a number of first frames associated with the detected sound as containing speech; and comparing the number of first frames to a number of second frames that are (a) associated with the detected sound and (b) not indicative of speech.
7. The playback device of claim 6, wherein the first frames comprise one or more frames generated in response to near-field voice activity and one or more frames generated in response to far-field voice activity.
8. A method to be performed by a playback device comprising a network interface and at least one microphone configured to detect sound, the method comprising: detecting a sound via the one or more microphones; determining that (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword; and in response to determining (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword, performing a playback function corresponding to the command keyword.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the detected sound is a detected first sound, and wherein the method further comprises: detecting a second sound via the at least one microphone; determining that the detected second sound includes a wake word; and after determining that the detected second sound includes the wake word, streaming, via a network interface of the playback device, voice input in the detected second sound to one or more remote servers of a voice assistant service.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein determining that there is an absence of background speech in the detected sound comprises: determining sound metadata corresponding to the detected sound; and analyzing the sound metadata to classify the detected sound according to one or more particular signatures selected from a plurality of signatures, wherein each signature of the plurality of signatures is associated with a noise source, and wherein at least one of the signatures of the plurality of signatures is a background speech signature indicative of background speech.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the analyzing comprises: classifying frames associated with the detected sound as having a particular speech signature other than the background speech signature; and comparing a number of frames, if any, classified with the background speech signature to a number of frames classified with a signature other than the background speech signature.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein determining that there is a voice input in the detected sound comprises detecting voice activity in the detected sound.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein detecting voice activity in the detected sound comprises: determining a number of first frames associated with the detected sound as containing speech; and comparing the number of first frames to a number of second frames that are (a) associated with the detected sound and (b) not indicative of speech.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first frames comprise one or more frames generated in response to near-field voice activity and one or more frames generated in response to far-field voice activity.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by one or more processors to cause a playback device to perform functions, the playback device comprising a network interface and at least one microphone configured to detect sound, the functions comprising: detecting a sound via the one or more microphones; determining that (i) the detected sound includes a voice input, (ii) the detected sound excludes background speech, and (iii) the voice input includes a command keyword; and in response to the determining, performing a playback function corresponding to the command keyword.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the detected sound is a detected first sound, and wherein the functions further comprise: detecting a second sound via the at least one microphone; determining that the detected second sound includes a wake word; and after determining that the detected second sound includes the wake word, streaming, via a network interface of the playback device, voice input in the detected second sound to one or more remote servers of a voice assistant service.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining that there is an absence of background speech in the detected sound comprises: determining sound metadata corresponding to the detected sound; and analyzing the sound metadata to classify the detected sound according to one or more particular signatures selected from a plurality of signatures, wherein each signature of the plurality of signatures is associated with a noise source, and wherein at least one of the signatures of the plurality of signatures is a background speech signature indicative of background speech.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the analyzing comprises: classifying frames associated with the detected sound as having a particular speech signature other than the background speech signature; and comparing a number of frames, if any, classified with the background speech signature to a number of frames classified with a signature other than the background speech signature.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining that there is a voice input in the detected sound comprises detecting voice activity in the detected sound.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein detecting voice activity in the detected sound comprises: determining a number of first frames associated with the detected sound as containing speech; and comparing the number of first frames to a number of second frames that are (a) associated with the detected sound and (b) not indicative of speech.
</claims>
</document>
