<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHCHUR, OLEKSANDR
IGNATOVA, TETIANA
DERIUGA, IVAN
POLOTSKYI, SERHII
ZUBARIEVA, OLHA
OSADCHIY, VADYM
RADYVONENKO, OLGA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DISPLAYING HANDWRITING-BASED ENTRY
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for detecting, identifying, and displaying handwriting-based entry is provided. The system and method include features for detecting entry of at least one first letter based on handwriting, identifying a style of the at least one first letter, and displaying at least one second letter associated with the at least one first letter based on, and in the form of, the identified style of the at least one first letter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for displaying handwriting-based entry, the method comprising: detecting entry of at least one first letter based on handwriting; identifying a style of the at least one first letter; and displaying at least one second letter associated with the at least one first letter based on the identified style of the at least one first letter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting of the entry of the at least one first letter comprises one of: detecting entry of the at least one first letter on a touchscreen display; or detecting entry of the at least one first letter represented according to a user's motion based on motion recognition of the user's motion.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the style of the at least one first letter comprises: transmitting information about the detected entry of the at least one first letter to a server; and receiving information about the style of the at least one first letter from the server, and wherein the style of the at least one first letter is identified by the server based on the information about the entry of the at least one first letter using deep learning.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the style of the at least one first letter comprises identifying a style for representing at least one letter not included in the at least one first letter.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the at least one second letter comprises: displaying the at least one second letter to complete a word or a sentence including the at least one first letter; or displaying the at least one second letter to correct an error related to the at least one first letter, wherein the word or the sentence to be completed is user-adaptively selected.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the displaying of the at least one second letter to correct the error comprises: user-adaptively deducing an intended word or sentence from the at least one first letter; identifying whether the at least one first letter includes the error based on the intended word or sentence deduced; and when the at least one first letter includes the error, displaying the at least one second letter to correct the error.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting entry of at least one third letter based on handwriting; identifying a style of the at least one third letter; and displaying at least one fourth letter associated with the at least one third letter based on the identified style of the at least one third letter, wherein the at least one second letter and the at least one fourth letter are simultaneously displayed.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one second letter is displayed in a different form from the at least one first letter, and wherein in response to the user's entry to confirm entry of the at least one second letter, a form of the at least one second letter is changed to be the same as a form of the at least one first letter.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one second letter comprises at least one third letter and at least one fourth letter to, together with the at least one first letter, complete words or sentences different from each other, and wherein the method further comprises displaying a word or a sentence completed based on at least one selected letter among the at least one third letter and the at least one fourth letter in response to detecting entry to select any one of the at least one third letter and the at least one fourth letter.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the style of the at least one first letter comprises identifying information about a style of at least one of a first user and a second user, wherein the displaying of the at least one second letter comprises: displaying the at least one second letter in a style of a first user if it is identified that the style of the at least one first letter is associated with the first user; and displaying the at least one second letter in a style of a second user if it is identified that the style of the at least one first letter is associated with the second user.
11. An electronic device configured to display handwriting-based entry, the electronic device comprising: a memory; a communication interface; and at least one processor connected with the memory and the communication interface, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: detect entry of at least one first letter based on handwriting, identify a style of the at least one first letter, and display at least one second letter associated with the at least one first letter based on the identified style of the at least one first letter.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: detect entry of the at least one first letter by detecting entry of the at least one first letter on a touchscreen display, or detect entry of the at least one first letter represented according to a user's motion based on motion recognition of the user's motion.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein to identify the style of the at least one first letter, the at least one processor is further configured to: transmit information about the detected entry of the at least one first letter to a server, and receive information about the style of the at least one first letter from the server, and wherein the style of the at least one first letter is identified by the server based on the information about the entry of the at least one first letter using deep learning.
14. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the identifying of the style of the at least one first letter comprises identifying a style for representing at least one letter not included in the at least one first letter.
15. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: display the at least one second letter by displaying the at least one second letter to complete a word or a sentence including the at least one first letter, or display the at least one second letter to correct an error related to the at least one first letter, wherein the word or the sentence to be completed is user-adaptively selected.
16. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein to display the at least one second letter to correct the error, the at least one processor is further configured to: user-adaptively deduce an intended word or sentence from the at least one first letter, identify whether the at least one first letter includes the error based on the intended word or sentence deduced, and when the at least one first letter includes the error, display the at least one second letter to correct the error.
17. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: detect entry of at least one third letter based on handwriting, identify a style of the at least one third letter, and display at least one fourth letter associated with the at least one third letter based on the identified style of the at least one third letter, and wherein the at least one second letter and the at least one fourth letter are simultaneously displayed.
18. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one second letter is displayed in a different form from the at least one first letter, and wherein in response to the user's entry to confirm entry of the at least one second letter, a form of the at least one second letter is changed to be the same as a form of the at least one first letter.
19. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one second letter comprises at least one third letter and at least one fourth letter to, together with the at least one first letter, complete words or sentences different from each other, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to display a word or a sentence completed based on at least one selected letter among the at least one third letter and the at least one fourth letter in response to detecting entry to select any one of the at least one third letter and the at least one fourth letter.
20. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the identifying of the style of the at least one first letter comprises receiving information about a style of at least one of a first user and a second user wherein the displaying of the at least one second letter comprises: displaying the at least one second letter in a style of a first user if it is identified that the style of the at least one first letter is associated with the first user, and displaying the at least one second letter in a style of a second user if it is identified that the style of the at least one first letter is associated with the second user.
</claims>
</document>
