<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06,G06Q50/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICKOVER CLIFFORD A.
GORDON, MICHAEL, S.
VUKOVIC, MAJA
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63104699
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATING MITIGATION OF DANGEROUS ACTIVITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques facilitating mitigation of dangerous activities are provided. In one example, a computer-implemented method can include detecting, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a trigger event based on a determination that a security risk level satisfies a defined condition associated with the security risk level. The security risk level can be associated with an item of interest and a monitored behavior related to the item of interest. The computer-implemented method can also include implementing, by the system, an action that mitigates an impact of the security risk level. The action can be implemented as the trigger event is detected and the action can be determined based on the item of interest and the monitored behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: detecting, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a security risk associated with ingredients from a harmful recipe database comprising recipes that can be employed to cause physical harm to at least one entity based on identifying behavior associated with the ingredients comprising a sequential order in which a subset of the ingredients are being purchased; and implementing, by the system, an action that reduces the security risk, an action reduces a probability that the subset of ingredients will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause physical harm to the at least one entity.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the action comprises a real-time modification to a website on which the specific behavior is occurring that reduces the probability that the item of interest will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause the physical harm to the at least one entity.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the action comprises modifying an attribute related to a purchase of an ingredient of the subset of ingredients.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the attribute is selected from a group consisting of a price, a timing, a location, a delivery characteristic, and an identity verification.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the action comprises outputting an alert to an entity distinct from the system.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the behavior further comprises a first purchase of a first ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a first entity and a second purchase of a second ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a second entity, and wherein the first event and the second event are determined to be related based on a determined relationship between the first entity and the second entity.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the first purchase and the second purchase are online purchases and the first entity and the second entity are different people.
8. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an observation component that detects a security risk associated with ingredients from a harmful recipe database comprising recipes that can be employed to cause physical harm to at least one entity based on identifying behavior associated with the ingredients comprising a sequential order in which a subset of the ingredients are being purchased; and an implementation component that performs an action that reduces the security risk, an action reduces a probability that the subset of ingredients will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause physical harm to the at least one entity.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the action comprises a real-time modification to a website on which the specific behavior is occurring that reduces the probability that the item of interest will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause the physical harm to the at least one entity.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the action comprises modifying an attribute related to a purchase of an ingredient of the subset of ingredients.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the attribute is selected from a group consisting of a price, a timing, a location, a delivery characteristic, and an identity verification.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the action further comprises outputting an alert to an entity distinct from the system.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the behavior further comprises a first purchase of a first ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a first entity and a second purchase of a second ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a second entity, and wherein the first event and the second event are determined to be related based on a determined relationship between the first entity and the second entity.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the first purchase and the second purchase are online purchases and the first entity and the second entity are different people.
15. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an observation component that detects a security risk associated with ingredients from a harmful recipe database comprising recipes that can be employed to cause physical harm to at least one entity based on identifying behavior associated with the ingredients comprising a sequential order in which a subset of the ingredients are being purchased; and an implementation component that performs an action that reduces the security risk, an action reduces a probability that the subset of ingredients will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause physical harm to the at least one entity.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the action comprises a real-time modification to a website on which the specific behavior is occurring that reduces the probability that the item of interest will be employed in a recipe of the recipes to cause the physical harm to the at least one entity.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the action comprises modifying an attribute related to a purchase of an ingredient of the subset of ingredients.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the attribute is selected from a group consisting of a price, a timing, a location, a delivery characteristic, and an identity verification.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the action further comprises outputting an alert to an entity distinct from the system.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the behavior further comprises a first purchase of a first ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a first entity and a second purchase of a second ingredient of the subset of ingredients performed in connection with a second entity, and wherein the first event and the second event are determined to be related based on a determined relationship between the first entity and the second entity.
</claims>
</document>
