<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R21/0136,B60R21/015,B60R21/231,B60R21/2334
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOST, MARKUS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165735
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE SIDE AIRBAG
</title>

<abstract>
An airbag for a vehicle, such as a side airbag, may be mounted to or proximate to a seat assembly on which a passenger may sit. The side airbag may include a chamber and an inflator configured to cause the chamber to expand toward the passenger to slow an acceleration of the passenger upon impact of the vehicle with another object or surface. Upon deployment of the chamber, the side airbag may cause a portion of the seat assembly (a seat tub, seat pan, and/or cushion coupled thereto) to deform toward the passenger seated thereon while remaining occluded from the passenger by the assembly. In some examples, the chamber may be stored in an unfolded position to allow for a more rapid deployment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle comprising: a body having a passenger compartment; a seat assembly disposed in the passenger compartment; a side airbag system at least partially obscured from the passenger compartment by a component of the seat assembly, the side airbag system comprising: a sensor configured to detect one or more of an impact with an object or an imminent impact with an object; a chamber; and an inflator coupled to the chamber and in communication with the impact sensor; one or more processors; and one or more memories storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving a signal from the sensor indicative of a side impact; and causing, based at least in part on the signal, the chamber to expand, wherein, when fully expanded, the chamber of the side airbag system is fully obscured from the passenger compartment by the seat assembly.
2. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the chamber of the side airbag system is coupled to a surface of the seat assembly in an unfolded condition.
3. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the chamber is coupled to at least one of a receiver configured to couple to at least a portion of a seat cushion or an external seat frame.
4. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the seat assembly comprises: a seat pan; a cushion; and a receiver configured to couple to at least one of the seat pan or the cushion; wherein responsive to the chamber filling with gas, the chamber deforms at least one of the seat pan, the cushion, or the receiver.
5. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the sensor is a perception sensor, the one or more memories further store computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving sensor data from the perception sensor; determining that a side impact with the object is within a threshold time period based at least in part on the sensor data; and sending a deployment signal to the inflator causing the inflator to deploy the chamber.
6. The vehicle of claim 1, wherein the side airbag system further comprises a position sensor communicatively coupled to the inflator, an output of the position sensor indicative of whether a passenger is seated in the seat assembly, wherein the inflator is configured to receive position sensor data from the position sensor and to determine whether to fill the chamber with gas.
7. A side airbag comprising: a chamber configured to be coupled to a side portion of a seat assembly of a vehicle; and an inflator coupled to the chamber, wherein the inflator is configured to receive a signal indicating a side impact and, based at least in part on the signal, cause the chamber to expand toward the centerline of the seat assembly and deform at least a portion of the seat assembly toward the centerline of the seat assembly, wherein, when fully expanded, the chamber is occluded from a passenger compartment of the vehicle by at least a portion of the seat assembly.
8. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the chamber is coupled to the side portion of the seat assembly in an unfolded condition.
9. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the seat assembly comprises: a seat pan; a cushion; and a receiver configured to couple to at least one of the seat pan or the cushion; wherein responsive to the chamber expanding, the chamber deforms at least one of the seat pan, the cushion, or the receiver.
10. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the inflator is configured to receive an arming signal from a weight sensor based on a determination by the weight sensor that a weight of an article in the seat assembly proximate the side airbag is above a threshold weight, and wherein the arming signal causes the inflator to arm for deployment.
11. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the inflator is configured to receive an arming signal from an image sensor configured to capture an image of the seat assembly and determine whether a passenger is located in the seat assembly proximate the side airbag, and wherein the arming signal causes the inflator to arm for deployment.
12. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the signal indicating the side impact comprises an indication of imminent impact with the object, and wherein the indication of imminent impact is determined by a computing device communicatively coupled to the inflator based at least in part on data received by the computing device from a perception sensor.
13. The side airbag of claim 7, wherein the signal indicating the side impact comprises an electrical signal from an impact sensor communicatively coupled to the inflator, the impact sensor being configured to detect an impact with the object.
14. A side airbag comprising: a chamber coupled to a portion of a seat frame of a vehicle to which a seat assembly is coupled and configured to expand toward a passenger compartment of the vehicle, wherein the chamber is coupled to the portion of the seat frame in an unfolded position; and an inflator coupled to the chamber, wherein the inflator is configured to receive a signal indicating a side impact with an object and, based at least in part on the signal, cause the chamber to expand toward the passenger compartment and deform at least a portion of the seat assembly toward the centerline of the seat assembly.
15. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the chamber is further configured to expand through an opening in the seat pan.
16. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the seat assembly at least partially occludes the chamber from the passenger compartment.
17. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the seat assembly comprises: a seat pan; a cushion; and a receiver configured to at least one of the seat pan or the cushion, wherein responsive to the chamber expanding toward the passenger compartment, the chamber deforms at least one of the seat pan, the cushion, or the receiver.
18. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the chamber comprises at least one of: a single compartment configured to hold gas; or two or more compartments configured to hold gas.
19. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the signal indicating the side impact comprises an indication of imminent impact with the object, and wherein the indication of imminent impact is determined by a computing device communicatively coupled to the inflator based at least in part on sensor data received by a perception sensor.
20. The side airbag of claim 14, wherein the signal indicating the side impact comprises an electrical signal from an impact sensor communicatively coupled to the inflator, the impact sensor being configured to detect an impact with the object.
</claims>
</document>
