<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Rizvi, Sajjad
</assignee>

<inventors>
Rizvi, Sajjad
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74191331
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VISUALIZING DATA CORRESPONDING TO A PHYSICAL ITEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method may visualize data related to a payment device and various physical objects. A payment device such as a credit card including an RFID may be placed near a frontend display system that then calls a backend visualization system to show a visual representation of deterministic and probabilistic data related to the payment device and the physical object(s). Additional physical objects may be placed near the display system and identified. The visualization may then be refined based on that additional physical object. Further physical objects may be read by the frontend system to present more detailed visualizations that relate the payment device and the additional physical objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a first signal from a first contactless component corresponding to a payment device, the first signal including identification data for the payment device; displaying payment network account data for transactions using the payment device, at least one of the transactions including identification data for the payment device; receiving a second signal from a second contactless component corresponding to a physical object, the second signal including identification data for the physical object; identifying, based on identification data for the payment device and the identification data for the physical object, one or more parameters corresponding to the displayed payment network account data, the one or more parameters corresponding to both the payment device and the physical object; and refining the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data, the portion of the displayed payment network account data corresponding to the one or more parameters; wherein the method is performed using one or more processors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first signal is received at a first hotspot of a table and the second signal is received at a second hotspot of the table.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first contactless component and the second contactless component include an RFID tag.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein displaying payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes analyzing deterministic and probabilistic data corresponding to the received identification data for the payment device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein refining the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes analyzing deterministic and probabilistic data corresponding to both the received identification data for the payment device and the received identification data for the physical object.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein displaying payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes displaying one or more first data layer parameters.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein refining the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes displaying one or more first data layer parameters and one or more second data layer parameters.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein refining the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes receiving a selection of one or more first data layer parameters and one or more second data layer parameters.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes displaying the payment network account data on a media wall that partially encompasses a table, the table configured to receive the identification data for the payment device and the identification data for the physical object.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the media wall encompasses the table by at least 300 degrees.
11. A system comprising: a processor and a memory in communication with the processor, the memory storing instructions, that when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a first signal from a first contactless component corresponding to a payment device, the first signal including identification data for the payment device; display payment network account data for transactions using the payment device, at least one of the transactions including identification data for the payment device; receive a second signal from a second contactless component corresponding to a physical object, the second signal including identification data for the physical object; identify, based on the identification data for the payment device and the identification data for the physical object, one or more parameters corresponding to the displayed payment network account data, the one or more parameters corresponding to both the payment device and the physical object; and refine the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data, the portion of the displayed payment network account data corresponding to the one or more parameters.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first signal is received at a first hotspot of a table and the second signal is received at a second hotspot of the table.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the first contactless component and the second contactless component include an RFID tag.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the instruction to display payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes an instruction to analyze deterministic and probabilistic data corresponding to the received identification data for the payment device.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instruction to refine the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes an instruction to analyze deterministic and probabilistic data corresponding to both the received identification data for the payment device and the received identification data for the physical object.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the instruction to display payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes an instruction to display one or more first data layer parameters.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the instruction to refine the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes an instruction to display one or more first data layer parameters and one or more second data layer parameters.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instruction to refine the displayed payment network account data to display one or more visualizations of at least a portion of the displayed payment network account data includes an instruction to receive a selection of one or more first data layer parameters and one or more second data layer parameters.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the instruction to display the payment network account data for transactions using the payment device includes an instruction to display the payment network account data on a media wall that partially encompasses a table, the table configured to receive the identification data for the payment device and the identification data for the physical object.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the media wall encompasses the table by at least 300 degrees.
</claims>
</document>
