<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOMORI, YASUHIRO
SATO, SHUNSUKE
TAKEUCHI, KOICHI
Makita, Hiroki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832511
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, METHOD FOR DETECTING EVENT FROM IMAGE, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing apparatus includes a first detection unit configured to detect an event from a captured image through first detection processing, a resource management unit configured to allocate a resource allocated to predetermined processing to second detection processing different from the first detection processing in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing, and a second detection unit configured to detect an event from the captured image through the second detection processing using the resource allocated by the resource management unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising: a first detection unit configured to detect an event from a captured image through first detection processing; a resource management unit configured to allocate a resource allocated to predetermined processing to second detection processing different from the first detection processing in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing; and a second detection unit configured to detect an event from the captured image through the second detection processing using the resource allocated by the resource management unit.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the resource management unit allocates the resource allocated to the first detection processing to the second detection processing.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the resource management unit manages a calculation apparatus as the resource.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the resource management unit manages a storage apparatus as the resource.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an output unit configured to output detection information indicating that the event is detected in a case where the event is detected by the second detection unit.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a number of times the event detection is performed in the second detection processing is greater than a number of times the event detection is performed in the first detection processing.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the second detection processing is detection processing to be performed on an image with a lower compression rate than a compression rate in the first detection processing.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first detection unit performs the first detection processing on an image captured by each of a plurality of image capturing apparatuses in order.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein, in a case where the event is detected through the second detection processing, the first detection unit stops the first detection processing on an image for a predetermined period of time, the image captured by the image capturing apparatus having captured the captured image from which the event is detected.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first detection unit detects a plurality of events, wherein the information processing apparatus further comprises a detection processing determination unit configured to determine the second detection processing based on a type of the event detected through the first detection processing, and wherein the second detection unit performs the second detection processing determined by the detection processing determination unit.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first detection unit and the second detection unit detect an abnormal action of a person as the event.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first detection unit and the second detection unit detect presence of a specific object as the event.
13. An information processing system comprising: an information processing apparatus; and an image capturing apparatus connected to the information processing apparatus via a network and configured to capture the captured image, wherein the information processing apparatus comprises: a first detection unit configured to detect an event from a captured image through first detection processing; a resource management unit configured to allocate a resource allocated to predetermined processing to second detection processing different from the first detection processing in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing; and a second detection unit configured to detect an event from the captured image through the second detection processing using the resource allocated by the resource management unit.
14. The information processing system according to claim 13, wherein the resource management unit manages the network as the resource.
15. The information processing system according to claim 13, further comprising a plurality of image capturing apparatuses connected to the information processing apparatus via the network.
16. The information processing system according to claim 15, wherein the resource management unit manages the plurality of image capturing apparatuses as the resource.
17. The information processing system according to claim 13, wherein the information processing apparatus includes a transmission unit configured to transmit an instruction to change a compression rate to the image capturing apparatus in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing, wherein the image capturing apparatus includes a transmission unit configured to transmit the captured image compressed using the changed compression rate based on the instruction to the information processing apparatus, and wherein the second detection unit detects the event from a processing target that is the captured image compressed using the changed compression rate.
18. The information processing system according to claim 13, wherein the information processing apparatus includes a transmission unit configured to transmit an instruction to change a frame rate to the image capturing apparatus in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing, wherein the image capturing apparatus includes a transmission unit configured to transmit the captured image to the information processing apparatus at the changed frame rate based on the instruction, and wherein a second detection unit detects the event from a processing target that is the captured image received at the changed frame rate.
19. An information processing method executed by an information processing system, the method comprising: detecting an event from a captured image through first detection processing; allocating a resource allocated to predetermined processing to second detection processing different from the first detection processing in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing; and detecting an event from the captured image through the second detection processing using the allocated resource.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium that stores a program for causing a computer to function as: a first detection unit configured to detect an event from a captured image through first detection processing; a resource management unit configured to allocate a resource allocated to predetermined processing to second detection processing different from the first detection processing in a case where the event is detected through the first detection processing; and a second detection unit configured to detect an event from the captured image through the second detection processing using the resource allocated by the resource management unit.
</claims>
</document>
