<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/20,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTION
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
COOPER, STEVE
KHANNA, ABHISHEK
MCGOVERN, AONGHUS
MURPHY, REBEKAH
ZUO, XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70855992
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TUNABLE BIAS REDUCTION PIPELINE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods may reduce bias in an artificial intelligence model. The system may receive word embedding model generated based on a corpus of words. The system may determine a bias definition vector in an embedding space of the word embedding model. The system may receive bias classification criteria. The bias classification criteria may include logic to group word vectors in the word embedding model based on a distance measurement from the bias definition vector. The system may identify, in the word embedding model, a first group of vectors and a second group of vectors based on the bias classification criteria and the bias definition vector. The system may generate a debiased artificial intelligence model. The debiased artificial intelligence model may include associations between words and metrics. The system may weight the metrics for the words associated with the first and second group of vectors with a non-zero penalization factor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for reducing bias in an artificial intelligence model, the system comprising: a processor and a computer readable medium, the computer readable medium comprising instructions executable by the processor to: receive a word embedding model generated based on a corpus of words, the word embedding model comprising word vectors representative of the corpus of words; determine a bias definition vector based on the word embedding model, the bias definition vector being defined along a bias axis representative of a bias type in the word embedding model; receive a bias classification criteria, the bias classification criteria comprising logic to group the word vectors based on a distance measurement from the bias definition vector; identify, in the word embedding model, a first group of word vectors and a second group of word vectors based on the bias classification criteria and the bias definition vector, the first group of word vectors being representative of a first bias category for the bias type and the second group of word vectors being representative of a second bias category for the bias type; adjust a first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust a second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors. generate a word embedding model where the word vectors from the first group and the word vectors from the second group are weighted; adjust, based on the adjusted first bias threshold and the adjusted second bias threshold, the respective word vectors included in the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; determine that a debias criteria is satisfied based on the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and generate a debiased artificial intelligence model, the debiased artificial intelligence model comprising metrics representative of words, wherein metrics for words associated with the first group of word vectors and metrics for words associated with the second group of word vectors are weighted based on a non-zero penalization factor.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to determine that the debias criteria is satisfied further comprise instructions executable by the processor to: receive a target word ratio, the target word ratio based on words in the first bias category and words in the second bias category; determine a runtime word ratio of vectors in the first group of word vectors to word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and compare the target word ratio with the run-time word ratio based on the debias criteria to determine the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: generate a user interface comprising a control configured to receive the target word ratio and a control to display the run-time word ratio.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: receive text indicative of skill qualifications and text indicative of role descriptions; map, based on the debiased artificial intelligence model, at least one of the skill qualifications to the at least one of the role descriptions; and display a report indicative of the mapping between the at least one of the skill qualifications and the at least one of the role descriptions.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: receive text indicative of skill qualifications and text indicative of role descriptions; extract the corpus of words from the text indicative of skill qualifications and text indicative of role descriptions; and generate the word embedding model based on the corpus of words.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the text indicative of skill qualifications comprise text from a resume and the text indicative of role descriptions comprise text from a job description.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to determine the bias definition vector further comprise instructions executable by the processor to: identify, in the word embedding model, a first word vector representative of a first word, the first word being descriptive of the first bias category; identify, in the word embedding model, a second word vector representative of a second word, the second word being descriptive of the second bias category; and calculate the bias definition vector based on vector subtraction between the first word vector and the second word vector.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first bias category is indicative of a male gender bias and the second bias category is indicative of a female gender bias.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the debiased artificial intelligence model comprises a new word embedding model, a term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) model, or any combination thereof.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: determine that the bias criteria is not satisfied; increment the target ratio by a threshold value; in response to incrementing the ratio, adjust the first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust the second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; generate a new run-time word ratio based on the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; and determine the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: decrease the penalization factor before the word embedding model is generated.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: generate a user interface comprising a control configured to receive the non-zero penalization factor defined by a user.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the bias classification criteria is configured to group the word vectors by comparing a semantic similarity score of each word vector relative to the bias definition vector.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable medium further comprises instructions executable by the processor to: receive a user-defined threshold parameter, and compare a semantic similarity score of each word vector relative to the user-defined threshold parameter.
15. A method comprising: receiving a word embedding model generated based on a corpus of words, the word embedding model comprising word vectors representative of the corpus of words; determining a bias definition vector, the bias definition vector being defined along a bias axis representative of a bias type in the word embedding model; receiving a bias classification criteria, the bias classification criteria comprising logic to group the word vectors into a first group of word vectors and a second group of word vectors based on a distance measurement from the bias definition vector, the first group of word vectors being representative of a first bias category for the bias type and the second group of word vectors being representative of a second bias category for the bias type; identifying, in the word embedding model, the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors based on the bias classification criteria and the bias definition vector; receiving a target word ratio based on a quantity of words in the first bias category and a quantity of words in the second bias category; adjusting a first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust a second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors. generating a word embedding model where the word vectors from the first group and the word vectors from the second group are weighted; adjusting, based on the adjusted first bias threshold and the adjusted second bias threshold, the respective word vectors included in the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; determining that a debias criteria is satisfied based on the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and generating, in response to satisfaction of the debias criteria, a debiased artificial intelligence model, the debiased artificial intelligence model comprising metrics representative of words, wherein the metrics for words associated with the first group of word vectors and metrics for words associated with the second group of word vectors are weighted based on the calibrated non-zero penalization factor.
16. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving a target word ratio, the target word ratio based on words in the first bias category and words in the second bias category; determining a runtime word ratio of vectors in the first group of word vectors to word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and comparing the target word ratio with the run-time word ratio based on the debias criteria to determine the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
17. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining that the bias criteria is not satisfied; incrementing the target ratio by a threshold value; in response to incrementing the ratio, adjusting the first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust the second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; generating a new run-time word ratio based on the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; and determining the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
18. A system comprising: a processor, the processor configured to: receive a word embedding model generated based on a corpus of words, the word embedding model comprising word vectors representative of the corpus of words; determine a bias definition vector based on the word embedding model, the bias definition vector being defined along a bias axis representative of a bias type in the word embedding model; receive a bias classification criteria, the bias classification criteria comprising logic to group the word vectors based on a distance measurement from the bias definition vector; identify, in the word embedding model, a first group of word vectors and a second group of word vectors based on the bias classification criteria and the bias definition vector, the first group of word vectors being representative of a first bias category for the bias type and the second group of word vectors being representative of a second bias category for the bias type; adjust a first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust a second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors. generate a word embedding model where the word vectors from the first group and the word vectors from the second group are weighted; adjust, based on the adjusted first bias threshold and the adjusted second bias threshold, the respective word vectors included in the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; determine that a debias criteria is satisfied based on the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and the adjusted quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and generate a debiased artificial intelligence model, the debiased artificial intelligence model comprising metrics representative of words, wherein the metrics for words associated with the first group of word vectors and metrics for words associated with the second group of word vectors are weighted based on a non-zero penalization factor.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a target word ratio, the target word ratio based on words in the first bias category and words in the second bias category; determine a runtime word ratio of vectors in the first group of word vectors to word vectors in the second group of word vectors; and compare the target word ratio with the run-time word ratio based on the debias criteria to determine the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that the bias criteria is not satisfied; increment the target ratio by a threshold value; in response to incrementing the ratio, adjust the first bias threshold to decrease the quantity of word vectors in the first group of word vectors and adjust the second bias threshold to increase the quantity of word vectors in the second group of word vectors; generate a new run-time word ratio based on the first group of word vectors and the second group of word vectors; and determine the new run-time word ratio and the target word ratio satisfy the debias criteria.
</claims>
</document>
