<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/445,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
OROZCO CERVANTES, HUMBERTO
LLAMAS VIRGEN, PAUL
GARCIA DELGADO, CAROLINA
MENESES BARRAGAN, JORGE ADRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550638
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PREPARING COMPUTING DEVICES IN ANTICIPATION OF PREDICTED USER ARRIVAL
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment of the invention may include a method, computer program product and system for computing device management. An embodiment may include preparing, by an estimated arrival time of a user at a location, at least one computing device needed by the user to perform a computing task at the location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for computing device management, the method comprising: preparing, by an estimated arrival time of a user at a location, at least one computing device needed by the user to perform a computing task at the location.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving geographic location data of the user; and gathering travel related data in proximity to the received geographic location data, wherein the travel related data comprises at least one element from the group consisting of: a speed of the user, a direction of travel of the user, and road conditions.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the location and the at least one computing device needed by the user is determined via a machine-learning algorithm based on inputs comprising at least one element from the group consisting of: the geographic location data of the user, previous travel patterns of the user, previous travel times of the user, calendar information of the user, an agenda of the user, scheduled routines of the user, one or more scheduled tasks of the user, profile information of the user, emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of one or more computing devices.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the one or more computing devices and the at least one computing device are part of a predefined set of computing devices accessible by the user and the machine-learning algorithm.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the estimated arrival time is determined by the machine-learning algorithm based on the gathered travel related data in proximity to the received geographic location data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: determining, via the machine-learning algorithm, one or more software applications to execute on the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: the calendar information of the user, the agenda of the user, the scheduled routines of the user, the one or more scheduled tasks of the user, the profile information of the user, the emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of the at least one computing device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: determining an optimal time for preparing the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: boot-up time of the at least one computing device, power level of the at least one computing device, processing capabilities of the at least one computing device, initialization times for network connections of the at least one computing device, application loads of the one or more software applications, initialization times of the one or more software applications, and processing consumption of the one or more software applications, wherein conclusion of the optimal time coincides with the estimated arrival time of the user at the location, and wherein preparing the at least one computing device comprises at least one action from the group consisting of: powering on the at least one computing device, opening the one or more software applications via the at least one computing device, establishing network connections via the at least one computing device, and downloading data via the at least one computing device.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: preparing, by the estimated arrival time of the user at the location, an alternate computing device for use by the user to perform the computing task at the location in response to determining that a power level of the at least one computing device is insufficient to perform the computing task at the location.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: operating in a training mode, wherein operating in a training mode comprises: tracking travel patterns, calendar information, and scheduled routines of the user; logging usage history, by the user, of the one or more computing devices; suggesting, to the user, device preparation related actions for the one or more computing devices based on the travel patterns, the calendar information, the scheduled routines of the user, and the usage history of the one or more computing devices; receiving feedback from the user concerning the suggested device preparation related actions for the one or more computing devices; and evaluating the feedback to determine a confidence level for each of the suggested device preparation related actions.
10. A computer program product for computing device management, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to prepare, by an estimated arrival time of a user at a location, at least one computing device needed by the user to perform a computing task at the location.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising: program instructions to receive geographic location data of the user; and program instructions to gather travel related data in proximity to the received geographic location data, wherein the travel related data comprises at least one from the group consisting of: a speed of the user, a direction of travel of the user, and road conditions.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the location and the at least one computing device needed by the user is determined via a machine-learning algorithm based on inputs comprising at least one from the group consisting of: the geographic location data of the user, previous travel patterns of the user, previous travel times of the user, calendar information of the user, an agenda of the user, scheduled routines of the user, one or more scheduled tasks of the user, profile information of the user, emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of one or more computing devices.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising: program instructions to determine, via the machine-learning algorithm, one or more software applications to execute on the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: the calendar information of the user, the agenda of the user, the scheduled routines of the user, the one or more scheduled tasks of the user, the profile information of the user, the emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of the at least one computing device.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising: program instructions to determine an optimal time for preparing the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: boot-up time of the at least one computing device, power level of the at least one computing device, processing capabilities of the at least one computing device, initialization times for network connections of the at least one computing device, application loads of the one or more software applications, initialization times of the one or more software applications, and processing consumption of the one or more software applications, wherein conclusion of the optimal time coincides with the estimated arrival time of the user at the location, and wherein preparing the at least one computing device comprises at least one action from the group consisting of: powering on the at least one computing device, opening the one or more software applications via the at least one computing device, establishing network connections via the at least one computing device, and downloading data via the at least one computing device.
15. A computer system for computing device management, the computer system comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to prepare, by an estimated arrival time of a user at a location, at least one computing device needed by the user to perform a computing task at the location.
16. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to receive geographic location data of the user; and program instructions to gather travel related data in proximity to the received geographic location data, wherein the travel related data comprises at least one from the group consisting of: a speed of the user, a direction of travel of the user, and road conditions.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the location and the at least one computing device needed by the user is determined via a machine-learning algorithm based on inputs comprising at least one from the group consisting of: the geographic location data of the user, previous travel patterns of the user, previous travel times of the user, calendar information of the user, an agenda of the user, scheduled routines of the user, one or more scheduled tasks of the user, profile information of the user, emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of one or more computing devices.
18. The computer system of claim 17, further comprising: program instructions to determine, via the machine-learning algorithm, one or more software applications to execute on the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: the calendar information of the user, the agenda of the user, the scheduled routines of the user, the one or more scheduled tasks of the user, the profile information of the user, the emails of the user, the location, and usage history, by the user, of the at least one computing device.
19. The computer system of claim 18, further comprising: program instructions to determine an optimal time for preparing the at least one computing device based on at least one from the group consisting of: boot-up time of the at least one computing device, power level of the at least one computing device, processing capabilities of the at least one computing device, initialization times for network connections of the at least one computing device, application loads of the one or more software applications, initialization times of the one or more software applications, and processing consumption of the one or more software applications, wherein conclusion of the optimal time coincides with the estimated arrival time of the user at the location, and wherein preparing the at least one computing device comprises at least one action from the group consisting of: powering on the at least one computing device, opening the one or more software applications via the at least one computing device, establishing network connections via the at least one computing device, and downloading data via the at least one computing device.
20. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: preparing, by the estimated arrival time of the user at the location, an alternate computing device for use by the user to perform the computing task at the location in response to determining that a power level of the at least one computing device is insufficient to perform the computing task at the location.
</claims>
</document>
