<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/14,G06F21/56,G06F8/65,G06F8/71
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACRONIS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELOUSSOV, SERGUEI
ENAKIEV, ANTON
KULAGA, ANDREY
PROTASOV, STANISLAV
SERGEEV, ALEXEY
STROGOV, VLADIMIR
Ishanov, Oleg
Kornachev, Igor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551541
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF PREVENTING MALWARE REOCCURRENCE WHEN RESTORING A COMPUTING DEVICE USING A BACKUP IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems and method for preventing malware reoccurrence when restoring a computing device using a backup image. In one exemplary aspect, a method may identify, from a plurality of backup images for a computing device, a backup image that was created most recently before the computing device was compromised. The method may mount the backup image as a disk and scanning the disk for malicious software. The method may disable all ports and services on the computing device to prevent unauthorized network connections and service launches. The method may restore data to the computing device from the mounted disk. The method may update software on the computing device and applying latest patches, and reopen the ports and restart the services on the computing device subsequent to updating the software and applying the latest patches.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of preventing malware reoccurrence when restoring a computing device using a backup image, comprising: identifying, from a plurality of backup images for a computing device, a backup image that was created most recently before the computing device was compromised; mounting the backup image as a disk and scanning the disk for malicious software; disabling all ports and services on the computing device to prevent unauthorized network connections and service launches; restoring data to the computing device from the mounted disk; updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches; and reopening the ports and restarting the services on the computing device subsequent to updating the software and applying the latest patches.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches further comprises: identifying a security issue that caused the computing device to be compromised; determining whether a patch that resolves the security issue exists; and in response to determining that the patch exists, installing the patch.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches further comprises: identifying an application that became infected and caused the computing device to be compromised, wherein a version of the application installed on the computing device is outdated and a new version of the application is available; determining whether the new version comprises known security issues that are unresolved; and in response to determining that the new version does not comprise known security issues that are unresolved, updating the application from the outdated version to the new version.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: in response to determining that the new version comprises the known security issues that are unresolved, delaying updating the application to the new version until the known security issues are resolved.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising restarting the computing device subsequent to restoring the data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein disabling the ports comprises either blocking or closing a portion of the ports from establishing the unauthorized network connections.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein disabling the services comprises suspending or stopping a portion of the services and system processes.
8. A system of preventing malware reoccurrence when restoring a computing device using a backup image, comprising: a hardware processor configured to: identify, from a plurality of backup images for a computing device, a backup image that was created most recently before the computing device was compromised; mount the backup image as a disk and scanning the disk for malicious software; disable all ports and services on the computing device to prevent unauthorized network connections and service launches; restore data to the computing device from the mounted disk; update software on the computing device and applying latest patches; and reopen the ports and restarting the services on the computing device subsequent to updating the software and applying the latest patches.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is configured to update software on the computing device and applying latest patches by: identifying a security issue that caused the computing device to be compromised; determining whether a patch that resolves the security issue exists; and in response to determining that the patch exists, installing the patch.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is configured to updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches by: identifying an application that became infected and caused the computing device to be compromised, wherein a version of the application installed on the computing device is outdated and a new version of the application is available; determining whether the new version comprises known security issues that are unresolved; and in response to determining that the new version does not comprise known security issues that are unresolved, updating the application from the outdated version to the new version.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the hardware processor is configured to: in response to determining that the new version comprises the known security issues that are unresolved, delay updating the application to the new version until the known security issues are resolved.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is configured to restart the computing device subsequent to restoring the data.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is configured to disable the ports by either blocking or closing a portion of the ports from establishing the unauthorized network connections.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is configured to disable the services by suspending or stopping a portion of the services and system processes.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing thereon computer executable instructions for preventing malware reoccurrence when restoring a computing device using a backup image, including instructions for: identifying, from a plurality of backup images for a computing device, a backup image that was created most recently before the computing device was compromised; mounting the backup image as a disk and scanning the disk for malicious software; disabling all ports and services on the computing device to prevent unauthorized network connections and service launches; restoring data to the computing device from the mounted disk; updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches; and reopening the ports and restarting the services on the computing device subsequent to updating the software and applying the latest patches.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instruction for updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches further comprises instructions for: identifying a security issue that caused the computing device to be compromised; determining whether a patch that resolves the security issue exists; and in response to determining that the patch exists, installing the patch.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instruction for updating software on the computing device and applying latest patches further comprises instructions for: identifying an application that became infected and caused the computing device to be compromised, wherein a version of the application installed on the computing device is outdated and a new version of the application is available; determining whether the new version comprises known security issues that are unresolved; and in response to determining that the new version does not comprise known security issues that are unresolved, updating the application from the outdated version to the new version.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions for: in response to determining that the new version comprises the known security issues that are unresolved, delaying updating the application to the new version until the known security issues are resolved.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, further comprising instructions for restarting the computing device subsequent to restoring the data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instruction for disabling the ports comprises further instructions for either blocking or closing a portion of the ports from establishing the unauthorized network connections.
</claims>
</document>
