<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/46,F24F11/58,F24F11/64,F24F11/65,G05B13/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KYUNGJAE
PARK, GUNHYUK
LEE, JEHYEON
SONG, KWANWOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403509
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a communicator comprising a circuitry, a processor electronically connected to the communicator and controlling the communicator, and a memory electrically connected to the processor. The memory is configured to store instructions to control the processor to transmit control information acquired by applying target information of an air conditioning system to a learning network model to a plurality of air conditioning devices included in the air conditioning system via the communicator. The learning network model is a learning network model configured to, based on identifying that an error is present in an estimation result of energy consumption acquired based on a learning data, generate virtual data and be retrained based on the generated virtual data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device, comprising: a communicator comprising communication circuitry; a processor electronically connected to the communicator and configured to control the communicator; and a memory electrically connected to the processor, wherein the memory is configured to store instructions to control the processor to transmit control information, which is acquired by applying target information of an air conditioning system to a learning network model, to a plurality of air conditioning devices included in the air conditioning system via the communicator, and wherein the learning network model is configured to, based on identifying that an error is present in an estimation result of energy consumption acquired based on learning data, generate virtual data and be retrained based on the generated virtual data.
2. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: re-estimate energy consumption based on the learning data and the virtual data, and be retrained based on a result of re-estimation.
3. The electronic device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: acquire a setting value of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices, and minimize a sum of energy consumption of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices from among the re-estimated energy consumption.
4. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to learn a weight of a neural network included in the learning network model based on the learning data and the virtual data.
5. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning data includes previous driving data of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices, and wherein the previous driving data includes at least one of a setting value, energy consumption, outdoor air condition, air conditioning load, or indoor temperature and humidity data of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices.
6. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to identify whether an error with respect to an estimation result of the energy consumption is present based on a predetermined condition including a law of physics.
7. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to generate the virtual data based on learning data of a case where the estimated energy consumption is normal, wherein the learning data comprises data corresponding to a first condition, and wherein the virtual data comprises data corresponding to a second condition which is different from the first condition.
8. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: identify at least one of an application time point or application duration of the acquired control information based on an air conditioning load and an outdoor air condition, and output the identified application time point or application duration of the acquired control information.
9. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: transmit the control information to the plurality of air conditioning devices; and based on at least one of an indoor temperature data or humidity data acquired via the communicator not falling within a predetermined range, relearn the learning data and the virtual data based on the control information.
10. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the air conditioning system comprises a heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) device.
11. A control method, comprising: applying target information of an air conditioning system to a learning network model; and transmitting control information acquired by applying target information of the air conditioning system to the learning network model to a plurality of air conditioning devices included in the air conditioning system so as to control operation of the air conditioning system, wherein the learning network model is a learning network model configured to, based on identifying that an error is present in an estimation result of energy consumption acquired based on a learning data, generate virtual data, and be retrained based on the virtual data.
12. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: re-estimate energy consumption based on the learning data and the virtual data, and be retrained based on a result of the re-estimation.
13. The control method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the learning network model is further configured to: acquire a setting value of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices, and minimize a sum of energy consumption of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices from among the re-estimated energy consumption.
14. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning network model is further configured to learn a weight of a neural network included in the learning network model based on the learning data and the virtual data.
15. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning data includes previous driving data of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices, and wherein the previous driving data includes at least one of a setting value, energy consumption, outdoor air condition, air conditioning load, or indoor temperature and humidity data of each of the plurality of air conditioning devices.
16. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning network model is further configured to identify whether an error with respect to an estimation result of the energy consumption is present based on a predetermined condition including a law of physics.
17. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning network model is configured to generate the virtual data based on learning data of a case where estimated energy consumption is normal, wherein the learning data comprises data corresponding to a first condition, and wherein the virtual data comprises data corresponding to a second condition which is different from the first condition.
18. The control method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the predetermined condition represents a realistic range of temperatures that can be experienced on the surface of the Earth.
19. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the learning network model comprises a plurality of learning network models.
20. The control method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the plurality of learning network models comprises: a first learning network model configured to determine whether the error is present; and a second learning network model configured to generate the virtual data.
</claims>
</document>
