<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/48,G06F9/50,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARKAR, JAIDEEP
SONG, XINYING
SINGH, PRABHDEEP
LI, JINCHAO
SRIVASTAVA, KARAN
CAO, HAIYUAN
SU, HUI
WANG, YU
GAO, JINFENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68054391
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RESOURCE SCHEDULING USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Generally discussed herein are devices, systems, and methods for scheduling tasks to be completed by resources. A method can include identifying features of the task, the features including a time-dependent feature and a time-independent feature, the time-dependent feature indicating a time the task is more likely to be successfully completed by the resource, converting the features to feature values based on a predefined mapping of features to feature values in a first memory device, determining, by a gradient boost tree model and based on a first current time and the feature values, a likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task, and scheduling the task to be performed by the resource based on the determined likelihood.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A scheduler system to determine a schedule, the scheduler system comprising: at least one first memory device; processing circuitry coupled to the at least one first memory device, the processing circuitry to: determine feature values of features of a task based on a predefined mapping of the features to feature values in a first memory device of the at least one first memory device; determine, by a supervised machine learning model and based on a first current time and the feature values, a likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task within a time window; and schedule the task to be performed by the resource based on the determined likelihood.
2. The scheduler system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to, before determining the feature values, identify the features of the task, the features including a time-dependent feature and a time-independent feature, the time-dependent feature indicating a time the task is more likely to be successfully completed by a resource.
3. The scheduler system of claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry is further to determine a specified amount of time has elapsed since the determined likelihood was determined, and to re-determine the likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task, the likelihood re-determined by the machine learning model based on a second current time and the determined feature values.
4. The scheduler system of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is further to: receive an indication, at a time before the specified amount of time has elapsed, that a new feature for the task is available; and re-determine the likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task, the likelihood re-determined by the machine learning model based on a third current time, the feature values, and a feature value for the new feature.
5. The scheduler system of claim 3, wherein: the at least one memory device includes a second memory device; and the processing circuitry is further to: in response to a determination that a specified period of time has elapsed, access data stored in the second memory device during the specified period of time; and extract second features from the accessed data and store the second features in the first memory device.
6. The scheduler system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further to evaluate, by a first technique and while the scheduler system is offline, whether the machine learning model generates sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood.
7. The scheduler system of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry is further to evaluate, by a second technique and while the scheduler system is online, whether the machine learning model generates sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood, the second technique different from the first technique.
8. The scheduler system of claim 7, further comprising: a third memory device including historical data stored thereon that was generated before the data stored on the second memory device was generated; and wherein the processing circuitry is further to, in response to a determination by the first technique or the second technique that the machine learning model does not generate sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood, re-train the machine learning model based on data from the first, second, and third memory devices.
9. The scheduler system of claim 1, further comprising a fourth memory device including the likelihood indexed by task identification stored thereon, the fourth memory device local to the processing circuitry.
10. The scheduler system of claim 1, wherein the schedule is a call schedule for sales call resources to place calls to product sales leads.
11. The scheduler system of claim 10, wherein the features include phone call features indicating lead information features gathered on prior calls placed to the product sales leads, the lead information features indicating information of the product sales leads.
12. The scheduler system of claim 1, wherein: the phone call features include a lead identification that uniquely identifies the lead, a date a phone call was placed, a time the phone call started, a time the phone call ended, a disposition of the phone call, a description of the phone call, a topic of the phone call, and an identification of an operator receiving or placing the phone call; and the lead information features include the lead identification, a date the lead was created, business phone number or other phone number of the lead, a company with which the lead is associated, a country in which the lead is located, an email address of the lead, a name of the lead, a job title of an occupation of the lead, a tactic name associated with the lead, a status of the lead, and a priority of the lead.
13. The scheduler system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model includes a gradient boost tree model.
14. A non-transitory machine-readable medium including instructions that, when executed by a machine, configure the machine to perform operations of a sales lead call scheduler, the operations comprising: determine feature values of features of a task based on a predefined mapping of features to feature values in a first memory device; determining, using a supervised machine learning model and based on a first current time and the feature values, a likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task within a time window; and scheduling the task to be performed by the resource based on the determined likelihood.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise identifying features of a task, the features including a time-dependent feature and a time-independent feature, the time-dependent feature indicating a time between a current time and time a sales lead was identified;
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further include determining a specified amount of time has elapsed since the task was last scored and re-determining the likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task, the likelihood re-determined by the machine learning model based on a second current time and the feature values.
17. A method of scheduling a resource to perform a task by a scheduler system, the method comprising: determine feature values of features of a task based on a predefined mapping of features to feature values in a first memory device; determining, by a gradient boost tree model and based on a first current time and the feature values, a likelihood the resource will successfully complete the task within a time window; and scheduling the task to be performed by the resource based on the determined likelihood.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising evaluating, by an offline technique, whether the machine learning model is generating sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising evaluating, by an online technique, whether the machine learning model is generating sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood, the offline technique different from the online technique.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the scheduler system includes first, second, and third memory devices, the first memory device including feature values that represent values of respective features based on a predefined one-to-one mapping of features to feature values stored thereon, the second memory device including data stored received during the specified period of time stored thereon, and the third memory device including historical data stored thereon that was generated before the data stored on the second memory device was generated; and the method further includes, in response to a determination by the first technique or the second technique that the machine learning model is not generating sufficiently accurate predictions of likelihood, re-training the machine learning model based on data from the first, second, and third memory devices.
</claims>
</document>
