<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06K9/00,G06T15/06,G06T15/08,G06T15/20,G06T15/40,G06T17/20,G06T19/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/187,G06T7/50,G06T7/593
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIN, JIANYUAN
MOLYNEAUX, DAVID GEOFFREY
STEINBRÜCKER, FRANK THOMAS
WEI, XIAOLIN
WU, ZHONGLE
ZHANG, YIFU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66950474
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Caching and Updating of Dense 3D Reconstruction Data
</title>

<abstract>
A method to efficiently update and manage outputs of real time or offline 3D reconstruction and scanning in a mobile device having limited resource and connection to the Internet is provided. The method makes available to a wide variety of mobile XR applications fresh, accurate and comprehensive 3D reconstruction data, in either single user applications or multi-user applications sharing and updating the same 3D reconstruction data. The method includes a block-based 3D data representation that allows local update and maintains neighbor consistency at the same time, and a multi-layer caching mechanism that retrieves, prefetches, and stores 3D data efficiently for XR applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-14. (canceled)
15. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium encoded with a plurality of computer-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, perform a method for providing a 3D representation of a physical world, the method comprising: capturing 3D information about objects in a portion of the physical world that is within a first field-of-view (FOV) of a first user; representing the portion of the physical world as a first plurality of blocks of 3D reconstruction data, each block of 3D reconstruction data corresponding to a predetermined volume of the portion of the physical world; and persisting at least one of the first plurality of blocks of 3D reconstruction data in a cache when the user has a second FOV, the second FOV being different from the first FOV.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the persisted at least one of the first plurality of blocks of 3D reconstruction data represents the differences between the first FOV and the second FOV.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the first plurality of blocks of 3D reconstruction data are in the format of meshes, pointe clouds, or voxels.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the cache is a local cache of a portable electronic device on the first user or a remote cache of a computer network accessible by the portable electronic device on the first user.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the remote cache of the computer network persists at least one block of 3D reconstruction data from a second user.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the persisted at least one of the first plurality of blocks of 3D reconstruction data is merged with the at least one block of 3D reconstruction data from the second user based on a same coordinate system such that both the first user and the second user can request the merged blocks of 3D reconstruction from the remote cache of the computer network.
21. A method of operating an electronic system to provide information about objects in a physical world, wherein the electronic system comprises active memory and cache memory, the electronic system represents a 3D reconstruction of the physical world as a plurality of blocks, the electronic system comprises a portable, pointable component, based on actions of a user, at a portion of the physical world, and the portable, pointable component comprises at least one sensor, the method comprising: computing, based at least in part on an output of the at least one sensor, a region of the physical world at which the portable, pointable component will be pointed at a future time; and selecting blocks of the plurality of blocks based on the computed region.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: updating information stored in the active memory such that the active memory stores the selected blocks.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein updating information stored in the active memory comprises moving from the active memory to the cache memory blocks that were not selected.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein: the electronic system implements a service for supplying 3D reconstruction data to applications through an application interface, and the method further comprises selecting blocks from the active memory to supply an application through an application programming interface (API) based on changes to each of the blocks since a version of the block was last supplied to the application.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising: requesting the selected blocks from a remote memory of a computer network; and updating information stored in the cache memory such that the cache memory stores the selected blocks.
26. A system providing a cloud-based service for a plurality of portable electronic devices that track their respective locations with respect to a 3D environment, the system comprising: a communication interface configured to communicate with the plurality of portable electric devices, wherein the cloud service is configured to receive through the communication interface from one or more of the portable electronic devices dense representations of regions of the 3D environment; store the received dense representations as a stored representation of the 3D environment; receive through the communication interface from a portable device of the plurality of portable electronic devices an indication of a location of the device within the 3D environment; retrieve from the stored representation a dense representation of a portion of the 3D environment selected based on the received indication of the location; and communicate through the communication interface the retrieved dense representation of the selected portion of the 3D environment.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the cloud service is in a cache.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the dense representation of the selected portion is a mesh block.
29. The system of claim 26, wherein the cloud service is configured to receive through the communication interface from the one or more of the portable electronic devices dense representations of regions of the 3D environment when respective field-of-views (FOVs) of the one or more of the portable electronic devices change.
30. A system providing a cloud-based service for a plurality of portable electronic devices that track their respective locations with respect to a 3D environment and represent a portion of the 3D environment within their field-of-views (FOVs) with respect to their respective locations as blocks of 3D reconstruction data, each block of 3D reconstruction data corresponds to a predetermined volume of the 3D environment, the system comprising: a communication interface configured to communicate with the plurality of portable electric devices, wherein the cloud service is configured to receive through the communication interface from one or more of the portable electronic devices at least one block of 3D reconstruction data when respective FOVs of the one or more of the portable electronic devices change, and persist the at least one block of 3D reconstruction data as a persisted representation of the 3D environment.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the at least one block of 3D reconstruction data are in the format of meshes, pointe clouds, or voxels.
32. The system of claim 30, wherein the cloud service is in a cache.
33. The system of claim 30, wherein the cloud service is configured to receive through the communication interface from a portable device of the plurality of portable electronic devices an indication of a location of the device within the 3D environment; retrieve from the persisted representation one or more blocks of 3D reconstruction data selected based on the received indication of the location; and communicate through the communication interface the retrieved one or more blocks of 3D reconstruction data.
34. The system of claim 30, wherein the cloud service is configured to merge two or more blocks of 3D reconstruction data from the one or more of the portable electronic devices based on a same coordinate system.
</claims>
</document>
