<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D45/00,G05B23/02,G06N5/04,G07C5/00,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOGGIO, JOHN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63914748
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSUPERVISED MULTIVARIATE RELATIONAL FAULT DETECTION SYSTEM FOR A VEHICLE AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle fault detection system including a vehicle control module coupled to a plurality of vehicle system sensors configured to detect respective time series of data corresponding to a component parameter, the vehicle control module determines, based on domain knowledge obtained by the vehicle control module from only the respective time series of data, an existence of one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters, and identifies an anomaly in the respective time series of data and at least a vehicle component to be serviced based only on the domain knowledge and the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters. An indication of the anomaly in the respective time series of data and an identification of the vehicle component to be serviced are to be presented as a graphical representation that includes a strength of the one or more relationships between the component parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle fault detection system, comprising: a vehicle control module coupled to a plurality of sensors wherein the plurality of sensors are coupled to a vehicle system and configured to detect respective time series of data, each time series of data corresponding to a component parameter of a plurality of component parameters, the vehicle control module being configured to determine, based on domain knowledge obtained by the vehicle control module from only the respective time series of data, an existence of one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters, and identify at least one anomaly in the respective time series of data and at least a vehicle component to be serviced based only on the domain knowledge and the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters; and wherein an indication of the at least one anomaly in the respective time series of data and an identification of the vehicle component to be serviced are to be presented as a graphical representation on a user interface that is coupled to the vehicle control module, and the graphical representation comprises a strength of the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters.
2. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to predict a failure of a vehicle system component corresponding to one or more of the plurality of component parameters based on the at least one anomaly in the respective time series of data, and wherein the user interface is configured to present prediction of the failure of the vehicle system component.
3. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to classify each of the plurality of component parameters as being one of categorical or continuous.
4. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to determine the existence of the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters based on determining an effect on one of the plurality of component parameters that has been caused by another of the plurality of component parameters.
5. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, further comprising a vehicle interlock coupled with the vehicle control module, the vehicle interlock being configured to prevent an operation of a vehicle based on identification of the at least one anomaly.
6. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to: score the one or more relationships; and average the score over multiple excursions of a vehicle.
7. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 1, wherein the graphical representation comprises a post-flight vehicle maintenance report that comprises a failure prediction based on the at least one anomaly.
8. A vehicle fault detection system comprising: a first sensor coupled to a vehicle system and configured to detect a first time series of data of a first component parameter; a second sensor coupled to the vehicle system and configured to detect a second time series of data of a second component parameter; a vehicle control module coupled to the first sensor and the second sensor, the vehicle control module being configured to determine, based on domain knowledge obtained by the vehicle control module from only the first time series of data and the second time series of data, an existence of a relationship between the first component parameter and the second component parameter, and identify at least one anomaly in the one or more of the first time series of data and the second time series of data and at least a vehicle component to be serviced based only on the domain knowledge and the relationship between the first component parameter and the second component parameter; and a user interface coupled to the vehicle control module, the user interface being configured to present a strength of the relationship between the first component parameter and the second component parameter as a graphical representation that comprises an indication of the at least one anomaly in the one or more of the first time series of data and the second time series of data and an identification of the vehicle component to be serviced.
9. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 8, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to determine the existence of the relationship between the first component parameter and the second component parameter based on determining an effect on one of the first component parameter and the second component parameter that has been caused by another of the first component parameter and the second component parameter.
10. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 9, wherein the vehicle control module is configured to: identify at least one mode change event within one or more of the first time series of data and the second time series of data are identified based on a vehicle system control signal; and determine the effect based on comparing a determined characteristic of one or more of the first time series of data and the second time series of data before and after the at least one mode change event.
11. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 10, wherein the at least one mode change event is one of an increase in value or a decrease in value of a respective one of the first time series of data and the second time series of data.
12. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 10, wherein the determined characteristic is a coefficient of determination of one or more of the first time series of data and the second time series across the at least one mode change event.
13. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 9, further comprising a vehicle interlock coupled with the vehicle control module, the vehicle interlock being configured to prevent an operation of a vehicle based on identification of the at least one anomaly.
14. The vehicle fault detection system of claim 13, wherein the graphical representation comprises a post-flight vehicle maintenance report that comprises a failure prediction based on the at least one anomaly.
15. A method for vehicle fault detection, the method comprising: receiving from a plurality of sensors coupled to a vehicle system, respective time series of data, each time series of data corresponding to a component parameter of a plurality of component parameters; determining, by a vehicle control module comprising a processor and coupled to the plurality of sensors and based on domain knowledge obtained by the vehicle control module from only the respective time series of data, an existence of one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters; identifying, by the vehicle control module, at least one anomaly in the respective time series of data and at least a vehicle component to be serviced based only on the domain knowledge and the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters; and facilitating presentation of a graphical representation of both an indication of the at least one anomaly in the respective time series of data and a strength of the one or more relationships that indicates at least the vehicle component to be serviced via a user interface coupled to the vehicle control module.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising classifying, with the vehicle control module, each of the plurality of component parameters as being one of categorical or continuous.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising determining, with the vehicle control module, the existence of the one or more relationships between the plurality of component parameters based on determining an effect on one of the plurality of component parameters that has been caused by another of the plurality of component parameters.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the graphical representation comprises a post-flight vehicle maintenance report that comprises a failure prediction based on the at least one anomaly.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: scoring, with the vehicle control module, the one or more relationships; and averaging, with the vehicle control module, the score over multiple excursions of a vehicle.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising preventing operation of a vehicle with a vehicle interlock coupled vehicle control module based on identification of the at least one anomaly.
</claims>
</document>
