<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,G06F16/93,G06F40/253,G06N20/00,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EZEN CAN, AYSU
CONTRERAS, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458515
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive document quality determination with automated heuristic generation
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for cognitive document quality determination and automated heuristic generation are provided. A plurality of documents is received, where each of the plurality of documents contains natural language text. A plurality of values is determined for a first plurality of predefined attributes of the plurality of documents. A plurality of quality scores is generated for the plurality of documents by processing the plurality of values using a machine learning model, where the plurality of quality scores indicate a suitability of each of the plurality of documents to be processed using a target processing operation. A subset of documents is identified from the plurality of documents having respective quality scores below a predefined threshold. The subset of documents is flagged for further processing. At least one document of the plurality of documents that is not flagged is selectively processed using the target processing operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a plurality of documents, wherein each of the plurality of documents contains natural language text; determining a plurality of values for a first plurality of predefined attributes of the plurality of documents; generating a plurality of quality scores for the plurality of documents by processing the plurality of values using a machine learning model, wherein the plurality of quality scores indicate a suitability of each of the plurality of documents to be processed using a target processing operation; identifying a subset of documents from the plurality of documents having respective quality scores below a predefined threshold; flagging the subset of documents for further processing; and selectively processing, using the target processing operation, at least one document of the plurality of documents that is not flagged.
2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: determining an aggregate quality score based on the plurality of quality scores; and upon determining that the aggregate quality score is below a predefined threshold: refraining from processing any of the plurality of documents using the target processing operation; and flagging the plurality of documents for further processing.
3. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: receiving approval of a first document in the subset of documents; and processing the first document using the target processing operation.
4. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: receiving a first set of documents that were successfully processed using the target processing operation; receiving a second set of documents that were unsuccessfully processed using the target processing operation; and training the machine learning model based on the first and second sets of documents.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the machine learning model was trained based on a second plurality of predefined attributes associated with the first set of documents, and a third plurality of attributes associated with the second set of documents, the method further comprising: receiving an indication that a first document is suitable for processing using the target processing operation; identifying a new attribute of the first document, wherein a value of the new attribute with respect to the first document differs from a value of the new attribute with respect to the second set of documents; and refining the machine learning model based on the new attribute.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the target processing operation comprises a natural language processing (NLP) operation.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first plurality of predefined attributes includes: (i) a number of sentences, (ii) a percentage of complete sentences, (iii) an average sentence length, (iv) a number of blank spaces between sentences, (v) a number of blank spaces between tokens, (vi) a number of structured document tags, and (vii) a number of sentences per section.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of documents comprise electronic medical records (EMRs).
9. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, the computer-readable program code executable by one or more computer processors to perform an operation comprising: receiving a plurality of documents, wherein each of the plurality of documents contains natural language text; determining a plurality of values for a first plurality of predefined attributes of the plurality of documents; generating a plurality of quality scores for the plurality of documents by processing the plurality of values using a machine learning model, wherein the plurality of quality scores indicate a suitability of each of the plurality of documents to be processed using a target processing operation; identifying a subset of documents from the plurality of documents having respective quality scores below a predefined threshold; flagging the subset of documents for further processing; and selectively processing, using the target processing operation, at least one document of the plurality of documents that is not flagged.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, the operation further comprising: determining an aggregate quality score based on the plurality of quality scores; and upon determining that the aggregate quality score is below a predefined threshold: refraining from processing any of the plurality of documents using the target processing operation; and flagging the plurality of documents for further processing.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, the operation further comprising: receiving approval of a first document in the subset of documents; and processing the first document using the target processing operation.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, the operation further comprising: receiving a first set of documents that were successfully processed using the target processing operation; receiving a second set of documents that were unsuccessfully processed using the target processing operation; and training the machine learning model based on the first and second sets of documents.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the machine learning model was trained based on a second plurality of predefined attributes associated with the first set of documents, and a third plurality of attributes associated with the second set of documents, the operation further comprising: receiving an indication that a first document is suitable for processing using the target processing operation; identifying a new attribute of the first document, wherein a value of the new attribute with respect to the first document differs from a value of the new attribute with respect to the second set of documents; and refining the machine learning model based on the new attribute.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the first plurality of predefined attributes includes: (i) a number of sentences, (ii) a percentage of complete sentences, (iii) an average sentence length, (iv) a number of blank spaces between sentences, (v) a number of blank spaces between tokens, (vi) a number of structured document tags, and (vii) a number of sentences per section.
15. A system comprising: one or more computer processors; and a memory containing a program which when executed by the one or more computer processors performs an operation, the operation comprising: receiving a plurality of documents, wherein each of the plurality of documents contains natural language text; determining a plurality of values for a first plurality of predefined attributes of the plurality of documents; generating a plurality of quality scores for the plurality of documents by processing the plurality of values using a machine learning model, wherein the plurality of quality scores indicate a suitability of each of the plurality of documents to be processed using a target processing operation; identifying a subset of documents from the plurality of documents having respective quality scores below a predefined threshold; flagging the subset of documents for further processing; and selectively processing, using the target processing operation, at least one document of the plurality of documents that is not flagged
16. The system of claim 15, the operation further comprising: determining an aggregate quality score based on the plurality of quality scores; and upon determining that the aggregate quality score is below a predefined threshold: refraining from processing any of the plurality of documents using the target processing operation; and flagging the plurality of documents for further processing.
17. The system of claim 15, the operation further comprising: receiving approval of a first document in the subset of documents; and processing the first document using the target processing operation.
18. The system of claim 15, the operation further comprising: receiving a first set of documents that were successfully processed using the target processing operation; receiving a second set of documents that were unsuccessfully processed using the target processing operation; and training the machine learning model based on the first and second sets of documents.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the machine learning model was trained based on a second plurality of predefined attributes associated with the first set of documents, and a third plurality of attributes associated with the second set of documents, the operation further comprising: receiving an indication that a first document is suitable for processing using the target processing operation; identifying a new attribute of the first document, wherein a value of the new attribute with respect to the first document differs from a value of the new attribute with respect to the second set of documents; and refining the machine learning model based on the new attribute.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first plurality of predefined attributes includes: (i) a number of sentences, (ii) a percentage of complete sentences, (iii) an average sentence length, (iv) a number of blank spaces between sentences, (v) a number of blank spaces between tokens, (vi) a number of structured document tags, and (vii) a number of sentences per section.
</claims>
</document>
