<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G05D1/02,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
VOZNESENSKY, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MONITORING AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE ROUTE CONFORMANCE FOR IMPROVED EFFICIENCY
</title>

<abstract>
Autonomous vehicles are requested to execute a route from an origin location to a destination location. The route specifies one or more waypoints between the origin location and the destination location, with the autonomous vehicle requested to transit from the origin location to the destination location via the waypoints. Some autonomous vehicles vary their route and do not necessarily visit each of the specified waypoints along the route. To improve adherence to the waypoints specified in the route, an arranger assigns a weight to each of the waypoints. The weight is used to score the vehicle's performance of the route based at least in part on whether the vehicle visited each of the waypoints and the weight associated with each of the waypoints. The score is used to control dispatch of additional service requests to the autonomous vehicle or other autonomous vehicles operated by the same operator or manufacturer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating a route for a vehicle, the route including a plurality of waypoints between origin and destination for the route; assigning a corresponding weight to each of the waypoints; requesting a vehicle to execute the route; monitoring a position of the vehicle during the execution of the route; determining a number of waypoints traversed by the vehicle during the execution of the route based on the monitoring; determining a score for the vehicle's execution of the route based on the number of waypoints and the corresponding weights; and applying the score to operation of the vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a deviation reason from the vehicle, wherein the score of the vehicle's execution of the route is further based on the deviation reason.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the score comprises: determining an aggregated score for each a plurality of vehicle types; receiving a plurality of service requests; and allocating the plurality of service requests to vehicles of each vehicle type in accordance with the aggregated score of the vehicle type.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of service requests are allocated to each vehicle type in proportion to the aggregated score of the vehicle type.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a fare for the route; determining a first portion of the fare and a second portion of the fare; adjusting the second portion of the fare based on the number of waypoints traversed; and providing the fare to an operator of the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second portion is further adjusted based on the weights of the waypoints.
7. A system, comprising: hardware processing circuitry; and one or more hardware memories comprising instructions that when executed configure the hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: generating a route for a vehicle, the route including a plurality of waypoints between an origin and destination for the route; assigning a corresponding weight to each of the waypoints; requesting a vehicle to execute the route; monitoring a position of the vehicle during the execution of the route; determining a number of waypoints traversed by the vehicle during the execution of the route based on the monitoring; determining a score for the vehicle's execution of the route based on the number of waypoints and the corresponding weights; and applying the score to operation of the vehicle.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the vehicle is an autonomous vehicle.
9. The system of claim 7, the operations further comprising receiving a deviation reason from the vehicle, wherein the score of the vehicle's execution of the route is further based on the deviation reason.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the deviation reason indicates the vehicle deviated from the route due to one of an accident, a road closure, or a request from a rider.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein applying the score comprises: determining aggregated scores for each of a plurality of vehicle types; receiving a plurality of service requests; and allocating the plurality of service requests to each type of vehicle based on the aggregated scores.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of service requests are allocated to each vehicle type in proportion to the aggregated score of the vehicle type.
13. The system of claim 7, the operations further comprising: determining a fare for the route; determining a first portion of the fare and a second portion of the fare; adjusting the second portion of the fare based on the number of waypoints traversed; and providing the fare to an operator of the vehicle.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the second portion is further adjusted based on the weights of the waypoints.
15. The system of claim 7, the operations further comprising terminating the execution of the route in response to the position of the vehicle deviating from the route more than a threshold distance.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed configure hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: generating a route for a vehicle, the route including a plurality of waypoints between origin and destination for the route; assigning a corresponding weight to each of the waypoints; requesting a vehicle to execute the route; monitoring a position of the vehicle during the execution of the route; determining a number of waypoints traversed by the vehicle during the execution of the route based on the monitoring; determining a score for the vehicle's execution of the route based on the number of waypoints and the corresponding weights; and applying the score to operation of the vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, the operations further comprising receiving a deviation reason from the vehicle, wherein the score of the vehicle's execution of the route is further based on the deviation reason.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein applying the score comprises: determining aggregated scores for each type of vehicle of a plurality of vehicle types; receiving a plurality of service requests; and allocating the plurality of service requests to each vehicle type in accordance with the aggregated score of the vehicle type.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the plurality of service requests are allocated to each vehicle type in proportion to the aggregated score of the vehicle type.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, the operations further comprising: determining a fare for the route; determining a first portion of the fare and a second portion of the fare; adjusting the second portion of the fare based on the number of waypoints traversed and the weights of the waypoints; and providing the fare to an operator of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
