<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/953,G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELASTICSEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kobel, Brandon
Gregory, IV, Lawrence Everett
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Configurable Feature Level Controls for Data
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for providing configurable feature level controls for data. The data can be associated with data visualization and analysis in a distributed search engine environment. An example method comprises providing a user interface for enabling a selection of a type of access to grant for each feature of a plurality of features, the selection being on a feature-by-feature basis and the selection being assigned to selected roles; and in response to the selection of the type of access, automatically controlling the type of access to each of the features including determining whether a user has any role to which a particular feature has been assigned; and based on the determining, for users having any of the selected roles, permitting the type of access selected for the particular feature assigned to the selected roles. The types of access may comprise read-only, full, no access, or differing levels of access.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing configurable feature level controls for data, the method comprising: providing a user interface for enabling a selection of a type of access to grant for each feature of a plurality of features, the selection being on a feature-by-feature basis and the selection being assigned to one or more selected roles, the plurality of features including only those features that are visible for all users for a particular space if access is limited to certain spaces; and in response to the selection of the type of access, automatically controlling the type of access to each of the features of the plurality of features, the automatic controlling, for a particular feature of the plurality of features, including: determining whether a user has any role of the one or more selected roles to which the particular feature of the plurality of features has been assigned; and based on the determining, for users having any of the one or more selected roles, permitting the type of access selected for the particular feature of the plurality of features assigned to the one or more selected roles.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of features is an application or plug-in within an environment.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the environment comprises data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the environment comprises data visualization.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the visualizations comprise dashboards, histograms, line graphs, or pie charts.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the types of access comprises whether the feature is visible to the users having particular roles.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the types of access comprises different privileges with respect to the feature.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the types of access selectable via the user interface include granting: no access, read-only access, full access, or various levels of access, to the feature.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: based on at least one role of the user, automatically limiting access to the user to one or more spaces of a plurality of spaces, such that the one or more spaces is accessible to the user, each space of the plurality of spaces containing a number of saved objects, the saved objects being dashboards, visualizations, or other objects.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: providing another user interface for selecting, for each space of the plurality of spaces, whether each feature of the plurality of features is visible or hidden.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the automatically controlling is also a function of whether the user is in the particular space and whether the particular feature is visible or hidden for the particular space.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the automatically controlling is also a function of whether the feature is enabled for the user's role.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the automatically controlling further comprises: determining whether the user is in the particular space and whether the particular feature has been selected as visible or hidden for the particular space.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the automatically controlling further comprises: permitting the selected type of access only if the user is determined to be in the particular space and it is determined that the selected feature is visible for the particular space.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing for registering at least some of the features of the plurality of features to declare actions permitted for full access, actions permitted for read-only access, and actions permitted for differing levels of access, wherein the particular feature is an application or plug-in.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the automatically controlling the type of access to each of the feature of the plurality of features, is a function of the registering.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the registering further comprises declaring corresponding user interface capabilities that are part of the feature.
18. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: providing a user interface for enabling a selection of a type of access to grant for each feature of a plurality of features, the selection being on a feature-by-feature basis and the selection being assigned to one or more selected roles, the plurality of features including only those features that are visible for a particular space if access is limited to certain spaces; and in response to the selection of the type of access, automatically controlling the type of access to each of the features of the plurality of features, the automatic controlling, for a particular feature of the plurality of features, including: determining whether a user has any role of the one or more selected roles to which the particular feature of the plurality of features has been assigned; and based on the determining, for users having any of the selected one or more roles, permitting the type of access selected for the particular feature of the plurality of features assigned to the one or more selected roles.
19. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to perform a method for providing configurable feature level controls for data, the method comprising based on at least one role of a user, automatically controlling on a feature-by-feature basis privileges of a user to access features of a plurality of features, each of the features being applications.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the automatically controlling comprises creating a set of rules for configuring a distributed search engine environment so only a certain set of users is able to use certain applications in the distributed search engine environment.
</claims>
</document>
