<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLE, RAMSAY
GHOSH, DEBASHIS
NEWMAN, KURT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610059
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUSINESS INSIGHT GENERATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus, and computer program product for digitally presenting statistically-relevant business insights into a set of business metrics for an organization. A computer system identifies a set of organizational characteristics from human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations, and applies a selected inclusion criteria to the set of organizational characteristics to identify a set of candidate organizations. The computer system identifies a set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations, and creates a fixed panel of the benchmark organizations. The computer system applies the fixed panel to the human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations to create an analysis dataset that consists of human resources data of employees of the benchmark organizations. The computer system generates a business insight into the set of business metrics of the organization based on the analysis dataset, and digitally presents the business insight.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for digitally presenting statistically-relevant business insights into a set of business metrics for an organization, the method comprising: identifying, by a computer system, a set of organizational characteristics from human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations; applying, by the computer system, a selected inclusion criteria to the set of organizational characteristics to identify a set of candidate organizations; identifying, by the computer system, a set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations; creating, by the computer system, a fixed panel of the benchmark organizations; applying, by the computer system, the fixed panel to the human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations to create an analysis dataset, wherein the analysis dataset consists of human resources data of employees of the benchmark organizations; generating, by the computer system, a business insight into the set of business metrics of the organization based on the analysis dataset; and digitally presenting, by the computer system, the business insight.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the set of benchmark organizations further comprises: identifying an underrepresented trait based on an distribution imbalance in an organizational characteristic for the set of candidate organizations; and identifying a the set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations, wherein the set of benchmark organizations does not have the underrepresented trait of the organizational characteristic.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the set of organizational characteristics further comprises: identifying the set of set of organizational characteristics from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations, wherein the organizational characteristics are selected from a payroll services beginning date, a payroll services ending date, an industry of the organization, a sub industry of the organization, a geographic region of the organization, a number of employees of the organization, a Collection of Job Codes of the organization, a Range of Salary Amounts of the organization, and a Range of Part-Time to Full-Time Employees of the organization.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected inclusion criteria is at least one organizational characteristic selected from the set of organizational characteristics identified from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: generating a set of distributions for a set of facts of human resources data based on the selected Inclusion criteria.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: Generating a set of Statistics for the set of organizational characteristics in relation to the set of distributions.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the set of statistics comprises at least one of an absolute difference, a percentage difference, a Z-score, a p-value, a percentile rank, and combinations thereof.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing, by the computer system, an operation for the organization based on the business insight, wherein the operation is enabled based on the business insight.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the operation is selected from hiring operations, benefits administration operations, payroll operations, performance review operations, forming teams for new products, and assigning research projects.
10. A computer system comprising: a hardware processor; a display system; and an insight engine in communication with the hardware processor and the display system, wherein the insight engine: identifies a set of organizational characteristics from human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations; applies a selected inclusion criteria to the set of organizational characteristics to identify a set of candidate organizations; identifies a set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations; creates a fixed panel of the benchmark organizations; applies the fixed panel to the human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations to create an analysis dataset, wherein the analysis dataset consists of human resources data of employees of the benchmark organizations; generates a business insight into the set of business metrics of the organization based on the analysis dataset; and digitally presents the business insight.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the insight engine identifying the set of benchmark organizations further comprises: identifying an underrepresented trait based on an distribution imbalance in an organizational characteristic for the set of candidate organizations; and identifying a the set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations, wherein the set of benchmark organizations does not have the underrepresented trait of the organizational characteristic.
12. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the insight engine identifying the set of organizational characteristics further comprises: identifying the set of set of organizational characteristics from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations, wherein the organizational characteristics are selected from a payroll services beginning date, a payroll services ending date, an industry of the organization, a sub industry of the organization, a geographic region of the organization, a number of employees of the organization, a Collection of Job Codes of the organization, a Range of Salary Amounts of the organization, and a Range of Part-Time to Full-Time Employees of the organization.
13. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the selected inclusion criteria is at least one organizational characteristic selected from the set of organizational characteristics identified from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the insight engine further: generates a set of distributions for a set of facts of human resources data based on the selected Inclusion criteria.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the insight engine further: generates a set of Statistics for the set of organizational characteristics in relation to the set of distributions.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the set of statistics comprises at least one of an absolute difference, a percentage difference, a Z-score, a p-value, a percentile rank, and combinations thereof.
17. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the computer system: performs an operation for the organization based on the business insight, wherein the operation is enabled based on the business insight.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the operation is selected from hiring operations, benefits administration operations, payroll operations, performance review operations, forming teams for new products, and assigning research projects.
19. A computer program product for digitally presenting statistically-relevant business insights into a set of business metrics for an organization, the computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer readable storage medium; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for identifying a set of organizational characteristics from human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for applying a selected inclusion criteria to the set of organizational characteristics to identify a set of candidate organizations; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for identifying a set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for creating a fixed panel of the benchmark organizations; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for applying the fixed panel to the human resources data of employees of a plurality of organizations to create an analysis dataset, wherein the analysis dataset consists of human resources data of employees of the benchmark organizations; program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for generating a business insight into the set of business metrics of the organization based on the analysis dataset; and program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for digitally presenting the business insight.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the program code for identifying the set of benchmark organizations further comprises: program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for identifying an underrepresented trait based on an distribution imbalance in an organizational characteristic for the set of candidate organizations; and program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for identifying a the set of benchmark organizations from the set of candidate organizations, wherein the set of benchmark organizations does not have the underrepresented trait of the organizational characteristic.
21. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the program code for identifying the set of organizational characteristics further comprises: program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for Identifying the set of set of organizational characteristics from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations, wherein the organizational characteristics are selected from a payroll services beginning date, a payroll services ending date, an industry of the organization, a sub industry of the organization, a geographic region of the organization, a number of employees of the organization, a Collection of Job Codes of the organization, a Range of Salary Amounts of the organization, a Range of Part-Time to Full-Time Employees of the organization,
22. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the selected inclusion criteria is at least one organizational characteristic selected from the set of organizational characteristics identified from the human resources data of employees of the plurality of organizations.
23. The computer program product of claim 22, further comprising: program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for generating a set of distributions for a set of facts of human resources data based on the selected Inclusion criteria.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, further comprising: program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for Generating a set of Statistics for the set of organizational characteristics in relation to the set of distributions.
25. The computer program product of claim 24, wherein the set of statistics comprises at least one of an absolute difference, a percentage difference, a Z-score, a p-value, a percentile rank, and combinations thereof.
26. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising: program code, stored on the computer readable storage medium, for performing an operation for the organization based on the business insight, wherein the operation is enabled based on the business insight.
27. The computer program product of claim 26, wherein the operation is selected from hiring operations, benefits administration operations, payroll operations, performance review operations, forming teams for new products, and assigning research projects.
</claims>
</document>
