<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N1/36,G01N15/14,G01N33/574,G02B21/16,G16H30/20,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
BETH ISRAEL DEACONESS MEDICAL CENTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOYDEN, EDWARD, STUART
ZHAO, YONGXIN
BUCUR, OCTAVIAN
BECK, ANDREW HANNO
IRSHAD, HUMAYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63254139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods for Diagnosing Neoplastic Lesions
</title>

<abstract>
A method for diagnosing cancer in an expanded biological tissue sample of a patient comprising providing at least one sample image of the expanded biological tissue sample; providing a computer configured to analyze the sample; analyzing, with the computer, the sample detect and segment nuclei; calculating, with the computer, molecular characteristics of those nuclei; and determining, with the computer, a diagnosis of cancer of the sample by comparing the sample with a benign normal tissue reference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for diagnosing a neoplastic lesion in an expanded biological tissue sample of a patient comprising providing at least one sample image of the expanded biological tissue sample; providing a computer configured to analyze the sample; analyzing, with the computer, the sample, detecting and segmenting nuclei; calculating, with the computer, molecular characteristics of those nuclei; and determining, with the computer, a diagnosis of the pathology of the sample by comparing the sample with a normal tissue reference.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the neoplastic lesion is cancer.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the cancer is a solid tumor.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the solid tumor is selected from breast cancer, ovarian cancer, in particular ovarian adenocarcinoma and ovarian teratocarcinoma, lung cancer, including small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), in particular squamous cell lung carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, gastric cancer, hepatic cancer, pancreatic cancer, skin cancer, in particular basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma, malignant melanoma, head and neck cancer, in particular malignant pleomorphic adenoma, sarcoma, in particular synovial sarcoma and carcinosarcoma, bile duct cancer, cancer of the urinary bladder, in particular transitional cell carcinoma and papillary carcinoma, kidney cancer, in particular renal cell carcinoma including clear cell renal cell carcinoma and papillary renal cell carcinoma, colon cancer, small bowel cancer, including cancer of the ileum, in particular small bowel adenocarcinoma and adenocarcinoma of the ileum, testicular embryonal carcinoma, placental choriocarcinoma, cervical cancer, testicular cancer, in particular testicular seminoma, testicular teratoma and embryonic testicular cancer, and uterine cancer.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the neoplastic lesion is a benign neoplasm.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one image of an expanded tissue sample is captured using an imaging device. (Original) The method according to claim 6, wherein the imaging device is a microscope.
8. A computer-implemented method for diagnosis of breast neoplastic lesions, the method comprising: (a) providing a system comprising a computer information pertaining to at least one image of an expanded tissue sample; (b) evaluating, using the computer, at least one image and detecting and segmenting nuclei by applying at least a segmentation analysis to the sample image; (c) evaluating, using the processor, the information of step (b) with an algorithm configured as code executing in the computer, where the algorithm configures the processor to output a value corresponding to (i) a risk score for cancer occurrence or (ii) a diagnosis of the sample.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising generating, using the computer, a report based on the risk of cancer occurrence assigned to the patient/diagnosis of cancer in the patient.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein at least one image of an expanded tissue sample is captured using an imaging device.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the imaging device is a microscope or a pathology slide scanner.
12. A method for diagnosing breast cancer in a patient, the method comprising: (1) capturing, with an imaging device, at least one sample image of an expanded tissue sample; (2) accessing from a database, using a processor configured by code executing therein, a patient dataset containing clinical feature data values for the patient corresponding to breast cancer; (3) evaluating, using the processor, at least one sample image recorded by the imaging device and deriving: a. hundreds of molecular feature values indicative of phenotypic information of nuclei/molecular regions of tissue by applying first detection and segmentation of these regions and then computing phenotypic characteristics in the sample image; and b. a plurality of morphometric measurements; (4) updating the patient dataset using the processor, by associating with each patient dataset the derived molecular feature values and morphometric measurements; (5) evaluating, using the processor, the updated patient dataset of step (4) with an algorithm configured as code executing in the processor, where the algorithm configures the processor to output values corresponding to a diagnosis of the sample.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising generating, using the processor, a report based on the diagnosis of cancer in the patient.
14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the imaging device is a microscope.
15. The method according to claim 12, wherein the morphometric measurements relate to the shape, size, intensity distribution and/or texture of the molecular regions.
16. (canceled)
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the expandable sample is prepared by (a) contacting the sample with a bi-functional linker; (b) permeating the sample with precursors of a swellable material (c) polymerizing the precursors to form a swellable polymer within the sample, wherein the bi-functional linker attaches (or crosslinks) to the swellable material; (d) incubating the sample with a non-specific protease in a buffer comprising a metal ion chelator, a nonionic surfactant, and a monovalent salt.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the bi-functional linker attaches to the swellable material during polymerization.
19. The method according to claim 17, wherein the bi-functional linker attaches to the swellable material after polymerization.
20. The method according to claim 17, wherein the bi-functional linker comprises a protein-reactive chemical moiety and a gel-reactive chemical moiety.
21. The method according to claim 20, wherein the protein-reactive chemical moiety is a succinimidyl ester of 6-((acryloyl)amino) hexanoic acid (AcX).
22. The method according to claim 17, further comprising expanding the sample by contacting the swellable polymer with a solvent or liquid to cause the swellable polymer to swell.
23. The method according to claim 17, wherein the sample is a previously preserved clinical sample.
24. The method according to claim 23, wherein the sample is a formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) or a hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) stained tissue sample, or a fresh frozen sample.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein prior to examining the sample is subjected to (i) de-coverslipping the sample if it is mounted; (ii) treating the sample to mounting medium removal; (iii) treating the sample to re-hydration if step (ii) is performed; and (iv) subjecting the sample to antigen-retrieval.
26. The method according to claim 17, wherein the sample is incubated with about 1 to about 100 U/ml of a non-specific protease in a buffer having a pH between about 4 and about 12, the buffer comprising about 5 mM to about 100 mM of a metal ion chelator; about 0.1% to about 1.0% of a nonionic surfactant; and about 0.05 M to about 1.0 M monovalent salt.
</claims>
</document>
