<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/25,H04N21/258,H04N21/45,H04N21/466
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CONVIVA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANJAM, ADITYA RAVIKUMAR
ZHAN, JIBIN
LI, WEIJIA
LIU, MING
CHE, SAIGUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838709
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PER-VIEWER ENGAGEMENT-BASED VIDEO OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Per-viewer engagement-based video optimization is disclosed. A request for content associated with a first client is received. A model associated with the first client is obtained. The obtained model comprises at least one of behavior and playback preferences of a viewer associated with the first client. The obtained model is used to determine, for the first client, an optimal set of instructions usable to obtain content. A different set of instructions is determined to be optimal for a second client. The optimal set of instructions determined for the client is provided as output. The first client is configured to obtain content according to the optimal set of instructions determined for the first client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor configured to: receive a request for content associated with a current streaming session; determine that a viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer; in response to determining that the viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer, classify the new viewer; based at least in part on the classification, identify a set of other viewers similar to the new viewer; and based at least in part on historical viewing experience and reaction information associated with the identified set of other viewers, determine a set of control parameters for the current streaming session, wherein the historical viewing experience and reaction information that is used to determine the set control parameters for the current streaming session comprises information associated with reactions of the identified set of other viewers with respect to viewing experiences associated with previous streaming sessions; and a memory coupled to the processor and configured to provide the processor with instructions.
2. The system recited in claim 1 wherein viewing experience information associated with a previous streaming session comprises at least one of an initial bitrate, an initial content delivery network (CDN), a player buffer size, download speed, and an amount of time before content began playing during the previous streaming session.
3. The system recited in claim 2 wherein information associated with a viewer reaction with respect to the viewing experience associated with the previous streaming session comprises one or more indications of viewer engagement with respect to the previous streaming session.
4. The system recited in claim 3 wherein the one or more indications of viewer engagement comprise at least one of an indication of whether a viewer quit the previous streaming, an amount of time before the viewer returned to viewing content that they quit, an indication of whether the viewer restarted viewing of content, an indication of whether the viewer quit the previous streaming session to view another content item, an indication of whether the viewer paused or fast forwarded the content, and an indication of whether the viewer quit before content started playing.
5. The system recited in claim 1 wherein the set of control parameters comprises at least one of an initial bitrate, an initial content delivery network (CDN), an initial player buffer size, and an indication of when to switch bitrates.
6. The system recited in claim 1 wherein the new viewer is classified based at least in part on a set of attributes comprising one or more of the content being requested, a type of the content, a client device type, network conditions, publisher, a website from which the request was made, a referred website, and a geographic region associated with a client device on which the current streaming session was initiated.
7. The system recited in claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to use the historical viewing and experience information associated with the identified set of other viewers to generate a model of the new viewer, wherein the model comprises a model of the new viewer's behaviors and preferences, and wherein the model is used to determine the set of control parameters.
8. The system recited in claim 7 wherein the processor is further configured to establish a record for the new viewer and store the model generated for the new viewer to the established record.
9. The system recited in claim 7 wherein the processor is configured to collect viewing experience and reaction information for the current streaming session, and wherein the model is updated based at least in part on the viewing experience and reaction information collected for the current streaming session.
10. The system recited in claim 7 wherein a plurality of models is generated for the new viewer, and wherein each model in the plurality of models corresponds to a different type of content.
11. A method, comprising: receiving a request for content associated with a current streaming session; determining that a viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer; in response to determining that the viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer, classifying the new viewer; based at least in part on the classification, identifying a set of other viewers similar to the new viewer; and based at least in part on historical viewing experience and reaction information associated with the identified set of other viewers, determining a set of control parameters for the current streaming session, wherein the historical viewing experience and reaction information that is used to determine the set control parameters for the current streaming session comprises information associated with reactions of the identified set of other viewers with respect to viewing experiences associated with previous streaming sessions.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein viewing experience information associated with a previous streaming session comprises at least one of an initial bitrate, an initial content delivery network (CDN), a player buffer size, download speed, and an amount of time before content began playing during the previous streaming session.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein information associated with a viewer reaction with respect to the viewing experience associated with the previous streaming session comprises one or more indications of viewer engagement with respect to the previous streaming session.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the one or more indications of viewer engagement comprise at least one of an indication of whether a viewer quit the previous streaming, an amount of time before the viewer returned to viewing content that they quit, an indication of whether the viewer restarted viewing of content, an indication of whether the viewer quit the previous streaming session to view another content item, an indication of whether the viewer paused or fast forwarded the content, and an indication of whether the viewer quit before content started playing.
15. The method of claim 11 wherein the set of control parameters comprises at least one of an initial bitrate, an initial content delivery network (CDN), an initial player buffer size, and an indication of when to switch bitrates.
16. The method of claim 11 wherein the new viewer is classified based at least in part on a set of attributes comprising one or more of the content being requested, a type of the content, a client device type, network conditions, publisher, a website from which the request was made, a referred website, and a geographic region associated with a client device on which the current streaming session was initiated.
17. The method of claim 11 further comprising using the historical viewing and experience information associated with the identified set of other viewers to generate a model of the new viewer, wherein the model comprises a model of the new viewer's behaviors and preferences, and wherein the model is used to determine the set of control parameters.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising establishing a record for the new viewer and store the model generated for the new viewer to the established record.
19. The method of claim 17 further comprising collecting viewing experience and reaction information for the current streaming session, and wherein the model is updated based at least in part on the viewing experience and reaction information collected for the current streaming session.
20. The method of claim 17 wherein a plurality of models is generated for the new viewer, and wherein each model in the plurality of models corresponds to a different type of content.
21. A computer program product embodied in a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and comprising computer instructions for: receiving a request for content associated with a current streaming session; determining that a viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer; in response to determining that the viewer associated with the current streaming session is a new viewer, classifying the new viewer; based at least in part on the classification, identifying a set of other viewers similar to the new viewer; and based at least in part on historical viewing experience and reaction information associated with the identified set of other viewers, determining a set of control parameters for the current streaming session, wherein the historical viewing experience and reaction information that is used to determine the set control parameters for the current streaming session comprises information associated with reactions of the identified set of other viewers with respect to viewing experiences associated with previous streaming sessions.
</claims>
</document>
