<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F16/27,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BECHT, MICHAEL JAMES
CATALANO, PASQUALE A.
COLONNA, CHRISTOPHER
GUENDERT, STEPHEN ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747900
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC DISK REPLICATION MODE SELECTION BASED ON STORAGE AREA NETWORK LATENCY
</title>

<abstract>
An aspect includes monitoring, by a server, a round trip latency between a primary storage device and a secondary storage device in a SAN. The secondary storage device replicates the primary storage device in a replication mode that is either an asynchronous replication mode or a synchronous replication mode. Based on the replication mode being the asynchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has decreased to a value below a synchronous latency threshold value, the replication mode is set to the synchronous replication mode. Based on the replication mode being the synchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has increased to a value above the synchronous latency threshold value, the replication mode is set to the asynchronous replication mode. The monitoring is repeated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: monitoring, by a server, a round trip latency between a primary storage device and a secondary storage device in a SAN, the secondary storage device replicating the primary storage device in a replication mode selected from the group consisting of an asynchronous replication mode and a synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the asynchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has decreased to a value below a synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the synchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has increased to a value above the synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the asynchronous replication mode; and repeating the monitoring.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the primary storage device includes a first host bus adapter (HBA) and the secondary storage device includes a second HBA, and the latency is monitored between the first HBA and the second HBA.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the primary storage device includes a host bus adapter (HBA) and the latency is monitored between the HBA and the storage device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the server is in communication with a switch in the SAN that is programmed to receive responses from write requests and the responses received at the switch are used by the server to perform the monitoring.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the switch is a fiber connection director switch.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting that the round trip latency has decreased or increased is based on an average of the round trip latency over a period of time.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the setting the replication mode comprises the server issuing a command to the primary storage device instructing the primary storage device to change the replication mode.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the setting the replication mode further comprises the server issuing a command to the secondary storage device instructing the secondary storage device to change the replication mode.
9. A system comprising: a memory having computer readable instructions; and one or more processors for executing the computer readable instructions, the computer readable instructions controlling the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: monitoring, by a server, a round trip latency between a primary storage device and a secondary storage device in a SAN, the secondary storage device replicating the primary storage device in a replication mode selected from the group consisting of an asynchronous replication mode and a synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the asynchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has decreased to a value below a synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the synchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has increased to a value above the synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the asynchronous replication mode; and repeating the monitoring.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the primary storage device includes a first host bus adapter (HBA) and the secondary storage device includes a second HBA, and the latency is monitored between the first HBA and the second HBA.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the primary storage device includes a host bus adapter (HBA) and the latency is monitored between the HBA and the storage device.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the server is in communication with a switch in the SAN that is programmed to receive responses from write requests and the responses received at the switch are used by the server to perform the monitoring.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the switch is a fiber connection director switch.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the detecting that the round trip latency has decreased or increased is based on an average of the round trip latency over a period of time.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the setting the replication mode comprises the server issuing a command to the primary storage device instructing the primary storage device to change the replication mode.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the setting the replication mode further comprises the server issuing a command to the secondary storage device instructing the secondary storage device to change the replication mode.
17. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform operations comprising: monitoring, by a server, a round trip latency between a primary storage device and a secondary storage device in a SAN, the secondary storage device replicating the primary storage device in a replication mode selected from the group consisting of an asynchronous replication mode and a synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the asynchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has decreased to a value below a synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the synchronous replication mode; based on the replication mode being the synchronous replication mode and on detecting that the round trip latency has increased to a value above the synchronous latency threshold value, setting the replication mode to the asynchronous replication mode; and repeating the monitoring.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the primary storage device includes a first host bus adapter (HBA) and the secondary storage device includes a second HBA, and the latency is monitored between the first HBA and the second HBA.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the server is in communication with a switch in the SAN that is programmed to receive responses from write requests and the responses received at the switch are used by the server to perform the monitoring.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the detecting that the round trip latency has decreased or increased is based on an average of the round trip latency over a period of time.
</claims>
</document>
