<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06F9/455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACRONIS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELOUSSOV, SERGUEI
ENAKIEV, ANTON
PROTASOV, STANISLAV
SERGEEV, ALEXEY
STROGOV, VLADIMIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF SELECTIVELY RESTORING A COMPUTER SYSTEM TO AN OPERATIONAL STATE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems and method for selectively restoring a computer system to an operational state. In an exemplary aspect, the method may create a backup image of the computer system comprising a set of data blocks and may store the backup image of the computer system in an archive storage database. The method may determine a subset of the data blocks of the backup image that are required to keep the computer system operational. In response to determining that the computer system should be restored, the method may restore the subset of the data blocks such that the computer system is operational during startup, and may restore a remaining set of the data blocks from the backup image after the startup of the computer system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selectively restoring a computer system to an operational state, comprising: creating a backup image of the computer system comprising a set of data blocks; storing the backup image of the computer system in an archive storage database; determining a subset of the data blocks of the backup image that are required to keep the computer system operational; in response to determining that the computer system should be restored: restoring the subset of the data blocks such that the computer system is operational during startup; and restoring a remaining set of the data blocks from the backup image after the startup of the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the subset comprises: creating and starting a virtual machine based on the backup image; monitoring data blocks accessed from the backup image during startup of the virtual machine; identifying the monitored data blocks in the subset; and placing the monitored data blocks into a persistent data cache.
3. The method of claim 2, monitoring the data blocks using a filter driver.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the monitored data blocks are requested, by a virtual disk of the virtual machine, from the backup image.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the subset comprises: detecting that the computer system has begun an initial startup; monitoring data blocks read from a disk of the computer system during the initial startup; and identifying the monitored data blocks in the subset.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the backup image is stored in a first type of storage of the computer system, further comprising: placing the monitored data blocks into a second type of storage.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first type of storage is cold storage and the second type of storage is hot storage, and wherein data read/write speeds of the second type of storage are faster than data read/write speeds of the first type of storage.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the subset further comprises: assessing a criticality of data blocks and events occurring on an initial startup of the computer system; creating a set of rules based on the assessed criticality; applying the set of rules to the data blocks to divide the data blocks into the subset and a remaining set.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: arranging the data blocks in an order in which the data blocks are to be read during restoration; and performing the restoring of the data blocks based on the arranging.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the backup image should be restored is based on detecting at least one of: (1) a malware attack on the computer system, (2) a disaster recovery request, and (3) an event causing the computer system to crash.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer system is deemed operational when a plurality of pre-identified applications and critical data associated with the plurality of pre-identified applications is functional and accessible on the computer system.
12. A system of selectively restoring a computer system to an operational state, comprising: a hardware processor configured to: create a backup image of the computer system comprising a set of data blocks; store the backup image of the computer system in an archive storage database; determine a subset of the data blocks of the backup image that are required to keep the computer system operational; in response to determining that the computer system should be restored: restore the subset of the data blocks such that the computer system is operational during startup; and restore a remaining set of the data blocks from the backup image after the startup of the computer system.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the hardware processor is configured to determine the subset by: creating and starting a virtual machine based on the backup image; monitoring data blocks accessed from the backup image during startup of the virtual machine; identifying the monitored data blocks in the subset; and placing the monitored data blocks into a persistent data cache.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the hardware processor is configured to monitor the data blocks using a filter driver.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the monitored data blocks are requested, by a virtual disk of the virtual machine, from the backup image.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the hardware processor is configured to determine the subset by: detecting that the computer system has begun an initial startup; monitoring data blocks read from a disk of the computer system during the initial startup; and identifying the monitored data blocks in the subset.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the backup image is stored in a first type of storage of the computer system, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to: place the monitored data blocks into a second type of storage.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the first type of storage is cold storage and the second type of storage is hot storage, and wherein data read/write speeds of the second type of storage are faster than data read/write speeds of the first type of storage.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to determine the subset by: assessing a criticality of data blocks and events occurring on an initial startup of the computer system; creating a set of rules based on the assessed criticality; applying the set of rules to the data blocks to divide the data blocks into the subset and a remaining set.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing thereon computer executable instructions for selectively restoring a computer system to an operational state, including instructions for: creating a backup image of the computer system comprising a set of data blocks; storing the backup image of the computer system in an archive storage database; determining a subset of the data blocks of the backup image that are required to keep the computer system operational; in response to determining that the computer system should be restored: restoring the subset of the data blocks such that the computer system is operational during startup; and restoring a remaining set of the data blocks from the backup image after the startup of the computer system.
</claims>
</document>
