<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042,G05B19/416
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOURASSA, COREY
TALLMAN, JAMES ALBERT
RATHAY, NICHOLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71404708
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR FLUID FLOW CONTROL DESIGN
</title>

<abstract>
According to some embodiments, an operating environment measurement of an industrial asset may be received from at least one sensor. A high-fidelity physics-based model may represent operational performance of the industrial asset and the performance's dependency on the operating environment measurement. A surrogate model creation engine may automatically create a surrogate model of the industrial asset based on the operating environment measurement and results from the high-fidelity physics-based model. An optimization platform may receive the surrogate model and use the surrogate model along with an optimization algorithm to generate a set of optimized fluid flow control system parameters for the industrial asset. In this way, a fluid flow control system may be designed to improve the performance of the industrial asset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system associated with a fluid flow control system for an industrial asset, comprising: at least one sensor associated with an operating environment measurement of the industrial asset; a high-fidelity physics-based model that represents operational performance of the industrial asset and the performance's dependency on the operating environment measurement; a surrogate model creation engine, coupled to the operating environment measurement and results from the high-fidelity physics-based model, to automatically create a surrogate model of the industrial asset; and an optimization platform to receive the surrogate model and to use the surrogate model along with an optimization algorithm to generate a set of optimized fluid flow control system parameters for the industrial asset.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluid flow control system is associated with at least one of: (i) a subsonic flow environment, (ii) a supersonic flow environment, (iii) a hypersonic flow environment, (iv) a gaseous flow environment, (v) a liquid flow environment, and (vi) a two-phase flow environment.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluid flow control system comprises at least one of: (i) passive flow control components, and (ii) an active flow control actuator array.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the optimized fluid flow control system parameters are associated with at least one of: (i) physical locations of components of the fluid flow control system, (ii) an orientation of components of the fluid flow control system, (iii) an operational setting of at least one active fluid flow control component, and (iv) a design type of a fluid flow control component.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the surrogate model creation engine creates the surrogate model using at least one of: (i) a machine learning process, (ii) an artificial intelligence process, (iii) a data regression process, and (iv) a closed-loop control process.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: at least one sensor associated with an operational performance measurement of the industrial asset.
7. The system of claim 6, further comprising: installing the fluid flow control system on the industrial asset; and measuring future performance of the industrial asset via the at least one sensor associated with the operational performance measurement.
8. The system of claim 7, further comprising: using the surrogate model to create optimized fluid flow control system parameters for similar industrial assets.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the measured future performance is used by the surrogate model creation engine to update the surrogate model.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein measured future performance from a plurality of industrial assets is used by the surrogate model creation engine to update the surrogate model.
11. The system of claim 7, further comprising: a repository data store to contain the measured future performance of the industrial asset.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the industrial asset is a wind turbine and the operating environment measurement is associated with at least one of: (i) wind speed, (ii) wind direction, (iii) wind turbulence, (iv) temperature, (v) a proximity to other wind turbines, and (vi) ground topology data.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the execution of the high-fidelity physics-based model and the surrogate model creation engine are associated with at least one of: (i) a high-performance computing center, and (ii) a cloud-based computing environment.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the high-performance physics-based model is associated with a workflow including a plurality of high-fidelity physics-based models.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the workflow is associated with at least one of: (i) a component level model, (ii) a module level model, (iii) a system level module, (iv) data that varies in space, (v) data that varies in time, (vi) input parameters, and (vii) post-processing.
16. A computer-implemented method associated with a fluid flow control system for an industrial asset, comprising: receiving, from at least one sensor, an operating environment measurement of the industrial asset; receiving results of a high-fidelity physics-based model that represents operational performance of the industrial asset and the performance's dependency on the operating environment measurement; automatically creating, by a surrogate model creation engine, a surrogate model of the industrial asset based on the operating environment measurement and the results; receiving, at an optimization platform, the surrogate model; and using the surrogate model along with an optimization algorithm to generate a set of optimized fluid flow control system parameters for the industrial asset.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the fluid flow control system is associated with at least one of: (i) a subsonic flow environment, (ii) a supersonic flow environment, (iii) a hypersonic flow environment, (iv) a gaseous flow environment, (v) a liquid flow environment, and (vi) a two-phase flow environment.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the fluid flow control system comprises at least one of: (i) passive flow control components, and (ii) an active flow control actuator array.
19. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a computer processor, cause the computer processor to perform a method associated with a fluid flow control system for an industrial asset, the method comprising: receiving, from at least one sensor, an operating environment measurement of the industrial asset; receiving results of a high-fidelity physics-based model that represents operational performance of the industrial asset and the performance's dependency on the operating environment measurement; automatically creating, by a surrogate model creation engine, a surrogate model of the industrial asset based on the operating environment measurement and the results; receiving, at an optimization platform, the surrogate model; and using the surrogate model along with an optimization algorithm to generate a set of optimized fluid flow control system parameters for the industrial asset.
20. The medium of claim 19, wherein the surrogate model creation engine creates the surrogate model using at least one of: (i) a machine learning process, (ii) an artificial intelligence process, (iii) a data regression process, and (iv) a closed-loop control process.
</claims>
</document>
