<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TANAKA TAKUYA
KASAHARA, RYOSUKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
TANAKA TAKUYA
KASAHARA, RYOSUKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458622
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING DEVICE AND LEARNING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
According to one aspect of the present invention, a learning device is configured to perform learning of decision trees by gradient boosting. The learning device includes an initializer and a learning unit. The initializer is configured to perform initialization processing on an address memory that stores an address in a data memory of learning data used for learning of a node in a decision tree. The learning unit is configured to perform learning of the decision tree by using the learning data stored in the data memory. The initializer is configured to perform, after a certain decision tree is learned by the learning unit, the initialization processing for a next decision tree of the certain decision tree in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning device configured to perform learning of decision trees by gradient boosting, the learning device comprising: an initializer configured to perform initialization processing on an address memory that stores an address in a data memory of learning data used for learning of a node in a decision tree; and a learning unit configured to perform learning of the decision tree by using the learning data stored in the data memory, wherein the initializer is configured to perform, after a certain decision tree is learned by the learning unit, the initialization processing for a next decision tree of the certain decision tree in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
2. The learning device according to claim 1, further comprising: a gradient information updater configured to perform update processing of gradient information for each piece of the learning data for learning of a next decision tree from a decision tree learned by the learning unit, wherein the initializer is configure to, at a time when the update processing for learning the next decision tree from the certain decision tree is performed by the gradient information updater, perform the initialization processing for the next decision tree.
3. The learning device according to claim 2, wherein the learning unit is configured to, after the update processing for learning of the next decision tree from the certain decision tree is performed by the gradient information updater, perform learning of the next decision tree in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
4. The learning device according to claim 3, further comprising: a performance calculator configured to, after the update processing for a decision tree learned by the learning unit ends, calculate an index value indicating recognition performance of the decision tree, wherein the learning unit is configured to, at a time when an index value indicating recognition performance of the certain decision tree is calculated by the performance calculator, perform learning of the next decision tree of the certain decision tree.
5. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the address memory includes a plurality of data memories, the data memory includes a plurality of data memories, the initializer is configure to perform the initialization processing on each of the plurality of address memories storing an addresses of the learning data in corresponding one of the plurality of data memories, the learning data being to be used for learning of the node of the decision tree and divided into pieces each to be stored in corresponding one of the plurality of data memories, the learning unit includes a plurality of learning units each configured to learn the decision tree using the learning data stored in corresponding one of the plurality of data memories, and cause corresponding one of a plurality of model memories to store data of the learned decision tree, and the initializer is configured to, after the certain decision tree is learned by each of the plurality of learning units, perform the initialization processing on corresponding one of the plurality of address memories for the next decision tree of the certain decision tree in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
6. The learning device according to claim 5, further comprising: a plurality of gradient information updaters configured to each perform update processing of gradient information for corresponding piece of the learning data stored in corresponding one of the plurality of data memories for learning of a next decision tree from a decision tree learned by corresponding one of the plurality of learning units, wherein the initializer is configured to, at a time when the update processing for learning of the next decision tree from the certain decision tree is performed by each of the plurality of gradient information updaters, perform the initialization processing for corresponding one of the plurality of address memories for the next decision tree.
7. The learning device according to claim 6, wherein the plurality of learning units are each configure to, after the update processing for learning of the next decision tree from the certain decision tree is performed by corresponding one of the plurality of gradient information updaters, perform learning of the next decision tree in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
8. The learning device according to claim 7, further comprising: a plurality of performance calculators each configured to, after the update processing for a decision tree learned by corresponding one of the plurality of learning units, calculate an index value indicating recognition performance of the decision tree for corresponding one of the plurality of data memories, wherein the plurality of learning units are each configured to, at a time when an index value indicating recognition performance of the certain decision tree is calculated by corresponding one of the plurality of performance calculators, perform learning of the next decision tree of the certain decision tree.
9. The learning device according to claim 4, wherein the performance calculator is configured to calculate an Area Under the Curve (AUC) as the index value.
10. A learning method for a learning device configured to perform learning of decision trees by gradient boosting, the method comprising: initializing an address memory storing an address in a data memory of learning data used for learning of a node in a decision tree; and learning the decision tree using the learning data stored in the data memory, wherein, at the initializing, after a certain decision tree is learned at the learning, a next decision tree of the certain decision tree is initialized in parallel with processing for the certain decision tree.
</claims>
</document>
