<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/06,G16H40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXPERIAN HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SERIE, ELIZABETH DONATO
SAFFARI, ALI
SIMMONS, KRISTEN
KALAPODIS, SPIRO E.
PILKINGTON, EDMOND CHASE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRE-SERVICE CLIENT NAVIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects include a pre-service optimization system that provides timely and accurate estimate information to clients. Responsive to an indication of an order for a service, the system may generate an estimate of service costs, including the client responsibility amount, generate an elasticity estimate corresponding to the estimate including an indication of how likely the estimate is to change, a range within which the estimate is likely to change, and information about trigger points that affect the possible variability of the estimate. The system may push a notification to the client that includes a link to access the estimate and elasticity estimate. The notification may be delivered to the client in real time or near-real time as the estimate is generated. The system may further provide a user interface via which the client can access the estimate and elasticity estimate, and to access scheduling, payment, and financial assistance functionalities.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for providing pre-service client navigation, comprising: at least one processing device; and at least one computer readable data storage device storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processing device, cause the system to: receive, by a message processor, a message from a service provider, wherein the message includes data specifying at least one upcoming service for a client; obtain, by an eligibility verifier, eligibility benefits data for the client from a payer system corresponding to the client; generate, by an estimator, an estimate of a client responsibility amount for the least one upcoming service by using the eligibility benefits data, the message data, and service information corresponding to the service provider; generate, by the estimator, an elasticity estimate corresponding to the estimate, wherein the elasticity estimate calculates a probability that the estimate will change and a range within which the estimate is likely to change; store the estimate and the elasticity estimate in a data store; transmit, by a client navigation system, a notification to a communication device of the client, wherein the notification includes a link to access the estimate and the elasticity estimate; receive an indication of a selection to access the client navigation system; and generate a user interface including the estimate and the elasticity estimate for navigating the client through a pre-service workflow prior to the client receiving the at least one upcoming service.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the message from the service provider comprises a message sent to the system responsive to: the at least one upcoming service being ordered by the service provider; or the at least one upcoming service being scheduled by the service provider.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein in generating the elasticity estimate, the estimator is configured to determine the elasticity estimate based at least in part on an identification of one or more trigger points associated with the estimate, wherein the one or more trigger points are associated with factors that have been learned, by a machine learning algorithm, to affect previously-generated estimates.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein in learning the one or more trigger points, the estimator is configured to identify, for a previously-generated estimate, factors that: affect the difference between a service ordered or scheduled for an associated client and a service that is actually provided to the associated client; and affect the difference between an estimated client responsibility amount and a final cost of the service that is actually billed to the client.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the previously-generated estimate is included in historical data used by machine learning algorithm to learn the one or more trigger points.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the notification is embodied as at least one of: a text message that can be received by a text messaging application operating on the client's communication device and displayed or played audibly to the client; and a push notification that can be received by an application operating on the client's communication device or system and displayed or played audibly to the client.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is further configured to: receive updated information corresponding to the at least one service or to the eligibility benefits data; determine a second estimate based on the updated information; determine a second elasticity estimate associated with the second estimate; and transmit a second notification to the client communication device, wherein the second notification includes a link to access the second estimate and the second change estimate.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein in generating the user interface, the system is configured to provide a unified portal that interfaces one or more workflow systems, wherein the one or more workflow systems include one or more of: a scheduling system; a payment system; and a financial assistance screening system.
9. A method for providing pre-service client navigation, comprising: using a message processor for receiving a message from a service provider, wherein the message includes data specifying at least one upcoming service for a client; using an eligibility verifier for obtaining eligibility benefits data for the client from a payer system corresponding to the client; using an estimator for: generating an estimate of a client responsibility amount for the least one upcoming service by using the eligibility benefits data, the message data, and service information corresponding to the service provider; generating an elasticity estimate corresponding to the estimate, wherein the elasticity estimate calculates a probability that the estimate will change and a range within which the estimate is likely to change; and storing the estimate and the elasticity estimate in a data store; and using a client navigation system for: transmitting a notification to a communication device of the client, wherein the notification includes a link to access the estimate and the elasticity estimate; receiving an indication of a selection to access the client navigation system; and generating a user interface including the estimate and the elasticity estimate for navigating the client through a pre-service workflow prior to the client receiving the at least one upcoming service.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein receiving the message from the service provider comprises receiving the message responsive to the at least one upcoming service being ordered or scheduled for the client by the service provider.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the elasticity estimate comprises: identifying one or more trigger points associated with the estimate, wherein the one or more trigger points are associated with factors that have been learned, by a machine learning algorithm, to affect previously-generated estimates; calculating the probability that the estimate will change based on the one or more identified trigger points; and calculating the range within which the estimate is likely to change based on the one or more identified trigger points.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein learning the one or more trigger points comprises analyzing historical data including previously-generated estimates for identifying one or more factors that: affect the difference between a service corresponding to a previously-generated estimate of the previously-generated estimates for an associated client and a service that is actually provided to the associated client; and affect the difference between an estimated client responsibility amount corresponding to the previously-generated estimate and a final cost of the service that is actually billed to the client.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein generating a user interface including the estimate and the elasticity estimate comprises displaying one or more of: an indication of the probability that the estimate will change; an indication of the range within which the estimate is likely to change; and information corresponding to the one or more trigger points.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein transmitting a notification to a communication device of the client comprises at least one of: transmitting a text message that can be received by a text messaging application operating on the client's communication device and displayed or played audibly to the client; and transmitting a push notification that can be received by an application operating on the client's communication device or system and displayed or played audibly to the client.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving updated information corresponding to the at least one service or to the eligibility benefits data; determining a second estimate based on the updated information; determining a second elasticity estimate associated with the second estimate; and transmitting a second notification to the client communication device, wherein the second notification includes a link to access the second estimate and the second change estimate.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the user interface comprises including, in the user interface, one or more interfaces to one or more workflow systems, the one or more workflow systems including one or more of: a scheduling system; a payment system; and a financial assistance screening system.
17. A computer-readable storage device including computer readable instructions, which when executed by a processing unit are configured to: use a message processor to receive a message from a service provider, wherein the message includes data specifying at least one upcoming service for a client; use an eligibility verifier to obtain eligibility benefits data for the client from a payer system corresponding to the client; use an estimator to: generate an estimate of a client responsibility amount for the least one upcoming service by using the eligibility benefits data, the message data, and service information corresponding to the service provider; an elasticity estimate corresponding to the estimate, wherein the elasticity estimate calculates a probability that the estimate will change and a range within which the estimate is likely to change; and store the estimate and the elasticity estimate in a data store; and use a client navigation system to: transmit a notification to a communication device of the client, wherein the notification includes a link to access the estimate and the elasticity estimate; receive an indication of a selection to access the client navigation system; and generate a user interface including the estimate and the elasticity estimate for navigating the client through a pre-service workflow prior to the client receiving the at least one upcoming service.
18. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein in using the client navigation system to generate the user interface, the client navigation system is configured to include, in the user interface, one or more interfaces to one or more workflow systems, the one or more workflow systems including one or more of: a scheduling system; a payment system; and a financial assistance screening system.
19. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein: in using the estimator to generate the elasticity, estimate, the estimator is configured to determine the elasticity estimate based at least in part on an identification of one or more trigger points associated with the estimate, wherein the one or more trigger points are associated with factors that have been learned, by a machine learning algorithm, to affect previously-generated estimates; and in using the estimator to learn the one or more trigger points, the estimator is configured to identify, for a previously-generated estimate, factors that: affect the difference between a service ordered or scheduled for an associated client and a service that is actually provided to the associated client; and affect the difference between an estimated client responsibility amount and a final cost of the service that is actually billed to the client.
20. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the computer readable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit are further configured to: use the messaging system to receive updated information corresponding to the at least one service or to the eligibility benefits data; use the estimator to: determine a second estimate based on the updated information; and determine a second elasticity estimate associated with the second estimate; and use the client navigation system to transmit a second notification to the client communication device, wherein the second notification includes a link to access the second estimate and the second change estimate.
</claims>
</document>
