<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/01,G08G1/042,G08G1/052,G08G1/056,G08G1/065
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE PARKING GENIUS, INC, D/B/A PARKHUB
</assignee>

<inventors>
O'CALLAGHAN, SEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65720450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARKING SENSORS CAPABLE OF DETERMINING DIRECTION AND SPEED OF VEHICLE ENTERING OR LEAVING A PARKING LOT
</title>

<abstract>
A parking inventory management system includes a sensor apparatus with a plurality of magnetometers each configured to respectively generate a magnetic signatures of a vehicle as it drives across the sensor apparatus. A computing device is associated with the sensor apparatus and compares the magnetic signatures of the vehicle generated by each of the plurality of magnetometers to the magnetic signatures of the vehicle generated by each other magnetometer of the plurality thereof so as to determine a direction of the vehicle. A match between the magnetic signature of the vehicle as generated by at least two of the plurality of magnetometers indicates that the direction of travel of the vehicle is along a direction between those two of the plurality of magnetometers. A speed of the vehicle is derived as a function of a time difference between points of peak similarity between matching magnetic signatures of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a sensor apparatus comprising an array of magnetometers each configured to respectively generate magnetic signatures of a vehicle; a computing device associated with the sensor apparatus and configured to: compare the magnetic signatures of the vehicle generated by at least a first portion of the array of magnetometers to the magnetic signatures of the vehicle generated by at least a second portion of the array of magnetometers so as to determine a direction of travel of the vehicle.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein a match between magnetic signatures of the vehicle as generated by at least the first portion and the second portion indicates that the direction of travel of the vehicle is along a direction between those portions.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a network transceiver associated with the computing device and configured to send the direction of the vehicle to a cloud server.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the sensor apparatus is disposed at an entrance or exit to a parking lot, wherein the cloud server is further configured to increment a counter representing a number of cars in the parking lot as a function of the direction of travel of the vehicle being into the parking lot, and wherein the cloud server is further configured to decrement the counter as a function of the direction of travel of the vehicle being out of the parking lot.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a network transceiver associated with the computing device and configured to send the magnetic signatures of the vehicle to the computing device, and wherein the computing device is a cloud server.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to determine a time delay between magnetic signatures of the vehicle, with the direction of travel of the vehicle being in a direction from the first portion that produced the magnetic signature first in time to the second portion that-that produced the magnetic signature of the vehicle second in time.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the computing device is further configured to derive a speed of the vehicle as a function of a time difference between points of peak similarity between magnetic signatures of the vehicle.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the computing device is further configured to estimate a length of the vehicle as a product of the speed of the vehicle and a duration of the magnetic signatures of the vehicle.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the computing device is further configured to determine the magnetic signature to represent a false positive as a function of the estimated length of the vehicle being less than a threshold length.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the computing device is further configured to determine the vehicle to be a commercial vehicle as a function of the length of the vehicle being greater than an upper vehicle threshold length.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the computing device is further configured to determine the vehicle to be a passenger vehicle as a function of the length of the vehicle being at least a lower vehicle threshold length and not more than an upper vehicle threshold length.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the first portion comprises at least one magnetometer and wherein the second portion comprises at least one magnetometer.
13. A method of parking lot inventory management, the method comprising: disposing at least one sensor apparatus, each comprising a plurality of magnetometers, at each entry or exit lane to the parking lot; for each sensor apparatus, comparing magnetic signatures of a vehicle driving over that sensor apparatus generated by at least a first portion of the plurality of magnetometers of that sensor apparatus to the magnetic signatures of the vehicle generated by at least a second portion of the plurality of magnetometers of that sensor apparatus so as to determine a direction of travel of the vehicle; wherein a match between magnetic signatures of the vehicle as generated by the first portion and the second portion indicates that the direction of travel of the vehicle is along a direction between the first and second portions; incrementing a count of vehicles in the parking lot as a function of the direction of travel of the vehicle indicating that the vehicle is entering the parking lot; and decrementing a count of vehicles in the parking lot as a function of the direction of travel of the vehicle indicating that the vehicle is leaving the parking lot.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein an entry or exit lane of the parking lot is a defined entry or exit lane and a single sensor apparatus is disposed thereat.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining a speed of the vehicle as a function of a time delay between points of peak similarity of the magnetic signatures of the vehicle.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising estimating a length of the vehicle as a product of the speed of the vehicle and a duration of the magnetic signatures.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining the magnetic signatures of the vehicle to represent a false positive as a function of the estimated length of the vehicle being less than a threshold length.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining the vehicle to be a commercial vehicle as a function of the length of the vehicle being greater than an upper vehicle threshold length, and determining the vehicle to be a passenger vehicle as a function of the length of the vehicle being at least a lower vehicle threshold length and not more than the upper vehicle threshold length.
19. A system comprising: a sensor apparatus comprising a plurality of sensors each configured to respectively generate signatures of a vehicle as the vehicle passes the sensor apparatus; a computing device associated with the sensor apparatus and configured to: compare the signatures of the vehicle generated by each of a first portion of the plurality of sensors to the signatures of the vehicle generated by each of a second portion of the plurality of sensors so as to determine a direction of travel of the vehicle.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein a match between signature of the vehicle as generated by at least the first portion and the second portion indicates that the direction of travel of the vehicle is between the first portion and the second portion.
</claims>
</document>
