<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPPA, CONOR
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAPPA, CONOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731444
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Generating Networking Referrals
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and associated methods relate to generating a user referral to a potential networking contact, based on referral parameters ranked as a function of the user's networking goal, in response to user networking activity, and at a location and time based on the user networking activity. In an illustrative example, the referral parameters may be a desired skill set. The user's networking goal may be, for example, connecting with potential contacts having the desired skill set, permitting the user and contact to network. In some examples, the generated referral may include a restaurant coupon configured to encourage a meetup in real life. Some embodiments may rank potential contacts based on their importance to achieving the user's networking goal. Various examples may advantageously generate referrals to achieve the user's networking goal in response to user networking activity and potential networking contact availability and interest at a mutually beneficial location and time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-system implemented method to generate prospective networking referrals and arrange meetings between the referrals, the method comprising: extracting contact information of prospective networking referrals from a database, wherein the extraction is based, at least in part, on whether the referrals work in a suggested or selected industry; accessing a calendar program that prompts each prospective networking referral to select available times for a networking meetup; displaying the prospective networking referrals along with their available meeting times; sending a meetup request to one or more of the prospective networking referrals; scheduling a meetup with a prospective networking referral that accepts the meetup request, wherein the meetup location is an agreed-upon location selected from a list of acceptable locations, wherein the list of acceptable locations comprise locations selected from among a list of suggested locations located between the meeting parties; transmitting the meetup location with directions to the meetup location to mobile electronic devices of each meeting party; providing a promotional coupon for use at the meeting location when the meeting parties are within a set proximity of each other; transmitting the promotional coupon to each of the meeting parties; and, transmitting a post-meeting questionnaire to each of the meeting parties when they are beyond a set distance from each other.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises determining the user's networking goal based on profile data provided by the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the user has a profile including a networking goal selected from the group consisting of hiring, seeking employment, or general networking.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user has a profile including a networking goal, and wherein the method further comprises determining the user's preferred time period to achieve the user's networking goal.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the user has a networking goal, and wherein the user's networking goal further comprises meeting each of a list of desired potential networking contacts, wherein the list of desired potential networking contacts is provided by the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting contact information of prospective networking referrals further comprises the prospective networking referrals extracted based on ranking the prospective referrals as a function of a list of desired potential networking contacts, and wherein prospective referrals the user has not met are ranked higher in preference to receive a networking request before lower-ranked prospective referrals.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting contact information of prospective networking referrals further comprises the prospective networking referrals extracted based on ranking the prospective referrals as a function of skill set.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting contact information of prospective networking referrals further comprises the prospective networking referrals extracted based on ranking the prospective referrals as a function of skill level determined based on a skill test score.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting contact information of prospective networking referrals further comprises running an Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML) based matchmaking algorithm to identify prospective networking referrals.
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more processors; memory, operably connected to the one or more processors; and, a program module, wherein the program module is stored in the memory and, during operation of the apparatus, the program module is executed by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform operations to generate prospective networking referrals and arrange meetings between the referrals, the operations performed by the one or more processors comprising: extract contact information of prospective networking referrals from a database, wherein the extraction is based, at least in part, on whether the referrals work in a suggested or selected industry; determining the user's networking goal based on profile data provided by the user; running an Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML) based matchmaking algorithm to identify prospective networking referrals selected as a function of the user's networking goal; access a calendar program that prompts each identified prospective networking referral to select available times for a networking meetup; display the prospective networking referrals along with their available meeting times; prompt the user to request a meetup with one or more prospective networking referral; schedule a meetup with a prospective networking referral that accepts the meetup request, wherein the meetup location is an agreed-upon location selected from a list of acceptable locations, wherein the list of acceptable locations comprise locations selected from among a list of suggested locations identified by the program module based on a condition that they are located between the meeting parties; transmit the meetup location with directions to the meetup location to mobile electronic devices of each meeting party; provide a promotional coupon for use at the meeting location when the meeting parties are within a set proximity of each other; transmit the promotional coupon to each of the meeting parties; and, transmit a post-meeting questionnaire to each of the meeting parties when they are beyond a set distance from each other.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the user's networking goal further comprises meeting each of a list of desired potential networking contacts.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML) based matchmaking algorithm further comprises matching selected prospective networking referrals based on skill set and skill level.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the operations performed by the one or more processors further comprise: determining if the promotional coupon was not redeemed during the scheduled meeting; and, in response to a determination the promotional coupon was not redeemed, adding the promotional coupon value to a reward points account accessible by the promotional coupon recipient.
14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the operations performed by the one or more processors further comprise excluding from the selected prospective networking referrals a prospective referral the user indicated they do not want to network with.
15. An apparatus, comprising: one or more processors; memory, operably connected to the one or more processors; and, a program module, wherein the program module is stored in the memory and, during operation of the apparatus, the program module is executed by the one or more processors to cause the one or more processors to perform operations to generate prospective networking referrals and arrange meetings between the referrals, the operations performed by the one or more processors comprising: extract contact information of prospective networking referrals from a database, wherein the extraction is based, at least in part, on whether the referrals work in a suggested or selected industry; determining the user's networking goal based on profile data provided by the user; running an Artificial Intelligence (AI)/Machine Learning (ML) based matchmaking algorithm to identify prospective networking referrals selected based on the prospective referrals ranked as a function of the user's networking goal; access a calendar program that prompts each identified prospective networking referral to select available times for a networking meetup; display the prospective networking referrals along with their available meeting times; prompt the user to request a meetup with one or more prospective networking referral; schedule a meetup with a prospective networking referral that accepts the meetup request, wherein the meetup location is an agreed-upon location selected from a list of acceptable locations, wherein the list of acceptable locations comprise locations selected from among a list of suggested locations identified by the program module based on a condition that they are located between the meeting parties; transmit the meetup location with directions to the meetup location to mobile electronic devices of each meeting party; provide a promotional coupon for use at the meeting location when the meeting parties are within a set proximity of each other; transmit the promotional coupon to each of the meeting parties; transmit a post-meeting questionnaire to each of the meeting parties when they are beyond a set distance from each other; determine if the promotional coupon was not redeemed during the scheduled meeting; and, in response to a determination the promotional coupon was not redeemed, adding the promotional coupon value to a reward points account accessible by the promotional coupon recipient.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the list of suggested locations identified by the program module further comprise a location selected as a function of user venue preference.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the operations performed by the one or more processors further comprise implementation of an application mode selected from the group consisting of offline, online seeking networking opportunities, and taking meetings.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the operations performed by the one or more processors further comprise prospective networking referrals ranked as a function of skill test score normalized to skill test scores collected from a geographic region.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the operations performed by the one or more processors further comprise hiding employer company names from view in a user's profile.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the promotional coupon further comprises an offer to donate a portion of the promotional coupon value to charity.
</claims>
</document>
