<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/561,G01R33/565,G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHARMA, ANUJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515743
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DEEP LEARNING TO MITIGATE ARTIFACTS ARISING IN SIMULTANEOUS MULTI SLICE (SMS) MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING (MRI)
</title>

<abstract>
A deep learning (DL) network is proposed to mitigate artifacts in simultaneous multi-slice (SMS) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data. For example, unaliased images generated from SMS aliased images can exhibit leakage artifacts due to inaccuracies in the receive-coil sensitives used during sensitivity encoding (SENSE) processing. To mitigate leakage artifacts, the DL network learns to correct the receive-coil sensitives before SENSE processing, and/or learns to detect and subtract the artifacts from the unaliased images after SENSE processing. The DL network can also be trained to denoise the unaliased images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: processing circuitry configured to obtain simultaneous multi-slice (SMS) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data representing radio frequency (RF) signals that are received at a plurality of receive coils, obtain receive-coil (Rx) sensitivities corresponding to the plurality of receive coils, perform a sensitivity encoding (SENSE) operation based on the SMS-MRI data and the Rx sensitives to generate unaliased SMS images from aliased SMS images of the SMS-MRI data, and obtain a neural network that is trained such that, when the neural network is used together with the SENSE operation to generate the unaliased SMS images, artifacts in the unaliased SMS images are mitigated compared to unaliased SMS images that would be generated using a SENSE operation without the neural network, wherein, when performing the SENSE operation, an input including the Rx sensitivities is applied to the neural network, and an output from the neural network is used to generate the unaliased SMS images.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to perform the SENSE operation on the aliased SMS images by applying the Rx sensitivities to the neural network as the input to the neural network, and generating corrected Rx sensitivities as the output from the neural network, and applying the corrected Rx sensitivities to the SENSE operation as an input to the SENSE operation together with the unaliased SMS images as another input to the SENSE operation, and generating unaliased SMS images as the output from the SENSE operation.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the performing the SENSE operation together with the neural network reduces the artifacts, wherein the artifacts are leakage artifacts in which a portion of pixels values from one slice leaks into pixel values of an unaliased SMS images of another slice of the SMS-MRI data.
4. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to train the neural network using a modified backpropagation method in which a gradient of a loss function is calculated through the SENSE operation.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the neural network includes a first part that is a convolutional neural network (CNN) and second part that is another neural network, and the processing circuitry is further configured to perform the SENSE operation on the aliased SMS images by applying the Rx sensitivities to the CNN as an input to the CNN, and generating corrected Rx sensitivities as an output from the CNN, and applying the aliased SMS images to the another neural network as an input to the another neural network, the another neural network using the corrected Rx sensitivities to perform the SENSE operation to the aliased SMS images and generating the unaliased SMS images as an output from the another neural network.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to train the neural network using a backpropagation method.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to train the neural network using training data and a loss function that represents, as an error value, a disagreement between pairs of the training data, each pair of the training data including input data and target data, the target data being images in which an artifact is mitigated, the input data being training unaliased SMS images in which the artifact is not mitigated or being training aliased SMS images which when applied to the SENSE operation without the neural network produce the training unaliased SMS images in which the artifact is not mitigated, wherein the neural network is trained by performing, for each of the pairs, steps of applying the neural network to input data of a pair to generate network processed data, calculating, using the loss function, the error value between the network processed data and the target data of the pair, updating, based on the calculated error value, weighting coefficients of the neural network, and repeating the steps of applying, calculating, and updating using respective pairs of the training data until one or more stopping criteria are satisfied.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to obtain another neural network that receives as an input first unaliased SMS images and generates as an out second unaliased SMS images, wherein the another neural network is trained to reduce artifacts in the second unaliased SMS images relative to the artifacts in the first unaliased SMS images, and apply the unaliased SMS images, which as generated by performing the SENSE operation, to the another neural network to generate corrected unaliased SMS images, which have reduced artifacts compared to the unaliased SMS images.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to train the another neural network using training data and a loss function that represents, as an error value, a disagreement between pairs of the training data, each pair of the training data including input data and target data, the target data being artifact-mitigated unaliased SMS images in which an artifact is mitigated, the input data being artifact-exhibiting unaliased SMS images in which the artifact is not mitigated, wherein the another neural network is trained by performing, for each of the pairs, steps of applying the another neural network to input data of a pair to generate network processed data, calculating, using the loss function, the error value between the network processed data and the target data of the pair, updating, based on the calculated error value, weighting coefficients of the another neural network, and repeating the steps of applying, calculating, and updating using respective pairs of the training data until one or more stopping criteria are satisfied.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to train the neural network, wherein the target data is denoised relative to the input data, and applying the unaliased SMS images to the neural network generates the corrected unaliased SMS images, wherein the corrected unaliased SMS images are denoised relative to the unaliased SMS images.
11. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: the plurality of receive coils, a first magnet configured to generate a uniform magnetic field, gradient magnets configured to generate gradient magnetic fields, and an RF transmitter configured to transmit a SMS-MRI pulse sequence.
12. A method, comprising: obtaining simultaneous multi-slice (SMS) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data representing radio frequency (RF) signals that are received at a plurality of receive coils, obtaining receive-coil (Rx) sensitivities corresponding to the plurality of receive coils, performing a sensitivity encoding (SENSE) operation based on the SMS-MRI data and the Rx sensitives to generate unaliased SMS images from aliased SMS images of the SMS-MRI data, and obtaining a neural network that is trained such that, when the neural network is used together with the SENSE operation to generate the unaliased SMS images, artifacts in the unaliased SMS images are mitigated compared to unaliased SMS images that would be generated using a SENSE operation without the neural network, wherein, when performing the SENSE operation, an input including the Rx sensitivities is applied to the neural network, and an output from the neural network is used to generate the unaliased SMS images.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the performing the SENSE operation further includes applying the Rx sensitivities to the neural network as the input to the neural network, and generating corrected Rx sensitivities as the output from the neural network, applying the corrected Rx sensitivities to the SENSE operation as an input to the SENSE operation together with the unaliased SMS images as another input to the SENSE operation, and generating unaliased SMS images as the output from the SENSE operation.
14. The method according to claim 12, wherein the performing the SENSE operation together with the neural network reduces the artifacts, wherein the artifacts are leakage artifacts in which a portion of pixels values from one slice leaks into pixel values of an unaliased SMS images of another slice of the SMS-MRI data.
15. The method according to claim 13, further comprising training the neural network using a modified backpropagation method in which a gradient of a loss function is calculated through the SENSE operation.
16. The method according to claim 12, wherein the neural network includes a first part that is a convolutional neural network (CNN) and second part that is another neural network, and the performing the SENSE operation further includes applying the Rx sensitivities to the CNN as an input to the CNN, and generating corrected Rx sensitivities as an output from the CNN, and applying the aliased SMS images to the another neural network as an input to the another neural network, the another neural network using the corrected Rx sensitivities to perform the SENSE operation to the aliased SMS images and generating the unaliased SMS images as an output from the another neural network.
17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising training the neural network using a backpropagation method.
18. The method according to claim 12, further comprising training the neural network using training data and a loss function that represents, as an error value, a disagreement between pairs of the training data, each pair of the training data including input data and target data, the target data being images in which an artifact is mitigated, the input data being training unaliased SMS images in which the artifact is not mitigated or being training aliased SMS images which when applied to the SENSE operation without the neural network produce the training unaliased SMS images in which the artifact is not mitigated, wherein the neural network is trained by performing, for each of the pairs, steps of applying the neural network to input data of a pair to generate network processed data, calculating, using the loss function, the error value between the network processed data and the target data of the pair, updating, based on the calculated error value, weighting coefficients of the neural network, and repeating the steps of applying, calculating, and updating using respective pairs of the training data until one or more stopping criteria are satisfied.
19. The method according to claim 12, further comprising obtaining another neural network that receives as an input first unaliased SMS images and generates as an output second unaliased SMS images, wherein the another neural network is trained to reduce artifacts in the second unaliased SMS images relative to the artifacts in the first unaliased SMS images, and applying the unaliased SMS images, which as generated by performing the SENSE operation, to the another neural network to generate corrected unaliased SMS images, which have reduced artifacts compared to the unaliased SMS images.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium including executable instructions, wherein the instructions, when executed by circuitry, cause the circuitry to perform the method according to claim 12.
</claims>
</document>
