<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G16H50/20,G16H70/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUNITOMI, MARK
ZUBAREV, DMITRY
Swaminathan, Sarathkrishna
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73651041
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MATRIX FACTORIZATION OF ANTIBIOGRAM METADATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method is described that utilizes non-negative matrix factorization to predict susceptibility of a microorganism to an antimicrobial drug. A sparse adjacency matrix is constructed from existing ground truth datasets that include antibiogram data and other data associated with microorganisms. The rows of the adjacency matrix correspond to biosamples, and the columns correspond to instances of metadata and drugs associated with one or more of the biosamples. The elements of the adjacency matrix are assigned non-zero numerical values or zero depending on whether a known association exists. The adjacency matrix is then factored using a selected number of latent factors, thereby producing a reconstruction matrix approximating the adjacency matrix. The values of the reconstruction matrix are used to predict antimicrobial susceptibility of a biosample ID to a drug when antibiogram data are lacking.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: providing an initial matrix comprising rows corresponding to microorganisms and columns corresponding to metadata associated with one or more of the microorganisms, the metadata including antibiogram data, wherein an element of the initial matrix linking a microorganism to an antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating no antibiogram data exist for the microorganism with respect to the antibiotic drug; factoring the initial matrix using a matrix factorization algorithm, thereby forming a first factor matrix and a second factor matrix; and multiplying the first factor matrix by the second factor matrix, thereby forming a reconstruction matrix, wherein an element of the reconstruction matrix linking the microorganism to the antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating the microorganism is resistant or susceptible to the antibiotic drug.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said factoring the initial matrix is performed using k number of latent factors, wherein k is a positive whole number greater than 1.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein k is a positive whole number between 1 and 1,000,000.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the initial matrix has m rows and n columns, m and n being positive integers greater than 1, the first factor matrix has m rows and k columns, and the second factor matrix has k rows and n columns.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the k number of latent factors are determined by an iterative process comprising i) choosing an initial number of latent factors k′, ii) factoring the initial matrix into a first factor matrix and a second factor matrix, iii) calculating a reconstruction matrix by multiplying the first factor matrix times the second factor matrix, iv) determining a reconstruction error between the initial matrix and the reconstruction matrix, and v) repeating i)-iv) until the reconstruction error is acceptable, wherein the initial number of latent factors is equal to k.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein each entry of the first factor matrix and the second factor matrix is zero or a positive number.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one column of the initial matrix is assigned a taxonomic level.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each unique antibiotic drug of the metadata is assigned a different column of the initial matrix.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one column of the initial matrix is assigned to an antibiotic drug used in an antibiogram.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the microorganisms of the initial matrix is a member of the group consisting of bacteria, fungi, viruses, protozoans, and parasites.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one column of the initial matrix is assigned to an isolation source of the microorganisms.
12. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable hardware storage device having a computer-readable program code stored therein, said program code configured to be executed by a processor of a computer system to implement a method comprising: providing an initial matrix comprising rows corresponding to microorganisms and columns corresponding to metadata associated with one or more of the microorganisms, the metadata including antibiogram data, wherein an element of the initial matrix linking a microorganism to an antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating no antibiogram data exist for the microorganism with respect to the antibiotic drug; factoring the initial matrix using a matrix factorization algorithm, thereby forming a first factor matrix and a second factor matrix; and multiplying the first factor matrix by the second factor matrix, thereby forming a reconstruction matrix, wherein an element of the reconstruction matrix linking the microorganism to the antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating the microorganism is resistant or susceptible to the antibiotic drug.
13. The computer product of claim 12, wherein the computer program product identifies differences between entries of the reconstruction matrix and corresponding entries of the initial matrix and provides a report of the identified differences to a user.
14. A system comprising one or more computer processor circuits configured and arranged to: provide an initial matrix comprising rows corresponding to microorganisms and columns corresponding to metadata associated with one or more of the microorganisms, the metadata including antibiogram data, wherein an element of the initial matrix linking a microorganism to an antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating no antibiogram data exist for the microorganism with respect to the antibiotic drug; factor the initial matrix using a matrix factorization algorithm, thereby forming a first factor matrix and a second factor matrix; and multiply the first factor matrix by the second factor matrix, thereby forming a reconstruction matrix, wherein an element of the reconstruction matrix linking the microorganism to the antibiotic drug has a numerical value indicating the microorganism is resistant or susceptible to the antibiotic drug.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the system is located at a cloud platform.
16. A method, comprising: acquiring antibiogram data that include a table in which the rows correspond to biological samples and the columns correspond to categories of metadata; transforming the table to an adjacency matrix; analyzing the adjacency matrix with a matrix factorization algorithm, thereby finding two factor matrices, and then computing a reconstructed adjacency matrix that is the product of the two factor matrices; and comparing the adjacency matrix to the reconstructed adjacency matrix in an entry-wise fashion.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the transforming includes the following steps: collecting all the entries from the table of antibiogram data and identifying unique instances of the metadata; constructing the adjacency matrix wherein the rows are biological samples and the columns are unique instances of the metadata; and setting the entries of the adjacency matrix to "1"s for the pairs of biological samples and metadata instances that occur in the antibiogram data, and setting the entries of the adjacency matrix to "0"s for the pairs of biological samples and metadata instances that do not occur in the antibiogram data.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein: if an entry value of a cell in the input adjacency matrix is 0 and an entry value of a corresponding cell in the reconstructed adjacency matrix is greater than 0, the entry value of the corresponding cell in the reconstructed adjacency matrix is interpreted as a prediction score associating a respective biosample (row index) with a metadata instance (column index).
19. The method of claim 18, wherein prediction scores of the reconstructed adjacency matrix are ranked by their values and thresholded, thereby identifying the most relevant predictions that are then output to a user of the method.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the samples are bacterial isolates.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the metadata include the names of antibiotics.
</claims>
</document>
