<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ATHENA DIAGNOSTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELZINGA, CHRISTOPHER
LAPIERRE, JENNIFER
BATISH, SAT DEV
HIGGINS, JOSEPH
MASTON, GLENN
BRAASTAD, COREY
JONES, JEFFERY
DIVINCENZO, CHRISTINA
DUBOIS, FELICITA
KARBASSI, IZABELA
MCCARTHY, MICHELE
MEDEIROS, KATELYN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52993490
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATHOGENICITY SCORING SYSTEM FOR HUMAN CLINICAL GENETICS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods and systems for determining the clinical significance of a genetic variant. The methods entail determining, for the variant, (a) a function score based on known impact of the variant on a biological function of a cell or protein, (b) a frequency score based on the frequency of the variant in a population, (c) a co-occurrence score based on how the variant co-occurs with a reference variant having known clinical significance relating to a clinical disease or condition, and (d) a family segregation score based on how the variant segregates with a disease or condition in a family; and aggregating, on a computer, the function score, the frequency score, the co-occurrence score, the family segregation score to generate a clinical significance score indicating the clinical significance of the genetic variant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-23. (canceled)
24. A method, comprising, receiving, by a computing device, a plurality of scores associated with a genetic variant; aggregating, by the computing device, the plurality of scores to generate a clinical significance score indicating a clinical significance of the genetic variant; and determining that the generated clinical significance score for the variant is above a threshold; and wherein an individual identified as having the variant or an immediate blood relative of the individual identified as having the variant is tested for a condition associated with the biological function of the cell or protein, responsive to the determination that the generated clinical significance score for the variant is above the threshold.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein aggregating the plurality of scores further comprises summing up, by the computing device, the plurality of scores with pre-determined weights.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein aggregating the plurality of scores further comprises retrieving, by the computing device, a value for the clinical significance score from a leaf node of a decision tree, wherein each score of the plurality of scores is associated with an internal node of the decision tree.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein a first value of a first score of the plurality of scores is associated with a first branch of the internal node of the decision tree corresponding to the first score.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the internal node of the decision tree corresponding to the first score has at least three branches corresponding to distinct values of the first score.
29. The method of claim 26, wherein the decision tree comprises at least one leaf node at a first layer of the decision tree, and at least one leaf node at a second, higher layer of the decision tree.
30. The method of claim 24, further comprising, responsive to the generated clinical significance score being above a first threshold and below a second threshold, aggregating a second plurality of scores to generate a second clinical significance score; wherein at least one of the second plurality of scores is based on new data accumulated after generating the clinical significance score.
31. The method of claim 24, further comprising excluding a second variant from an output report, responsive to a generated clinical significance score of the second variant being below the threshold.
32. The method of claim 24, wherein the plurality of scores comprise at least two of a function score based on known or projected impact of the variant on a biological function of a cell or protein; a frequency score based on the frequency of the variant in a population; a co-occurrence score based on how the variant co-occurs with a reference variant having known clinical significance relating to a clinical disease or condition; a family segregation score based on how the variant segregates with a disease or condition in a family; and a minor evidence score based on information from at least one functional impact prediction algorithm, whether the variant occurs within a critical protein domain, whether the variant would alter a post-translational modification, whether other known pathogenic variants occur within the same codon, and whether the variant is known to occur in at least one patient of a disease or condition.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising retrieving, by the computing device from a database comprising a plurality of variants and associated patients, co-occurrence or family segregation data for the variant.
34. A system, comprising: a computing device comprising a processor configured to: receive a plurality of scores associated with a genetic variant, aggregate the plurality of scores to generate a clinical significance score indicating a clinical significance of the genetic variant, and determine that the generated clinical significance score for the variant is above a threshold; and wherein an individual identified as having the variant or an immediate blood relative of the individual identified as having the variant is tested for a condition associated with the biological function of the cell or protein, responsive to the determination that the generated clinical significance score for the variant is above the threshold.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the computing device is further configured to sum up the plurality of scores with pre-determined weights.
36. The system of claim 34, wherein the computing device is further configured to retrieve a value for the clinical significance score from a leaf node of a decision tree, wherein each score of the plurality of scores is associated with an internal node of the decision tree.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein a first value of a first score of the plurality of scores is associated with a first branch of the internal node of the decision tree corresponding to the first score.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the internal node of the decision tree corresponding to the first score has at least three branches corresponding to distinct values of the first score.
39. The system of claim 36, wherein the decision tree comprises at least one leaf node at a first layer of the decision tree, and at least one leaf node at a second, higher layer of the decision tree.
40. The system of claim 34, wherein the computing device is further configured to, responsive to the generated clinical significance score being above a first threshold and below a second threshold, aggregate a second plurality of scores to generate a second clinical significance score; wherein at least one of the second plurality of scores is based on new data accumulated after generating the clinical significance score.
41. The system of claim 34, wherein the computing device is further configured to exclude a second variant from an output report, responsive to a generated clinical significance score of the second variant being below the threshold.
42. The system of claim 34, wherein the plurality of scores comprise at least two of a function score based on known or projected impact of the variant on a biological function of a cell or protein; a frequency score based on the frequency of the variant in a population; a co-occurrence score based on how the variant co-occurs with a reference variant having known clinical significance relating to a clinical disease or condition; a family segregation score based on how the variant segregates with a disease or condition in a family; and a minor evidence score based on information from at least one functional impact prediction algorithm, whether the variant occurs within a critical protein domain, whether the variant would alter a post-translational modification, whether other known pathogenic variants occur within the same codon, and whether the variant is known to occur in at least one patient of a disease or condition.
43. The system of claim 42, wherein the computing device is further configured to retrieve, from a database comprising a plurality of variants and associated patients, co-occurrence or family segregation data for the variant.
</claims>
</document>
