<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04B7/08,H04W24/10,H04W36/06,H04W36/30,H04W36/32,H04W36/36,H04W52/02,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEN, ARIJIT
KUMAR, LALITH
JHA, KAILASH KUMAR
GOEL, MUDIT
JANGID, ALOK KUMAR
GANDIKOTA, JAGADEESH
ROY, KOUSTAV
Nishant
SELVAGANESAN, Siva
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917505
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MOBILITY MEASUREMENTS IN NEW RADIO (NR) BASED MOBILE COMMUNICATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A method for performing mobility-measurements in new radio (NR) based 3GPP mobile communication network is provided. The method includes receiving network information with respect to a geographical area from one or more user equipments (UEs) operating in geographical area for a predefined duration of time. The received network information is classified at various time-instants during the predefined duration of time as at least one of an NR spectrum availability and NR spectrum non-availability. An overall probability of availability of the NR spectrum within the area is calculated for a time-instant subsequent to the predefined duration of time based on the classified network information. The UE is enabled for scheduling NR measurements within the area based on the calculated probability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing mobility-measurements in new radio (NR) based communication network, the method comprising: receiving network information for a plurality of time instances with respect to a geographical area from one or more user equipments (UEs) operating in the geographical area for a predefined duration of time; classifying the received network information for the plurality of time-instants as at least one of: an NR spectrum availability or NR spectrum non-availability; calculating an overall probability of availability of the NR spectrum within the area based on the classified network information; and enabling a UE from amongst a plurality of UEs to schedule NR measurements within the area based on the calculated probability.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the network information is defined as at least one of: a physical cell identifier (PCI) for at least one of a 4th generation (4G) cell and a 5th generation (5G) cell; an SIB2 indicator; a 5G Cell signal information; a UE location; public land mobile network (PLMN) info; Second cell group (SCG) failure info; Beam information; or 5G cell count in a track area identifier (TAI).
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the classifying of the received network information comprises processing the received information over a period of time by a server based on machine-learning criteria to classify the location as based on at least one of a 5G network or 4G network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculating of the received network information comprises identifying a density of 5G cells in 4G cell with respect to the location based on clustering-criteria.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the clustering criteria is defined by classifying received network information into one or more 5G cell clusters.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the enabling of the UE at scheduling NR measurements comprises: communicating the calculated probability with respect to the geographical area to a modem within the UE; and adjusting, by the modem, a frequency of scan and gap between consecutive scans with respect to NR measurements based on the calculated probability, the adjusting of the frequency of scan and gap comprising refraining from scanning in case of null probability.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the receiving of the network information, the classifying of the received network information, or the computing of the probability is executed by one or more of: a mobile management entity (MME) forming a part of the communication network; or access and mobile management function (AMF) node forming a part of the communication network.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the enabling of the UE comprises: communicating the computed-probability by at least one of the MME or AMF to the UE for enabling the UE to schedule NR measurements.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the network information is received, and classified by a network entity.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising: calculating the overall probability of the NR spectrum within the area based on the classified network information; and modifying the NR measurements configuration parameters and thresholds for the at least one UE based on the computed probability.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the network entity comprises a 4 g core network, 5 g core network, eNodeB, gNodeB, and network function blocks.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein at least one of the receiving of network information, the classifying of the received network information, or the computing of probability causes a network entity forming a part of a core communication to execute at least one of: adjustment of NR measurements configuration parameters and thresholds based on the computed probability; or management of NR measurement configurations based on the computed probability.
13. A method for performing mobility-measurements in new radio (NR) based communication network, the method comprising: determining new radio (NR) cell locations corresponding to a current location of a mobile-device at least based on an online-geographical map; computing an extent of NR coverage associated with current-location based on availability of with at least one of a first frequency range (FR1) or a second frequency range (FR2) for telecommunication by the UE; and enabling a UE at scheduling NR measurements within the area based on ascertaining if the UE is within or nearby the NR coverage.
14. A method for transmission reception beam (Tx-Rx) pair selection in 3GPP mobile communication network, the method comprising: storing a plurality of beam information with respect to a serving beam by a UE in respect of one or more locations; classifying the stored beam information stored and classifiable as at least one of: cell details, beam pair details, usage information, or route details; upon visit to a location by the UE, performing at least one of; switching onto a particular transmission reception beam pair (Tx-Rx) based on the accessed beam information; or predicting a transmission reception beam direction with respect to the location based on at least one of: previous Tx/Rx beam direction; an amount of displacement of the UE from previous visited location; or a direction of the current location relative to previous location; and with respect to the current location and based on the accessed beam information, comparing a previously logged position of the UE in three dimensions with a current position of the UE in three dimensions to thereby determine an angular deviation and causing the switching onto the particular transmission reception beam pair (Tx-Rx).
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining the currently switched Tx/Rx pair as exhibiting temporary or permanent blockage based on detecting underlying RSRP/RSRQ/SINR values; searching one or more other Tx/Rx pair for further switching by recursively searching in the direction of the currently selected Tx/Rx pair; and determining RSRP/RSRQ or SINR value of the searched Tx/Rx pair as better than currently-selected Tx/Rx pair to thereby enable the further switching on to the searched Tx/Rx pair.
16. A server in a telecommunication network for performing mobility-measurements in new radio (NR) based 3GPP mobile communication network, the server comprising: a transceiver configured to receive network information with respect to a geographical area from one or more UEs operating in geographical area for a predefined duration of time; and at least one processor configured to: classify the received network information at various time-instants during the predefined duration of time as at least one of: an NR spectrum availability or NR spectrum non-availability; calculate an overall probability of availability of the NR spectrum within the area for a time-instant subsequent to the predefined duration of time based on the classified network information, and enable a UE at scheduling NR measurements within the area based on the calculated probability.
17. A user equipment (UE) for performing mobility-measurements in new radio (NR) based 3GPP mobile communication network, the UE comprising: at least one processor configured to: determine new radio (NR) cell locations corresponding to a current location of a mobile-device at least based on an online-geographical map, compute an extent of NR coverage associated with current-location based on availability of with at least one of a first frequency range (FR1) or a second frequency range (FR2) for telecommunication, and enable a modem at scheduling NR measurements within the area based on ascertaining if the UE is within or nearby the NR coverage.
18. A user equipment (UE) for transmission reception beam (Tx-Rx) pair selection in 3GPP mobile communication network, the UE comprising: a memory configured to store a plurality of beam information with respect to a serving beam by a UE in respect of one or more locations; and at least one processor configured to: classify the plurality of beam-information stored as at least one of cell details, beam pair details, usage information, or route details, upon visit to a location, perform at least one of: switching onto a particular transmission reception beam pair (Tx-Rx) based on the accessed beam information; or predicting a transmission reception beam direction with respect to the location based on at least one of: a previous Tx/Rx beam direction, an amount of displacement of the UE from previous visited location, or a direction of the current location relative to previous location, and with respect to the current location and based on the accessed beam information, compare a previously logged position of the UE in three dimensions with a current position of the ultra reliable (UR) UE in three dimensions to thereby determine an angular deviation and causing the switching onto the particular transmission reception beam pair (Tx-Rx).
19. The UE of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine the currently switched Tx/Rx pair as exhibiting temporary or permanent blockage based on detecting underlying RSRP/RSRQ/SINR values, search one or more other Tx/Rx pair for further switching by recursively searching in the direction of the currently selected Tx/Rx pair, and determine RSRP/RSRQ or SINR value of the searched Tx/Rx pair as better than currently-selected Tx/Rx pair to thereby enable the further switching on to the searched Tx/Rx pair.
</claims>
</document>
