<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F8/20,G06F8/35,G06F9/451,G06N20/00,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABU-HADBA, WALID
PRICE, JEFF
STRAUB, CHRISTIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228688
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AI-GENERATED INSTANT MICRO APPS
</title>

<abstract>
An example system and method facilitate automatically generating a software application (e.g., a micro app) to facilitate performing a task, such as collecting information. In one embodiment, the method includes recording plural incidents filed by customers seeking assistance; detecting the filing of a new incident by a customer; using an Artificial Intelligence algorithm to process the incident, based on the plural incidents, to automatically determine additional information, and to determine one or more User Interface (UI) features for facilitating retrieving the additional information from the customer; generating a description of a UI that incorporates the one or more UI features; producing a mechanism (e.g., micro app) for providing access to the one or more UI features to the customer; receiving information from the customer, as entered via the one or more UI features; and storing the information in a database, such that the information is accessible to one or more software applications of the service technician.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. One or more tangible media including logic for facilitating collection and delivery of data, by performing the following acts: receiving a problem statement from a first person comprising a description of a first request; recording the description of the first request in a database; issuing a message to a second person tasked with addressing the request; receiving a second request by the second person for additional information about the first request from the first person; using the second request, the description of the first request, and context information derived therefrom and stored in the database, to automatically generate metadata describing a first User Interface (UI) with one or more UI controls for retrieving the additional information; automatically constructing a micro app in accordance with the metadata, the micro app including one or more UI display screens constructed in accordance with the metadata; delivering the micro app to the first person; receiving the additional information from the first person via data entered via the micro app; and making the additional information available to the second person from the database via a second UI.
2. The one or more tangible media of claim 1, wherein the first person includes a customer of a proprietor of a system implementing the acts of claim 1, and wherein the second person is tasked with responding to the customer.
3. The one or more tangible media of claim 2, wherein the problem statement includes a description of a complaint filed by the customer.
4. The one or more tangible media of claim 1, wherein the request includes natural language input provided by the second person.
5. The one or more tangible media of claim 4, wherein using includes employing the natural language input in combination with information characterizing a schema of the database, the schema associated with context information pertaining to the first request, to generate the metadata describing the first UI.
6. The one or more tangible media of claim 5, wherein the context information includes an identification number associated with the first request.
7. The one or more tangible media of claim 1, further including: using an instance of an AI algorithm to estimate what additional context information should be requested from the second person through selectively prompting the second person for the additional context information to augment preexisting context information.
8. The one or more tangible media of claim 7, wherein the second person includes a person attempting to fulfill a customer request, representing the first request, on behalf of the first person, which includes a customer that has provided the description of the first request.
9. The one or more tangible media of claim 8, wherein the description of the first request includes a natural language description.
10. The one or more tangible media of claim 7, further including: employing a UI metadata generator to generate a description of the one or more UI display screens; and using the AI algorithm to learn one or more associations between description of the first request and additional context information that represents available context information for the purposes of generating the one or more UI display screens.
11. A method for automatically generating a software application to facilitate performing a task, the method comprising: receiving a problem statement from a first person comprising a description of a first request; recording the description of the first request in a database; issuing a message to a second person tasked with addressing the request; receiving a second request by the second person for additional information about the first request from the first person; using the second request, the description of the first request, and context information derived therefrom and stored in the database, to automatically generate metadata describing a first User Interface (UI) with one or more UI controls for retrieving the additional information; automatically constructing a micro app in accordance with the metadata, the micro app including one or more UI display screens constructed in accordance with the metadata; delivering the micro app to the first person; receiving the additional information from the first person via data entered via the micro app; and making the additional information available to the second person from the database via a second UI.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first person includes a customer of a proprietor of a system implementing the acts of claim 1, and wherein the second person is tasked with responding to the customer.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the problem statement includes a description of a complaint filed by the customer.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the request includes natural language input provided by the second person.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein using includes employing the natural language input in combination with information characterizing a schema of the database, the schema associated with context information pertaining to the first request, to generate the metadata describing the first UI.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the context information includes an identification number associated with the first request.
17. The method of claim 1, further including: using an instance of an AI algorithm to estimate what additional context information should be requested from the second person through selectively prompting the second person for the additional context information to augment preexisting context information.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the second person includes a person attempting to fulfill a customer request, representing the first request, on behalf of the first person, which includes a customer that has provided the description of the first request.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the description of the first request includes a natural language description.
20. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; logic encoded in one or more non-transitory media for execution by the one or more processors and when executed operable for: receiving a problem statement from a first person comprising a description of a first request; recording the description of the first request in a database; issuing a message to a second person tasked with addressing the request; receiving a second request by the second person for additional information about the first request from the first person; using the second request, the description of the first request, and context information derived therefrom and stored in the database, to automatically generate metadata describing a first User Interface (UI) with one or more UI controls for retrieving the additional information; automatically constructing a micro app in accordance with the metadata, the micro app including one or more UI display screens constructed in accordance with the metadata; delivering the micro app to the first person; receiving the additional information from the first person via data entered via the micro app; and making the additional information available to the second person from the database via a second UI.
</claims>
</document>
