<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAS INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHA, KYUNGDUCK
Sadek, Carol Wagih
Talebi, Zohreh Asgharzadeh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73651620
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING AND MITIGATING ANOMALIES AND DEGRADATION ASSOCIATED WITH DEVICES AND THEIR OPERATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Physical-device anomalies and degradation can be mitigated by implementing some aspects described herein. For example, a system can determine a first data window and a second data window by applying a window function to streaming data. The system can determine a first principal eigenvector of the first data window and a first principal eigenvector of the second data window. The system can determine an angle change between the first principal eigenvectors of the two data windows. The system can then detect an anomaly based on determining that the angle change exceeds a predefined angle-change threshold. Additionally or alternatively, the system may compare the first principal eigenvector for the second data window to a baseline value to determine an absolute angle associated with the second data window. The system can then detect a degradation based on determining that the absolute angle exceeds a predefined absolute-angle threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory device comprising instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to: receive streaming data from a plurality of sensors, the streaming data being multidimensional data that includes a plurality of data points spanning a period of time; determine a first data window by applying a window function to the streaming data, the first data window spanning a first timespan and having a predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data; determine a first principal eigenvector of the first data window; determine a second data window by applying the window function to the streaming data, the second data window spanning a second timespan that is subsequent to the first timespan and having the predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data, wherein the second data window includes at least one data point that is different from the first data window; determine a first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determine an angle change between first principal eigenvector of the first data window and the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determine that the angle change exceeds a predefined angle-change threshold; detect an anomaly associated with a physical device based on determining that the angle change exceeds the predefined angle-change threshold, the physical device being associated with the plurality of sensors; compare the first principal eigenvector for the second data window to a baseline unit vector to determine an absolute angle associated with the second data window; determine that the absolute angle exceeds a predefined absolute-angle threshold; detect a degradation associated with the physical device based on determining that the absolute angle exceeds the predefined absolute-angle threshold; and generate one or more electronic signals indicating at least one of the anomaly or the degradation associated with the physical device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to determine the absolute angle by: determining a product of (i) the base unit vector and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the product by the norm; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein: determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the first data window; and determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the second data window.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to: determine the first principal eigenvector of the first data window by performing principal component analysis on the first data window; and determine the first principal eigenvector of the second data window by performing principal component analysis on the second data window.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the physical device is a sensor among the plurality of sensors, or the physical device is a machine to which the plurality of sensors are coupled for sensing characteristics of the machine.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the anomaly is indicative of an operational problem with the physical device that is distinct from the degradation.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to generate an electronic communication configured to cause the operational problem to be mitigated.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to transmit the electronic communication over a network to a remote computing device, the electronic communication being configured to cause the remote computing device to assist with mitigating the operational problem.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to apply a sliding window based on the window function to the streaming data at successive time intervals to generate the first data window and the second data window.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions that are executable by the processor for causing the processor to determine the angle change by: determining a first product of (i) the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a second product of (i) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the first product by the second product; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
11. A method comprising: receiving, by a processor, streaming data from a plurality of sensors, the streaming data being multidimensional data that includes a plurality of data points spanning a period of time; determining, by the processor, a first data window by applying a window function to the streaming data, the first data window spanning a first timespan and having a predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data; determining, by the processor, a first principal eigenvector of the first data window; determining, by the processor, a second data window by applying the window function to the streaming data, the second data window spanning a second timespan that is subsequent to the first timespan and having the predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data, wherein the second data window includes at least one data point that is different from the first data window; determining, by the processor, a first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining, by the processor, an angle change between first principal eigenvector of the first data window and the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining, by the processor, that the angle change exceeds a predefined angle-change threshold; detecting, by the processor, an anomaly associated with a physical device based on determining that the angle change exceeds the predefined angle-change threshold, the physical device being associated with the plurality of sensors; comparing, by the processor, the first principal eigenvector for the second data window to a baseline unit vector to determine an absolute angle associated with the second data window; determining, by the processor, that the absolute angle exceeds a predefined absolute-angle threshold; detecting, by the processor, a degradation associated with the physical device based on determining that the absolute angle exceeds the predefined absolute-angle threshold; and generating, by the processor, one or more electronic signals indicating at least one of the anomaly or the degradation associated with the physical device.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining the absolute angle by: determining a product of (i) the base unit vector and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the product by the norm; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein: determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the first data window; and determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the second data window.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determine the first principal eigenvector of the first data window by performing principal component analysis on the first data window; and determine the first principal eigenvector of the second data window by performing principal component analysis on the second data window.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the physical device is a sensor among the plurality of sensors, or the physical device is a machine to which the plurality of sensors are coupled for sensing characteristics of the machine.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the anomaly is indicative of an operational problem with the physical device that is distinct from the degradation.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising generating an electronic communication configured to cause the operational problem to be mitigated.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising transmitting the electronic communication over a network to a remote computing device, the electronic communication being configured to cause the remote computing device to assist with mitigating the operational problem.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising applying a sliding window based on the window function to the streaming data at successive time intervals to generate the first data window and the second data window.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining the angle change by: determining a first product of (i) the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a second product of (i) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the first product by the second product; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising program code that is executable by a processor for causing the processor to: receive streaming data from a plurality of sensors, the streaming data being multidimensional data that includes a plurality of data points spanning a period of time; determine a first data window by applying a window function to the streaming data, the first data window spanning a first timespan and having a predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data; determine a first principal eigenvector of the first data window; determine a second data window by applying the window function to the streaming data, the second data window spanning a second timespan that is subsequent to the first timespan and having the predefined number of consecutive data points from the streaming data, wherein the second data window includes at least one data point that is different from the first data window; determine a first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determine an angle change between first principal eigenvector of the first data window and the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determine that the angle change exceeds a predefined angle-change threshold; detect an anomaly associated with a physical device based on determining that the angle change exceeds the predefined angle-change threshold, the physical device being associated with the plurality of sensors; compare the first principal eigenvector for the second data window to a baseline unit vector to determine an absolute angle associated with the second data window; determine that the absolute angle exceeds a predefined absolute-angle threshold; detect a degradation associated with the physical device based on determining that the absolute angle exceeds the predefined absolute-angle threshold; and generate one or more electronic signals indicating at least one of the anomaly or the degradation associated with the physical device.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising program code that is executable by the processor for causing the processor to determine the absolute angle by: determining a product of (i) the base unit vector and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the product by the norm; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 22, wherein: determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the first data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the first data window; and determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window involves determining the first principal eigenvector of the second data window without determining any other eigenvectors of the second data window.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising program code that is executable by the processor for causing the processor to determine the first principal eigenvector of the first data window by performing principal component analysis on the first data window; and determine the first principal eigenvector of the second data window by performing principal component analysis on the second data window.
25. (canceled)
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the anomaly is indicative of an operational problem with the physical device that is distinct from the degradation.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 26, further comprising program code that is executable by the processor for causing the processor to generate an electronic communication configured to cause the operational problem to be mitigated.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 27, further comprising program code that is executable by the processor for causing the processor to transmit the electronic communication over a network to a remote computing device, the electronic communication being configured to cause the remote computing device to assist with mitigating the operational problem.
29. (canceled)
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising program code that is executable by the processor for causing the processor to determine the angle change by: determining a first product of (i) the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a second product of (i) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the first data window and (ii) a norm of the first principal eigenvector of the second data window; determining a result of dividing the first product by the second product; and determining an inverse cosine of the result.
31. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more electronic signals indicate a type or a severity of the anomaly, and wherein the remote computing device is configured to determine a countermeasure to implement for mitigating the anomaly based on the type or the severity of the anomaly.
32. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to: analyze streaming data that includes dozens of data points in substantially real time to identify one or more anomalies or one or more degradations impacting a performance of the physical device; and generate an electronic alert in response to identifying the one or more anomalies or the one or more degradations.
</claims>
</document>
