<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, SHUBHAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325449
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CUSTOMER BASED REAL-TIME AUTONOMOUS DYNAMIC PRODUCT CREATION AND RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM USING AI
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a server may determine a browsing history associated with a user, identify activities associated with purchasing a device, and determine features of the device. Individual features may be assigned a corresponding priority based on the browsing history. A machine learning algorithm may predict a configuration of the device based on the features and the corresponding priorities. The server may create a web page that describes a specification of the device based on the configuration and includes a comparison of at least some of the features of the device with other features of similar devices. The server may send a notification with a link to the web page. The web page may enable the user to modify the configuration and modify a price of the device. The server may receive a purchase order to purchase the device and instruct a manufacturing facility to build-to-order the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a browsing history associated with a browser used by a user; determining, by the one or more processors and based on the browsing history, activities performed prior to purchasing a device; determining, by the one or more processors and based on the activities, a plurality of features of the device that are of interest to the user; determining, by the one or more processors and based on the activities, a corresponding priority of individual features of the plurality of features; determining, by the one or more processors executing a machine learning algorithm, a configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; creating, by the one or more processors and based on the configuration, a web page describing a specification of the device; sending, by the one or more processors, a notification that includes a link to the web page to a browser of the user; receiving, by the one or more processors, a purchase order to purchase the device; and instructing, by the one or more processors, a manufacturing facility to build and ship the device to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority comprises: creating, using the machine learning algorithm, a weighted overlay based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; overlaying the weighted overlay with a conjoint analysis associated with the device; and determining the configuration of the device based at least in part on the weighted overlay and the conjoint analysis.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing a comparison of at least a portion of the plurality of features of the device with other features of similar devices; and including the comparison in the web page.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of features comprise at least two of: a price, a type of processor, an amount of random-access memory (RAM), a storage capacity of a drive, a display size of a display device, a display resolution of the display device, a touch screen capability of the display device, a battery life of the device, a number of ports, a type of one or more of the ports, a weight of the device, or one or more dimensions of the device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the web page, one or modifications to the configuration; modifying the configuration based at least in part on the one or more modifications; and modifying the price based at least in part on the one or more modifications.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the browsing history comprises: a plurality of sites that were visited; how many times an individual site of the plurality of sites was visited; and an average length of time that the individual site was visited.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the activities comprise at least one of: navigating to a product site associated with the device; navigating to an additional product site associated with an additional device that is similar to the device; navigating to a first review site that includes a review of the device; navigating to a second review site that includes a second review associated with the additional device; or navigating to a comparison site that includes a comparison of the device to the additional device.
8. A computing device comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a browsing history associated with a browser used by a user; determining, based on the browsing history, activities performed prior to purchasing a device; determining, based on the activities, a plurality of features of the device that are of interest to the user; determining, based on the activities, a corresponding priority of individual features of the plurality of features; determining, by a machine learning algorithm, a configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; creating, based on the configuration, a web page describing a specification of the device; sending a notification that includes a link to the web page to a browser of the user; receiving, by the one or more processors, a purchase order to purchase the device; and instructing, by the one or more processors, a manufacturing facility to build and ship the device to the user.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein determining the configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority comprises: creating, using the machine learning algorithm, a weighted overlay based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; overlaying the weighted overlay with a conjoint analysis associated with the device; and determining the configuration of the device based at least in part on the weighted overlay and the conjoint analysis.
10. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: performing a comparison of at least a portion of the plurality of features of the device with other features of similar devices, wherein the plurality of features comprise at least two of: a price, a type of processor, an amount of random-access memory (RAM), a storage capacity of a drive, a display size of a display device, a display resolution of the display device, a touch screen capability of the display device, a battery life of the device, a number of ports, a type of one or more of the ports, a weight of the device, or one or more dimensions of the device; and including the comparison in the web page.
11. The computing device of claim 8, further comprising: receiving, via the web page, one or modifications to the configuration; modifying the configuration based at least in part on the one or more modifications; and modifying the price based at least in part on the one or more modifications.
12. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the browsing history comprises: a plurality of sites that were visited; how many times an individual site of the plurality of sites was visited; an average length of time that the individual site of the plurality of sites was visited; a product page associated with the device; an additional product page associated with an additional device that is similar to the device; an online review associated with the device; an additional online review associated with the additional device; or an online comparison of the device with the additional device.
13. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the activities comprise at least one of: navigating to a product site associated with the device; navigating to an additional product site associated with an additional device that is similar to the device; navigating to a first review site that includes a review of the device; navigating to a second review site that includes a second review associated with the additional device; or navigating to a comparison site that includes a comparison of the device to the additional device.
14. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing instructions executable by one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a browsing history associated with a browser used by a user; determining, based on the browsing history, activities performed prior to purchasing a device; determining, based on the activities, a plurality of features of the device that are of interest to the user; determining, based on the activities, a corresponding priority of individual features of the plurality of features; determining, by a machine learning algorithm, a configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; creating, based on the configuration, a web page describing a specification of the device; sending a notification that includes a link to the web page to a browser of the user; receiving, by the one or more processors, a purchase order to purchase the device; and instructing, by the one or more processors, a manufacturing facility to build and ship the device to the user.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 14, wherein determining the configuration of the device based on the individual features and the corresponding priority comprises: creating, using the machine learning algorithm, a weighted overlay based on the individual features and the corresponding priority; overlaying the weighted overlay with a conjoint analysis associated with the device; and determining the configuration of the device based at least in part on the weighted overlay and the conjoint analysis.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: modifying the configuration of the device based on the features of the device; and modifying a price of the configuration to create a modified price that differs from a target price by less than a predetermined amount.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 16, wherein the plurality of features comprise at least two of: a price, a type of processor, an amount of random-access memory (RAM), a storage capacity of a drive, a display size of a display device, a display resolution of the display device, a touch screen capability of the display device, a battery life of the device, a number of ports, a type of one or more of the ports, a weight of the device, or one or more dimensions of the device.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, via the web page, one or modifications to the configuration; modifying the configuration based at least in part on the one or more modifications; and modifying the price based at least in part on the one or more modifications.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 14, wherein the browsing history comprises: a plurality of sites that were visited; how many times an individual site of the plurality of sites was visited; and an average length of time that the individual site was visited.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 14, wherein the activities comprise at least one of: navigating to a product site associated with the device; navigating to an additional product site associated with an additional device that is similar to the device; navigating to a first review site that includes a review of the device; navigating to a second review site that includes a second review associated with the additional device; or navigating to a comparison site that includes a comparison of the device to the additional device.
</claims>
</document>
