<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G08G1/01,H04W4/029,H04W4/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEOTAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEWIS, DANIEL JACOB
ZHANG, XIAOCHEN
NGUYEN, BRENDA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661723
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT TELEMATICS SYSTEM FOR DEFINING ROAD NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems and methods relating to defining a road network used by vehicles for movement and/or parking. A classifier may be employed for identifying portions of the road network via machine learning techniques and processing of historical telematic data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intelligent telematics system comprising a plurality of monitoring devices, a first datastore, a processing resource and a network interface configured to communicatively couple the plurality of monitoring devices to the first datastore, the intelligent telematics system configured for: transmitting raw vehicle data indicative of vehicle operating conditions from the plurality of monitoring devices; over a period of time, receiving the raw vehicle data and storing the raw data in the first datastore to form second historical vehicle data; partitioning a road network area into a plurality of contiguous second subzones for defining a road network zone; selecting vehicle data indicative of vehicle operating conditions for a plurality of vehicles corresponding to the road network zone; for each of the plurality of contiguous second subzones, generating a plurality of features based on the vehicle data; generating unlabelled data includes the plurality of features for each of the plurality of contiguous second subzones; processing the unlabelled data by a classifier generated using at least one machine learning technique for classifying each second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones as one of a portion of a vehicle way and not a portion of a vehicle way; forming classification data indicative of a classification of each of the plurality of contiguous second subzones; processing the classification data for determining a geographic location of the road network; and defining the road network includes generating data indicative of the geographic location of the road network.
2. The intelligent telematics system of claim 1 comprising a first data management system including the first data store and configured for transmitting, over the period of time, the raw vehicle data from the plurality of monitoring devices to the first data management system to form the second historical vehicle data.
3. The intelligent telematics system of claim 1 wherein at least one monitoring device of the plurality of monitoring devices comprises at least a sensing module configured to one of sense or measure a physical property of an operating condition of a vehicle.
4. The intelligent telematics system of claim 3 wherein the at least a sensing module is configured to one of sense or measure one of the following physical properties of an operating condition of a vehicle: position, speed, direction, rates of acceleration or deceleration, ignition state, external ambient temperature, transmission and engine performance.
5. The intelligent telematics system of claim 3 wherein the at least one monitoring device comprises a global navigation satellite system technology configured to determine a geographic position of a vehicle.
6. The intelligent telematics system of claim 5 wherein the global navigation satellite system technology includes Global Positioning System technology.
7. The intelligent telematics system of claim 1 wherein at least a monitoring device of the plurality of monitoring devices communicates with a vehicle communication port.
8. The intelligent telematics system of claim 7 wherein the vehicle communication port includes an OBDII port.
9. The intelligent telematics system of claim 1 wherein at least a monitoring device of the plurality of monitoring devices comprises a wireless communication interface configured to communicate with a wireless vehicle communication port.
10. The intelligent telematics system of claim 1 wherein at least a monitoring device of the plurality of monitoring devices communicates with one of an external device or system that detects operating conditions of a vehicle.
10. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 18 wherein interpolating data is dependent on classifier data.
11. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein generating data indicative of the geographic location of the road network comprises generating data indicative of geographic boundaries of the road network.
11. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 18 further configured for defining a boundary of the second traffic zone at a predetermined distance from a boundary of the road network zone.
12. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein partitioning a road network area into a plurality of contiguous second subzones for defining a road network zone comprises partitioning the road network area into a plurality of contiguous second subzones according to a hierarchical geospatial indexing system.
12. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 18 further configured for defining a boundary of the second traffic zone at a distance defined by a user from a boundary of the road network zone.
13. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein classifier data associated with the classifier defines dimensions of each of the plurality of contiguous second subzones.
13. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 18 further configured for defining a boundary of the second traffic zone based on a data file indicating geographical coordinates of the boundary thereof.
14. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein partitioning a road network area into a plurality of contiguous second subzones for defining a road network zone comprises partitioning the road network area into a plurality of contiguous second subzones according to a Geohash indexing system.
14. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein generating a plurality of features based on the vehicle data, for at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones, includes generating features defined by classifier data associated with the classifier.
15. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 14 wherein classifier data associated with the classifier defines a precision of Geohashes of the Geohash indexing system.
15. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein generating the plurality of features based on the vehicle data, for at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones, includes generating a plurality of second subzone-related features from a first subset of vehicle data corresponding to a location within a contiguous second subzone.
16. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein selecting vehicle data indicative of vehicle operating conditions for a plurality of vehicles corresponding to the road network zone includes selecting raw vehicle data from second historical data corresponding to the road network zone.
16. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 15 wherein generating the plurality of second subzone-related features includes generating the plurality of second subzone-related features selected from a group of: minimum vehicle speed, maximum vehicle speed, average vehicle speed, median vehicle speed, standard deviation of vehicle speed, minimum ignition, maximum ignition, total number of ignitions on, total number of ignitions off, average number of ignitions, ignition ratio, minimum number of vehicle visits/day, maximum number of vehicle visits/day, average number of vehicle visits/day, median number of vehicle visits/day, standard deviation of number of vehicle visits/day, minimum unique number of vehicle visits/day, maximum unique number of vehicle visits/day, median unique number of vehicle visits/day, standard deviation of unique number of vehicle visits/day, average unique number of vehicle visits/day, total number of vehicle visits, total number of unique vehicle visits, and average number of visits/vehicle.
17. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein selecting vehicle data indicative of vehicle operating conditions for a plurality of vehicles corresponding to the road network zone includes selecting raw vehicle data from second historical data corresponding to the road network zone and interpolating data therefrom.
17. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 15 wherein generating the plurality of second subzone-related features comprises generating the plurality of second subzone-related features from the first subset of vehicle data and a second subset of vehicle data includes vehicle data for a same vehicle temporally subsequent thereto.
18. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein selecting vehicle data indicative of vehicle operating conditions for a plurality of vehicles corresponding to the road network zone includes selecting raw vehicle data from second historical data corresponding to a second traffic zone and interpolating data therefrom.
18. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 17 wherein generating the plurality of second subzone-related features comprises generating the plurality of second subzone-related features selected from a group of: average time to park, minimum time to park, maximum time to park, median time to park, and standard deviation of time to park.
19. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 17 wherein generating the plurality of second subzone-related features comprises generating the plurality of second subzone-related features from the first subset of vehicle data and the second subset of vehicle data further includes vehicle data for a same vehicle temporally preceding and subsequent thereto.
20. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 19 wherein generating the plurality of second subzone-related features comprises generating a plurality of second subzone-related features selected from a group of: average dwell time, minimum dwell time, maximum dwell time, median dwell time, and standard deviation of dwell time.
21. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 15 wherein generating the plurality of features comprises generating road network zone-related features from a fourth subset of vehicle data instances corresponding to a position within the road network zone or from a portion of the plurality of second subzone-related features.
22. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 21 wherein generating road network zone-related features comprises generating road network zone-related features selected from a group of: road network zone minimum ignition off, road network zone maximum ignition off, road network zone average vehicle speed, road network zone maximum vehicle speed, road network zone minimum vehicle speed, road network zone average number of unique visits/day, road network zone minimum number of unique visits/day, road network zone maximum number of unique visits/day, road network zone average median number of unique visits/day, and road network zone total average number of unique visits/day.
23. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 21 wherein generating road network zone-related features comprises generating road network zone-related features from the portion of the plurality of second subzone-related features and are selected from a group of: road network zone average time to park, road network zone maximum time to park, road network zone minimum time to park, road network zone maximum dwell time, road network zone minimum dwell time, road network zone median dwell time, road network zone average dwell time, road network zone minimum number of unique visits, road network zone average number of unique visits, road network zone maximum number of unique visits, road network zone average total number of visits, road network zone maximum total number of visits, and road network zone minimum total number of visits.
24. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 21 wherein generating road network zone-related features comprises generating road network zone-related features from a third subset of vehicle data instances corresponding to a position within a road network zone and are selected from a group of: road network zone total number of visits and road network zone total number of unique visits.
25. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 21 wherein generating the plurality of features comprises generating second subzone-road network zone-related (SSRNZR) features from a relationship of the portion of the plurality of second subzone-related features to a portion of the road network zone-related features.
26. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 25 wherein generating second subzone-road network zone-related features comprises generating second subzone-road network zone-related features selected from a group of: SSRNZR Minimum Vehicle Speed Ratio, SSRNZR Average Vehicle Speed Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Vehicle Speed Ratio, SSRNZR Minimum Ignition Off Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Ignition Off Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Dwell Time Ratio, SSRNZR Minimum Dwell Time Ratio, SSRNZR Average Median Dwell Time Ratio, SSRNZR Average Dwell Time Ratio SSRNZR Minimum Time to Park Ratio, SSRNZR Average Time to Park Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Time to Park Ratio, SSRNZR Minimum Number of Unique Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Number of Unique Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Average Number of Unique Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Minimum Unique Number of Vehicle Visits/Day Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Unique Number of Vehicle Visits/Day Ratio, SSRNZR Average Unique Number of Vehicle Visits/Day Ratio, SSRNZR Total Unique Number of Vehicle Visits/Day Ratio, SSRNZR Average Median Unique Number of Vehicle Visits/Day Ratio, SSRNZR Minimum Total Number of Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Maximum Total Number of Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Average Total Number of Vehicle Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Total Number of Vehicle Unique Visits Ratio, SSRNZR Total Number of Vehicle Visits Ratio.
27. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 configured for, for at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone, obtaining spatial relationship data and generating at least one feature from the spatial relationship data.
28. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 27 wherein obtaining spatial relationship data comprises obtaining spatial relationship data indicative of a number of contiguous second subzones adjacent the at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone.
29. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 28 wherein the at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone is a Geohash.
30. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 29 wherein obtaining spatial relationship data for the at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone comprises obtaining spatial relationship data indicative of a number of neighbours of the Geohash.
31. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 27 wherein obtaining spatial relationship data for the at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone comprises obtaining spatial relationship data indicative of a number of contiguous second subzones adjacent to the at least a contiguous second subzone having vehicle data corresponding to a location therein.
32. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 29 wherein obtaining spatial relationship data for the at least a contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of the road network zone comprises obtaining spatial relationship data indicative of a number of neighbours of the Geohash having vehicle data corresponding to a location therein.
33. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein processing the classification data for determining a geographic location of the road network includes processing classification data of each contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous subzones of a road network zone labelled as a portion of a vehicle way.
34. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 33 wherein generating data indicative of the geographic location of the road network includes generating data indicative of each contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones of a road network zone labelled as a portion of a vehicle way.
35. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 wherein generating data indicative of the geographic location of the road network includes generating data indicative of geographical boundaries thereof.
36. The intelligent telematics system according to claim 1 further configured for processing the classification data for determining a geographic location of the road network including steps of: a) for each contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones classified as a portion of a vehicle way, forming first neighbour count data indicative of a number of neighbours thereof classified as a portion of a vehicle way; summing first neighbour count data of each neighbour thereof for forming neighbour sum data; dependent on one of a first neighbour count less than 3 and a neighbour sum less than 9, modifying the classification data associated therewith to indicate a classification of the contiguous second subzone as not a portion of a vehicle way; b) for each contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones classified as a not a portion of a vehicle way, forming second neighbour count data indicative of a number of neighbours thereof classified as a portion of a vehicle way; dependent on a second neighbour count greater than 4, modifying the classification data associated therewith to indicate a classification of the contiguous second subzone as a portion of a vehicle way; c) for each contiguous second subzone of the plurality of contiguous second subzones classified as a portion of a vehicle way, forming third neighbour count data indicative of a number of neighbours thereof classified as a portion of a vehicle way; and dependent on a third neighbour count less than 3, modifying the classification data associated therewith to indicate the classification of the contiguous second subzone as not a portion of a vehicle way.
</claims>
</document>
