<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, YOUNG CHOON
SINHA, SUDHI R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66532633
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUILDING SYSTEM WITH A SPACE GRAPH WITH INDIRECT IMPACT RELATIONSHIPS
</title>

<abstract>
A building system including one or more memory devices configured to store instructions thereon, the instructions causing one or more processors to receive building data from one or more building data sources, identify, based on the building data, an indirect relationship between a first entity and a second entity of a space graph, the indirect relationship caused by a control algorithm of the space graph, update the space graph with the indirect relationship by causing the space graph to include an indirect relationship edge between a first node of nodes representing the first entity and a second node of the nodes representing the second entity, update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge, and operate one or more pieces of building equipment based on the updated control algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A building system for operating a building and managing building information, the building system comprising one or more memory devices configured to store instructions thereon, the instructions causing one or more processors to: receive building data from one or more building data sources; identify, based on the building data, an indirect relationship between a first entity and a second entity of a space graph, the indirect relationship caused by a control algorithm of the space graph, wherein the space graph is a graph data structure comprising a plurality of nodes representing a plurality of entities, a plurality of edges between the plurality of nodes representing a plurality of relationships between the plurality of entities, and data values of the building data associated with the entities; update the space graph with the indirect relationship by causing the space graph to include an indirect relationship edge between a first node of the plurality of nodes representing the first entity and a second node of the plurality of nodes representing the second entity; update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge; and operate one or more pieces of building equipment based on the updated control algorithm.
2. The building system of claim 1, wherein one of the plurality of entities is an agent configured to perform artificial intelligence to update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge.
3. The building system of claim 1, wherein the building data comprises environmental condition data indicating an environmental condition of the second entity, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to identify the indirect relationship between the first entity and the second entity based on changes in the environmental condition and control commands associated of the first entity.
4. The building system of claim 1, wherein the indirect relationship indicates that performing one or more operations by the first entity indirectly affects an environmental condition of the second entity.
5. The building system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of entities further comprises a first zone, wherein the second entity is a second zone, wherein the first entity is a piece of building equipment configured to control an environmental condition of the first zone, wherein the piece of building equipment controlling the environmental condition of the first zone indirectly affects the environmental condition of the second zone.
6. The building system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive a query for information of the space graph from a requesting device, wherein the information is included by one of the plurality of nodes of the space graph; retrieve the information from the space graph by traversing at least some of the plurality of entities and at least some of the plurality of edges to identify the information without traversing other entities or other relationships of a data structure other than the space graph; and provide the information to the requesting device.
7. The building system of claim 6, wherein the query comprises an indication of the at least some of the plurality of nodes and the at least some of the plurality of entities to traverse to identify the information.
8. A method a building system of a building, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing circuit, building data from one or more building data sources; identifying, by the processing circuit, based on the building data, an indirect relationship between a first entity and a second entity of a space graph, the indirect relationship caused by a control algorithm of the space graph, wherein the space graph is a graph data structure comprising a plurality of nodes representing a plurality of entities, a plurality of edges between the plurality of nodes representing a plurality of relationships between the plurality of entities, and data values of the building data associated with the entities; updating, by the processing circuit, the space graph with the indirect relationship by causing the space graph to include an indirect relationship edge between a first node of the plurality of nodes representing the first entity and a second node of the plurality of nodes representing the second entity; updating, by the processing circuit, the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge; and operating, by the processing circuit, one or more pieces of building equipment based on the updated control algorithm.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein one of the plurality of entities is an agent configured to perform artificial intelligence to update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the building data comprises environmental condition data indicating an environmental condition of the second entity, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to identify the indirect relationship between the first entity and the second entity based on changes in the environmental condition and control commands associated of the first entity.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the indirect relationship indicates that performing one or more operations by the first entity indirectly affects an environmental condition of the second entity.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of entities further comprises a first zone, wherein the second entity is a second zone, wherein the first entity is a piece of building equipment configured to control an environmental condition of the first zone, wherein the piece of building equipment controlling the environmental condition of the first zone indirectly affects the environmental condition of the second zone.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving, by the processing circuit, a query for information of the space graph from a requesting device, wherein the information is included by one of the plurality of nodes of the space graph; retrieving, by the processing circuit, the information from the space graph by traversing at least some of the plurality of entities and at least some of the plurality of edges to identify the information without traversing other entities or other relationships of a data structure other than the space graph; and providing, by the processing circuit, the information to the requesting device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the query comprises an indication of the at least some of the plurality of nodes and the at least some of the plurality of entities to traverse to identify the information.
15. A building management system for operating a building and managing building information, the building management system comprising a processing circuit configured to: receive building data from one or more building data sources; identify, based on the building data, an indirect relationship between a first entity and a second entity of a space graph, the indirect relationship caused by a control algorithm of the space graph, wherein the space graph is a graph data structure comprising a plurality of nodes representing a plurality of entities, a plurality of edges between the plurality of nodes representing a plurality of relationships between the plurality of entities, and data values of the building data associated with the entities; update the space graph with the indirect relationship by causing the space graph to include an indirect relationship edge between a first node of the plurality of nodes representing the first entity and a second node of the plurality of nodes representing the second entity; update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge; and operate one or more pieces of building equipment based on the updated control algorithm.
16. The building management system of claim 15, wherein one of the plurality of entities is an agent configured to perform artificial intelligence to update the control algorithm of the space graph based on the indirect relationship edge.
17. The building management system of claim 15, wherein the building data comprises environmental condition data indicating an environmental condition of the second entity, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to identify the indirect relationship between the first entity and the second entity based on changes in the environmental condition and control commands associated of the first entity.
18. The building management system of claim 15, wherein the indirect relationship indicates that performing one or more operations by the first entity indirectly affects an environmental condition of the second entity.
19. The building management system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of entities further comprises a first zone, wherein the second entity is a second zone, wherein the first entity is a piece of building equipment configured to control an environmental condition of the first zone, wherein the piece of building equipment controlling the environmental condition of the first zone indirectly affects the environmental condition of the second zone.
20. The building management system of claim 15, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive a query for information of the space graph from a requesting device, wherein the information is included by one of the plurality of nodes of the space graph; retrieve the information from the space graph by traversing at least some of the plurality of entities and at least some of the plurality of edges to identify the information without traversing other entities or other relationships of a data structure other than the space graph; and provide the information to the requesting device.
</claims>
</document>
