<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06F1/03,G06N20/00,G06Q40/08,G16H10/60,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VFD CONSULTING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOLAN, VERA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66697050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Reference interval generation
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and methods for generating health or risk parameter reference intervals for use in healthcare or any other application of risk/attribute measurement. The reference intervals generated by the systems and methods described herein are based on direct analysis and evidence-based models of human and/or other living organism data from a population of individuals including shared feature(s) and outcome data such as vital status. The direct analysis and evidence-based models of human and/or other living organisms data utilize shared common risk parameter feature(s) and outcome data and identify relationships of two or more health or risk parameters relative to one another. These methods also apply to the measurement of risk and/or other attributes of any living organism or nonliving objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for processing parameter data in order to generate one or more reference intervals of joint first and second data parameters, the system comprising: (a) a digital processing device comprising a processor, a memory, and an operating system configured to perform executable instructions; and (b) a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to generate the one or more reference intervals, the computer program comprising: (i) a data ingestion module configured to import data, the data comprising long-term parameter data comprising first parameter data, second parameter data, and outcome data from a population having at least one shared feature; (ii) a grouping module configured to group the first parameter data into a first plurality of data groups and the second parameter data into a second plurality of data groups; (iii) a joining module configured to join the first plurality of data groups with the second plurality of data groups generating a plurality of joint parameters; (iv) a comparison module configured to compare the outcome data with the plurality of joint parameters thereby generating joint outcome data; (v) a distribution module configured to determine a distribution of the plurality of joint parameters; (vi) an overlap module configured to determine whether an overlap is present between the distribution of the plurality of joint parameters and the joint outcome data; (vii) an interval generating module configured to generate the one or more reference intervals based on the overlap, wherein when the overlap is present, the distribution of the plurality of joint parameters is relatively high and an outcome risk represented by the joint outcome data is relatively low; and (viii) a table generating module configured to generate a two dimensional lookup table comprising the one or more reference intervals.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the overlap module comprises a machine learning algorithm trained to automatically detect whether the overlap is present between the distribution of the plurality of joint parameters and the joint outcome data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer program further comprises a data extraction module configured to extract the parameter data and outcome data for the population from the data that is ingested.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer program further comprises a parameter selection module configured to allow the lookup table creator to select the first parameter, the second parameter, or both the first parameter and the second parameter.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer program further comprises a feature selection module configured to allow the lookup table creator to select the shared feature(s).
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer program further comprises a visualization module configured to generate a 3D visualization of the distribution of the plurality of joint risk parameters and a 3D visualization of the joint mortality or adverse outcome data.
7. A computer-implemented system for processing parameter data in order to generate one or more reference intervals, the system comprising: (a) a digital processing device comprising a processor, a memory, and an operating system configured to perform executable instructions; and (b) a computer program including instructions executable by the digital processing device to generate the one or more reference intervals, the computer program comprising: (i) receiving a first plurality of parameter values, a second plurality of parameter values, a population percentage, and an outcome rate, wherein the first plurality of parameter values, the second plurality of parameter values, or both are measured in a population; (ii) mapping, graphically in three dimensions, the first and the second parameter values with the population percentage thereby generating a population percentage map; (iii) mapping, graphically in three dimensions, the first and the second parameter values with the outcome rate, thereby generating an outcome rate map; (iv) overlaying the population percentage map onto the outcome rate map thereby generating an overlap map; (v) generating the reference interval values based on the overlap map; and (vi) populating the database with the reference interval values.
8. The system of claim 7, comprising segregating the first plurality of parameter values into a first plurality of value groups and segregating the second plurality of parameter values into a second plurality of value groups.
9. The system of claim 8, comprising determining an upper value limit and a lower value limit of each of the first plurality of value groups and each of the second plurality of value groups after generating the overlap map.
10. The system of claim 9, comprising associating, respectively, each of the first plurality of value groups with each of the second plurality of value groups thereby generating a plurality of associated groups.
11. The system of claim 7, comprising determining an area of overlapping values in the overlap map where total population percentage is largest and the outcome rate is lowest.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the reference interval comprises upper values and lower values of the area of overlapping values in the overlap map where total population percentage is largest and the outcome rate is lowest.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein the reference interval comprises a lookup table.
14. A computer implemented method for processing parameter and population data to generate a database with reference intervals comprising: (a) receiving a first plurality of parameter values, a second plurality of parameter values, a population percentage, and an outcome rate, wherein the first plurality of parameter values, the second plurality of parameter values, or both are measured in a population; (b) mapping, graphically in three dimensions, the first and the second parameter values with the population percentage thereby generating a population percentage map; (c) mapping, graphically in three dimensions, the first and the second parameter values with the outcome rate, thereby generating an outcome rate map; (d) overlaying the population percentage map onto the outcome rate map thereby generating an overlap map; (e) generating the reference interval values based on the overlap map; and (f) populating the database with the reference interval values.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 14, comprising segregating the first plurality of parameter values into a first plurality of value groups and segregating the second plurality of parameter values into a second plurality of value groups.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 15, comprising determining an upper value limit and a lower value limit of each of the first plurality of value groups and each of the second plurality of value groups after generating the overlap map.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 16, comprising associating, respectively, each of the first plurality of value groups with each of the second plurality of value groups thereby generating a plurality of associated groups.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 14, comprising determining an area of overlapping values in the overlap map where total population percentage is largest and the outcome rate is lowest.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 14, wherein the reference interval comprises upper values and lower values of the area of overlapping values in the overlap map where total population percentage is largest and the outcome rate is lowest.
20. The computer implemented method of claim 14, wherein the reference interval comprises a lookup table.
</claims>
</document>
