<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/50,B60Q5/00,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PONY.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
YU, XIANG
LOU, TIANCHENG
PENG, JUN
ZHOU, ZIXUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ON-SITE NOTIFICATION FROM AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE FOR TRAFFIC SAFETY
</title>

<abstract>
A system included and a computer-implemented method performed in an autonomous-driving vehicle are described. The system performs: detecting one or more movable traffic objects; determining one or more target movable traffic objects from the one or more detected movable traffic objects; determining a type of the one or more target movable traffic objects and an traffic object that has a right of way (ROW) in a situation involving the autonomous-driving vehicle. The system further performs: determining a manner of generating a vehicle behavior notification to the target movable traffic object based on the type of the one or more target movable traffic objects and the ROW; and causing a vehicle behavior notification of the determined manner to be generated to the one or more target movable traffic objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A notification system for an autonomous-driving vehicle, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: determining a target traffic object from traffic objects; determining, based at least in part on the target traffic object, whether the autonomous-driving vehicle has a right of way; and generating, based on the determination of whether the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way, a vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object.
2. The notification system of claim 1, wherein the target traffic object and the traffic objects are identified based on data associated with attributes of the target traffic object and the traffic objects.
3. The notification system of claim 2, wherein the data associated with the attributes of the target traffic object and the traffic objects is captured through sensors onboard the autonomous-driving vehicle, and wherein the sensors onboard the autonomous-driving vehicle include at least one of a Lidar or a camera.
4. The notification system of claim 1, wherein determining the target traffic object from the traffic objects comprises: determining a route associated with the autonomous-driving vehicle; determining predicted routes associated with the traffic objects; determining, based on the route and the predicted routes, at least one traffic object from the traffic objects that is predicted to be within a predetermined distance from the autonomous-driving vehicle; and identifying the at least one traffic object as the target traffic object.
5. The notification system of claim 4, wherein the route associated with the autonomous-driving vehicle is determined based on two or more of a current location, a destination, traffic conditions, weather conditions, environmental conditions, and a number of turns in a route.
6. The notification system of claim 1, wherein the right of way is determined based on one or more of traffic rules, traffic signals, traffic signs associated with a location of the autonomous-driving vehicle and in relation to the target traffic object.
7. The notification system of claim 1, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way; determining, based on traffic conditions, the autonomous-driving vehicle is able to safely proceed; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to proceed.
8. The notification system of claim 1, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way; determining, based on traffic conditions, the autonomous-driving vehicle is unable to safely proceed; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to avoid an unsafe condition.
9. The notification system of claim 1, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle does not have the right of way; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to yield to the target traffic object.
10. The notification system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle behavior notification is at least one of a visual or an acoustic notification, wherein the visual notification includes at least one of changing a color, a pattern, or brightness associated with light.
11. A computer-implemented method performed in an autonomous-driving vehicle comprising: determining a target traffic object from traffic objects; determining, based at least in part on the target traffic object, whether the autonomous-driving vehicle has a right of way; and generating, based on the determination of whether the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way, a vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the target traffic object and the traffic objects are identified based on data associated with attributes of the target traffic object and the traffic objects.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the data associated with the attributes of the target traffic object and the traffic objects is captured through sensors onboard the autonomous-driving vehicle, and wherein the sensors onboard the autonomous-driving vehicle include at least one of a Lidar or a camera.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the target traffic object from the traffic objects comprises: determining a route associated with the autonomous-driving vehicle; determining predicted routes associated with the traffic objects; determining, based on the route and the predicted routes, at least one traffic object from the traffic objects that is predicted to be within a predetermined distance from the autonomous-driving vehicle; and identifying the at least one traffic object as the target traffic object.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the route associated with the autonomous-driving vehicle is determined based on two or more of a current location, a destination, traffic conditions, weather conditions, environmental conditions, and a number of turns in a route.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the right of way is determined based on one or more of traffic rules, traffic signals, traffic signs associated with a location of the autonomous-driving vehicle and in relation to the target traffic object.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way; determining, based on traffic conditions, the autonomous-driving vehicle is able to safely proceed; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to proceed.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle has the right of way; determining, based on traffic conditions, the autonomous-driving vehicle is unable to safely proceed; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to avoid an unsafe condition.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein generating the vehicle behavior notification for the target traffic object comprises: determining the autonomous-driving vehicle does not have the right of way; and generating the vehicle behavior notification to indicate an intent of the autonomous-driving vehicle to yield to the target traffic object.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the vehicle behavior notification is at least one of a visual or an acoustic notification, wherein the visual notification includes at least one of changing a color, a pattern, or brightness associated with light.
</claims>
</document>
