<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/54,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
YALAMANCHILI, KALYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65995843
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOBILE COMPUTING DEVICE NOTIFICATION MODE DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described for providing a notification mode determination service. A notification mode determination service may apply various criteria to determine a mode for displaying a notification on a mobile computing device, and may analyze responses to previously displayed notifications in order to determine the criteria to apply, prioritize the application of the criteria, and identify preferred notification modes. Notifications may be displayed using audio feedback, visual feedback, haptic feedback, or combinations thereof, and may be deferred until a particular time or condition is reached. Notification modes may be determined based on factors such as a foreground software application, a type or category of the foreground software application, calendar events, holidays, geolocations, and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile computing device comprising: a data store configured to store computer executable instructions; and a processor in communication with the data store, wherein the computer executable instructions, when executed by the processor, configure the processor to perform operations including: receiving, from an external source, a request to display a notification; determining a priority of the request, wherein the priority of the request is associated with a first user-specified criterion and a first notification mode of a plurality of notification modes; causing display of the notification in accordance with the first notification mode; and in response to determining a user preference for a different notification mode based at least in part on a first response to the display of the notification in accordance with the first notification mode, modifying priority information such that the priority of the request is associated with a second user-specified criterion and a second notification mode.
2. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein the response to the display of the notification in accordance with the first notification mode comprises dismissal of the notification.
3. The mobile computing device of claim 2, wherein determining the user preference for the different notification mode includes determining that the dismissal of the notification occurred within a threshold time interval of the display of the notification.
4. The mobile computing device of claim 2, wherein the second user-specified criterion is specifies that a first application is executing in the foreground when the notification is displayed.
5. The mobile computing device of claim 2, wherein the second notification mode comprises a deferred notification mode.
6. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein determining the user preference for the different notification mode comprises: identifying a plurality of responses to notifications displayed in accordance with the first notification mode while the mobile computing device is in a first geographic location, the plurality of responses including the first response; determining that an average response time for the plurality of responses satisfies a threshold.
7. A computer-implemented method under control of one or more computing devices executing specific computer-executable instructions, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a request to display a first notification on a mobile computing device; determining that the request satisfies a first user-specified criterion; causing display of the first notification on the mobile computing device in accordance with a first notification mode, the first notification mode specified based on applicability of the first user-specified criterion; determining, based at least in part on a response to the display of the first notification, applicability of a second user-specified criterion; causing display of the second notification on the mobile device in accordance with a second notification mode responsive to a determination that the second user-specified criterion takes precedence over the first user-specified criterion, the second notification mode specified based on applicability of the second user-specified criterion.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising determining that an attribute of the request satisfies the second user-specified criterion.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising determining that an attribute of the mobile computing device satisfies the second user-specified criterion.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the first user-specified criterion comprises a first time-based criterion specifying a first time period.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the second user-specified criterion comprises a second time-based criterion specifying a second time period, and wherein the second time period is shorter in duration than the first time period.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the first user-specified criterion comprises a foreground application category, and wherein the second user-specified criterion comprises a first application within the foreground application category.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 7 further comprising determining that the second user-specified criterion takes precedence over the first user-specified criterion based at least in part on an amount of elapsed time between the display of the first notification and the response.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, configure the processor to perform operations including: receiving a request to display a first notification on a mobile computing device; obtaining a plurality of responses to displays of individual notifications on a set of computing devices, wherein each display of a notification on the mobile computing device is in accordance with individual criteria of a plurality of user-specified criteria; identifying, based at least in part on the plurality of responses, a pattern associated with responses to notifications displayed in accordance with a first user-specified criterion, wherein the first user-specified criterion is associated with a first notification mode; determining, based at least in part on the pattern, a priority of the first user-specified criterion relative to a second user-specified criterion, wherein the second user-specified criterion is associated with a second notification mode; and causing display of the first notification on the mobile computing device in accordance with the second notification mode responsive to a determination that the second user-specified criterion takes precedence over the first user-specified criterion.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein identifying the pattern associated with notifications displayed in accordance with the first user-specified criterion is based at least in part on applying a machine learning model trained on the plurality of responses to predict a response to the first notification.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein identifying the pattern associated with responses to notifications displayed in accordance with the first user-specified criterion comprises identifying one or more of a threshold number of responses corresponding to a first user activity, a threshold percentage of responses corresponding to the first user activity, or a trend in responses corresponding to the first user activity.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first user activity comprises one or more of dismissing a notification, muting audio output, or responding after a threshold time interval.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14 containing further computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, configure the processor to perform further operations including determining the second user-specified criterion based at least in part on the pattern associated with responses to notifications displayed in accordance with the first user-specified criterion.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14 containing further computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, configure the processor to perform further operations including causing display of a user interface that enables a user to modify a prioritization of the plurality of user-specified criteria.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the plurality of responses to displays of individual notifications on the set of computing devices is associated with a first user.
</claims>
</document>
