<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAN, EA-EE
VAIDYANATHAN, JAYASHREE
WHITE EAGLE, SARAH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSTRUCTURED DATA CLUSTERING OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICE DELIVERY ACTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer program products relating to clustering unstructured data. A set of unstructured documents is tokenized to produce a plurality of tokens. A frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens is analyzed, to generate a vocabulary of terms. A vocabulary indices matrix is generated based on the generated vocabulary of terms. The matrix relates to the set of unstructured documents. A plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix are matched to generate a plurality of clusters for the set of unstructured documents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of clustering unstructured data comprising: tokenizing, using a computer processor, a set of unstructured documents to produce a plurality of tokens; analyzing, using the computer processor, a frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms; generating, using the computer processor, a vocabulary indices matrix, relating to the set of unstructured documents, based on the generated vocabulary of terms; and matching, using the computer processor, a plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix to generate a plurality of clusters for the set of unstructured documents.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a set of training data for a machine learning model using the generated plurality of clusters.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: training the machine learning model using the set of training data; and classifying an additional unstructured document, not present in the set of unstructured documents, using the trained machine learning model.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the set of unstructured documents comprises a set of IT tickets, and wherein the additional unstructured document comprises an additional IT ticket, the method further comprising: identifying a procedure for automatic resolution of the additional IT ticket, based on the classification using the trained machine learning model.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: automatically resolving the additional IT ticket using the identified procedure.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms further comprises: identifying a frequency threshold below which terms should be excluded from the vocabulary; identifying a first term, of the plurality of terms appearing in the plurality of tokens, for which the frequency with which the term appear in the plurality of tokens falls below the frequency threshold; and excluding the first term from the vocabulary of terms.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a modified plurality of tokens by replacing at least one token, of the plurality of tokens, with a class value, by matching the token value to a pattern associated with the class value, wherein the vocabulary of terms is generated based on the modified plurality of tokens.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein matching a plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix to generate a plurality of clusters further comprises: identifying a first row in the vocabulary indices matrix, the first row associated with a first document of the set of unstructured documents; identifying a second row in the vocabulary indices matrix, the second row associated with a second document of the set of unstructured documents; and determining that values in the first row match values in the second row, and in response grouping the first document and the second document in a cluster.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the vocabulary indices matrix includes a plurality of rows, each row associated with a document of the set of unstructured documents;
10. The method of claim 9, wherein each row in the vocabulary indices matrix is a bit vector.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of unstructured documents comprises a set of IT tickets, further comprising: estimating a number of IT tickets suitable for automatic resolution using the generated plurality of clusters.
12. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory storing a program, which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation, the operation comprising: tokenizing a set of unstructured documents to produce a plurality of tokens; analyzing a frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms; generating a vocabulary indices matrix, relating to the set of unstructured documents, based on the generated vocabulary of terms; and matching a plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix to generate a plurality of clusters for the set of unstructured documents.
13. The system of claim 12, the operation further comprising: generating a set of training data for a machine learning model using the generated plurality of clusters; training the machine learning model using the set of training data; and classifying an additional unstructured document, not present in the set of unstructured documents, using the trained machine learning model.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of unstructured documents comprises a set of IT tickets, and wherein the additional unstructured document comprises an additional IT ticket, the operation further comprising: identifying a procedure for automatic resolution of the additional IT ticket, based on the classification using the trained machine learning model.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein analyzing the frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms further comprises: identifying a frequency threshold below which terms should be excluded from the vocabulary; identifying a first term, of the plurality of terms appearing in the plurality of tokens, for which the frequency with which the term appear in the plurality of tokens falls below the frequency threshold; and excluding the first term from the vocabulary of terms
16. A computer program product for clustering unstructured data, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, the computer-readable program code executable by one or more computer processors to perform an operation, the operation comprising: tokenizing a set of unstructured documents to produce a plurality of tokens; analyzing a frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms; generating a vocabulary indices matrix, relating to the set of unstructured documents, based on the generated vocabulary of terms; and matching a plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix to generate a plurality of clusters for the set of unstructured documents.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, the operation further comprising: generating a set of training data for a machine learning model using the generated plurality of clusters; training the machine learning model using the set of training data; and classifying an additional unstructured document, not present in the set of unstructured documents, using the trained machine learning model.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the set of unstructured documents comprises a set of IT tickets, and wherein the additional unstructured document comprises an additional IT ticket, the operation further comprising: identifying a procedure for automatic resolution of the additional IT ticket, based on the classification using the trained machine learning model; and automatically resolving the additional IT ticket using the identified procedure.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein analyzing the frequency at which terms appear in the plurality of tokens to generate a vocabulary of terms further comprises: identifying a frequency threshold below which terms should be excluded from the vocabulary; identifying a first term, of the plurality of terms appearing in the plurality of tokens, for which the frequency with which the term appear in the plurality of tokens falls below the frequency threshold; and excluding the first term from the vocabulary of terms.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein matching a plurality of rows in the vocabulary indices matrix to generate a plurality of clusters further comprises: identifying a first row in the vocabulary indices matrix, the first row associated with a first document of the set of unstructured documents; identifying a second row in the vocabulary indices matrix, the second row associated with a second document of the set of unstructured documents; and determining that values in the first row match values in the second row, and in response grouping the first document and the second document in a cluster.
</claims>
</document>
