<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2455,G06F16/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QLIKTECH INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRUPINSKI, PAWEL RAFAL
LÓPEZ, JOSÉ DIAZ
NGUYEN, KHOA TAN
NILSSON, JOHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69137709
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR INDEXLET BASED AGGREGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods and systems for traversing a data model with a plurality of workers to generate a plurality of virtual records for use in evaluating an expression by a plurality of aggregators. Each aggregator may receive a respective virtual record and evaluate a hypercube function and determine a respective hash based on the respective virtual record. The virtual records based on the respective hash values of the respective virtual records may be stored by the plurality of aggregators.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining a plurality of dimensions for evaluating a hypercube on a data model; assigning, to each of a plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions; traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate a respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions; providing, by the plurality of workers, the virtual records to each aggregator of a plurality of aggregators; evaluating, by the plurality of aggregators, the hypercube based on the respective virtual records; generating, by the plurality of aggregators, a respective hash value for each respective virtual record; and storing, by the plurality of aggregators, the virtual records based on the respective hash values of the respective virtual records.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a plurality of tables of the data model, wherein the plurality of tables comprise values for the plurality of dimensions.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate the respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions comprises extracting, by a worker, values for the plurality of dimensions from one or more tables of the plurality of tables in the respective partition assigned to the worker.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of dimensions for evaluating a hypercube comprises determining one or more expressions to be evaluated over one or more dimensions of the plurality of dimensions.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein assigning, to each of the plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions comprises: dividing, based on the one or more expressions, values of the plurality of dimensions into a plurality of partitions; and assigning, a respective partition of the plurality of partitions to each of the plurality of workers.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning, to each of the plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions comprises: determining a quantity of values for each dimension of a plurality of dimensions; dividing the quantity of values into a plurality of partitions; and assigning, a respective partition of the plurality of partitions to each of the plurality of workers.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning, to each of the plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions comprises: determining one or more timestamps associated with values of the plurality of dimensions; dividing the values of the plurality of dimensions into a plurality of partitions; and assigning, a respective partition of the plurality of partitions to each of the plurality of workers.
8. A method comprising: determining a plurality of dimensions for evaluating a hypercube on a data model; assigning, to each of a plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions; traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate a respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions; and providing, by the plurality of workers, the virtual records to each aggregator of a plurality of aggregators.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: evaluating, by the plurality of aggregators, the hypercube based on the respective virtual records; generating, by the plurality of aggregators, a respective hash value for each respective virtual record; and storing, by the plurality of aggregators, the virtual records based on the respective hash values of the respective virtual records.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein storing, by the plurality of aggregators, the virtual records based on the respective hash values of the respective virtual records comprises a consistent hashing strategy.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining a plurality of tables of the data model, wherein the plurality of tables comprise values for the plurality of dimensions.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate the respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions comprises extracting, by a worker, values for the plurality of dimensions from one or more tables of the plurality of tables in the respective partition assigned to the worker.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the plurality of dimensions for evaluating a hypercube comprises determining one or more expressions to be evaluated over one or more dimensions of the plurality of dimensions.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein assigning, to each of the plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions comprises: dividing, based on the one or more expressions, values of the plurality of dimensions into a plurality of partitions; and assigning, a respective partition of the plurality of partitions to each of the plurality of workers.
15. A method comprising: receiving, by each aggregator of a plurality of aggregators, a respective virtual record; evaluating, by the plurality of aggregators, a hypercube based on the respective virtual records; generating, by the plurality of aggregators, a respective hash value for each respective virtual record; and storing, by the plurality of aggregators, the virtual records based on the respective hash values of the respective virtual records.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining a plurality of dimensions for evaluating the hypercube on a data model; assigning, to each of a plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions; traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate a respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions; and providing, by the plurality of workers, the virtual records to each aggregator of the plurality of aggregators.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining a plurality of tables of the data model, wherein the plurality of tables comprise values for the plurality of dimensions.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein traversing, in parallel, by each of the plurality of workers, the respective partitions of the data model to generate the respective virtual record for each of the respective partitions comprises extracting, by a worker, values for the plurality of dimensions from one or more tables of the plurality of tables in the respective partition assigned to the worker.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the plurality of dimensions for evaluating a hypercube comprises determining one or more expressions to be evaluated over one or more dimensions of the plurality of dimensions.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein assigning, to each of the plurality of workers, a respective partition of the data model based on the plurality of dimensions comprises: dividing, based on the one or more expressions, values of the plurality of dimensions into a plurality of partitions; and assigning, a respective partition of the plurality of partitions to each of the plurality of workers.
</claims>
</document>
