<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/25,G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNOWFLAKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAGEVILLE, BENOIT
LANGSETH, JUSTIN
KLEINERMAN, CHRISTIAN
KRISHNAN, PRASANNA
GLICKMAN, MATTHEW J.
CHU, PUI KEI JOHNSTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70461486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCESSING LISTINGS IN A DATA EXCHANGE
</title>

<abstract>
A data warehouse storing databases for a plurality of users, including service providers hosting data for other users of the data warehouse may implement a data exchange. The data warehouse to verify identity of users and execute instructions with respect to databases of the data warehouse.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: creating a listing in an exchange, the listing referencing a first database of a plurality of databases; in response to receiving a request from a user to access the listing: filtering, by a processor, data of the first database based on access controls of the listing to generate filtered data of the first database; and creating a reference database including the filtered data of the first database; and adding a reference to the reference database to a set of consumed data shares accessible by the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein queries directed by the user to the first database are processed using the reference database.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising modifying the access controls of the listing to reference an identifier of the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein queries directed by the user to the first database are processed without creating a copy of the first database, and wherein creating a reference database comprises: creating a view based on an entitlement table associated with the identifier of the user, wherein the entitlement table indicates portions of the first database accessible by the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein filtering data of the first database comprises filtering data from the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table based on the access controls of the listing.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein creating the view comprises: performing a join of the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table, such that the view includes the filtered data of the first database.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request to browse the exchange from the user; verifying that the user is permitted to view the listing according to access controls of the listing; and in response to verifying that the user is permitted to view the listing, presenting a representation of the listing to the user.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving metadata for the listing, the metadata describing the first database, wherein presenting a representation of the listing comprises displaying at least a portion of the metadata.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: verifying that the metadata is accurate with respect to the first database prior to adding the listing to the exchange.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting an interface to the user to provide authentication information; receiving the authentication information from the user through the interface; forwarding the authentication information to a service module corresponding to the first database; and receiving verification that the user is permitted to access the first database from the service module.
11. A system comprising: a memory; and a processor, operatively coupled to the memory, the processor to: create a listing in an exchange, the listing referencing a first database of a plurality of databases; in response to receiving a request from a user to access the listing: filter data of the first database based on access controls of the listing to generate filtered data of the first database; and create a reference database including the filtered data of the first database; and add a reference to the reference database to a set of consumed data shares accessible by the user.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor processes queries directed by the user to the first database using the reference database.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further to: modify the access controls of the listing to reference an identifier of the user.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor processes queries directed by the user to the first database without creating a copy of the first database, and wherein to create a reference database the processor is to: create a view based on an entitlement table associated with the identifier of the user, wherein the entitlement table indicates portions of the first database accessible by the user.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein to filter data of the first database, the processor is to filter data from the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table based on the access controls of the listing.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein to create the view the processor is to: perform a join of the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table, such that the view includes the filtered data of the first database.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further to: receive a request to browse the exchange from the user; verify that the user is permitted to view the listing according to access controls of the listing; and in response to verifying that the user is permitted to view the listing, present a representation of the listing to the user.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further to: receive metadata for the listing, the metadata describing the first database, wherein to present a representation of the listing the processor is to display at least a portion of the metadata.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further to: verify that the metadata is accurate with respect to the first database prior to adding the listing to the exchange.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further to: present an interface to the user to provide authentication information; receive the authentication information from the user through the interface; forward the authentication information to a service module corresponding to the first database; and receive verification that the user is permitted to access the first database from the service module.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor cause the processor to: create a listing in an exchange, the listing referencing a first database of a plurality of databases; in response to receiving a request from a user to access the listing: filter, by the processor, data of the first database based on access controls of the listing to generate filtered data of the first database; and create a reference database including the filtered data of the first database; and add a reference to the reference database to a set of consumed data shares accessible by the user.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the processor processes queries directed by the user to the first database using the reference database.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the processor is further to: modify the access controls of the listing to reference an identifier of the user.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the processor processes queries directed by the user to the first database without creating a copy of the first database, and wherein to create a reference database the processor is to: create a view based on an entitlement table associated with the identifier of the user, wherein the entitlement table indicates portions of the first database accessible by the user.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 24, wherein to filter data of the first database, the processor is to filter data from the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table based on the access controls of the listing.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein to create the view the processor is to: perform a join of the portions of the first database indicated by the entitlement table, such that the view includes the filtered data of the first database.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the processor is further to: receive a request to browse the exchange from the user; verify that the user is permitted to view the listing according to access controls of the listing; and in response to verifying that the user is permitted to view the listing, present a representation of the listing to the user.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 27, wherein the processor is further to: receive metadata for the listing, the metadata describing the first database, wherein to present a representation of the listing the processor is to display at least a portion of the metadata.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein the processor is further to: verify that the metadata is accurate with respect to the first database prior to adding the listing to the exchange.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the processor is further to: present an interface to the user to provide authentication information; receive the authentication information from the user through the interface; forward the authentication information to a service module corresponding to the first database; and receive verification that the user is permitted to access the first database from the service module.
</claims>
</document>
