<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/20,G06T7/80,H04N17/00,H04W4/029,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM CRUISE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN, ZHICHANG
HEW, JUN-WEI
CADIEN, ADAM
LAU, HAVEN
SEMANSKY, NICK
Rohatgi, Ankit
Lau, Zhi Yuan Sherwin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71994208
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROL OF DYNAMIC SCENE MOTION BY VEHICLE BASED ON VEHICLE SENSOR CAPTURE
</title>

<abstract>
Sensors coupled to a vehicle are calibrated using a dynamic scene with sensor targets around a motorized turntable that rotates the vehicle to different orientations. The sensors capture data at each orientation along the rotation. The vehicle's computer identifies representations of the sensor targets within the data captured by the sensors, and calibrates the sensor based on these representations. The motorized turntable may confirm that rotation has stopped to the vehicle to trigger sensor capture, and the vehicle may communicate completion of sensor capture at an orientation to the motorized turntable to trigger further rotation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for vehicle sensor calibration, the system comprising: a motor connector coupled to a motor, the motor configured to rotate a platform of a turntable about a base of the turntable in response to activation of the motor through the motor connector; a communication interface; a memory storing instructions; and a processor that executes the instructions, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to: receive a vehicle presence signal, the vehicle presence signal indicating receipt of a vehicle onto the platform of the turntable, activate the motor through the motor connector automatically in response to receipt of the vehicle presence signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about the base from a first orientation to a second orientation, receive a sensor capture confirmation signal from a vehicle computing system associated with the vehicle via the communication interface while the vehicle is on the platform and while the platform is stationary in the second orientation relative to the base, wherein the sensor capture confirmation signal indicates that one or more sensors associated with the vehicle have captured sensor calibration data corresponding to the second orientation, and activate the motor through the motor connector automatically in response to receipt of the sensor capture confirmation signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about the base from the second orientation to a third orientation.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pressure sensor coupled to the turntable, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from the pressure sensor in response to the pressure sensor detecting pressure from the vehicle on the platform of the turntable.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pressure sensor coupled to the turntable, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from the pressure sensor in response to the pressure sensor detecting pressure from the vehicle on a guide rail of the turntable.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from the vehicle computing system, wherein the vehicle presence signal is based on a position of the vehicle that the vehicle computing system determines based on one or more positioning signals received by a positioning receiver associated with the vehicle.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from a surveying system, wherein the vehicle presence signal is based on one or more sensor datasets captured by the surveying system that depict the vehicle on the platform of the turntable, the one or more sensor datasets having been captured by at least one of a camera of the surveying system and a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) sensor of the surveying system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein receipt of the vehicle presence signal indicates that the vehicle is in a specific position on the platform.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication interface is a wireless communication interface.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to also: deactivate the motor through the motor connector automatically after activating the motor and before receiving the sensor capture confirmation signal so that the platform stops rotating about the base at the second orientation.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to also: send a rotation stop signal to the vehicle computing system via the communication interface before receiving the sensor capture confirmation signal, the rotation stop signal indicating that the platform has stopped rotating about the base following deactivation of the motor.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to also: deactivate the motor through the motor connector automatically after activating the motor and after receiving the sensor capture confirmation signal so that the platform stops rotating about the base at the third orientation.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the third orientation orients a side of the vehicle toward an unoccluded exit from the platform, the side of the vehicle being one of a front side of the vehicle or a rear side of the vehicle.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to also: send a rotation stop signal to the vehicle computing system via the communication interface after receiving the sensor capture confirmation signal, the rotation stop signal indicating that the platform has stopped rotating about the base following deactivation of the motor.
13. A method for vehicle sensor calibration, the method comprising: receiving a vehicle presence signal, the vehicle presence signal indicating receipt of a vehicle onto a platform of a turntable; activating a motor automatically in response to receipt of the vehicle presence signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about a base of the turntable from a first orientation to a second orientation; receiving a sensor capture confirmation signal from a vehicle computing system associated with the vehicle while the vehicle is on the platform and while the platform is stationary in the second orientation, wherein the sensor capture confirmation signal indicates that one or more sensors associated with the vehicle have captured sensor calibration data corresponding to the second orientation; and activating the motor automatically in response to receipt of the sensor capture confirmation signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about the base from the second orientation to a third orientation.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from a pressure sensor coupled to the turntable in response to the pressure sensor detecting pressure from the vehicle on the platform of the turntable.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from a pressure sensor coupled to the turntable in response to the pressure sensor detecting pressure from the vehicle on a guide rail of the turntable.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from the vehicle computing system, wherein the vehicle presence signal is based on a position of the vehicle that the vehicle computing system determines based on one or more positioning signals received by a positioning receiver associated with the vehicle.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the vehicle presence signal is received from a surveying system, wherein the vehicle presence signal is based on one or more sensor datasets captured by the surveying system that depict the vehicle on the platform of the turntable, the one or more sensor datasets having been captured by at least one of a camera of the surveying system and a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) sensor of the surveying system.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein receipt of the vehicle presence signal indicates that the vehicle is in a specific position on the platform.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the sensor capture confirmation signal is received wirelessly from the vehicle computing system.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having embodied thereon a program, wherein the program is executable by a processor to perform a method of vehicle sensor calibration, the method comprising: receiving a vehicle presence signal, the vehicle presence signal indicating receipt of a vehicle onto a platform of a turntable; activating a motor automatically in response to receipt of the vehicle presence signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about a base of the turntable from a first orientation to a second orientation; receiving a sensor capture confirmation signal from a vehicle computing system associated with the vehicle while the vehicle is on the platform and while the platform is stationary in the second orientation, wherein the sensor capture confirmation signal indicates that one or more sensors associated with the vehicle have captured sensor calibration data corresponding to the second orientation; and activating the motor automatically in response to receipt of the sensor capture confirmation signal and while the vehicle is on the platform, thereby rotating the platform about the base from the second orientation to a third orientation.
</claims>
</document>
