<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G08G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CUNNINGHAM, RYAN
Hung, Jane Yen
Swaintek, Stanley
Rostamzadeh, Alireza
Goyal, Rohit
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71950701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TIME VARYING LOUDNESS PREDICTION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods and systems for predicting time varying loudness in a geographic region. Training data, including noise information, weather information, and traffic information is collected from a plurality of sensors located in a plurality of geographic regions. The information is collected during multiple time periods. The noise information includes time varying loudness. Static features of the geographic regions are also defined and included in the training data. The static and time varying dynamic features train a model. The model is used predict time varying loudness within a different region and at a time later than times the training data is collected. The predicted loudness levels are utilized, in some aspects, to determine a route for an aircraft.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system, comprising: hardware processing circuitry; one or more hardware memories storing instructions that when executed configure the hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving measurements of dynamic feature data for a geographic region; determining static features for the geographic region; and generating a predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region during a defined time period using a model, the model trained on training data including historical measurements of the dynamic feature data for a plurality of regions over a plurality of training time periods and static features of the plurality of regions, wherein the geographic region is absent from the plurality of regions, wherein the defined time period occurs after the plurality of training time periods.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating of the predicted background noise loudness predicts the background noise loudness at a particular time of day and a particular date within the defined time period, and the historical measurements of the dynamic feature data are correlated with a time of day and a date of the historical measurements.
3. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising determining a route for an aircraft based on the predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region.
4. The system of claim 3, the operations further comprising: predicting a first background noise loudness in a first region during a time period based on the model; predicting a second background noise loudness in a second region during the time period based on the model; determining the first background noise loudness is higher than the second background noise loudness, and routing the aircraft through the first region during the time period in response to the determination.
5. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: generating, based on a model and for each of a plurality of regions in a map, a predicted background noise loudness of the respective region; identifying an origin and destination of an aircraft; identifying a plurality of routes from the origin to the destination, each of the plurality of routes including at least one of the plurality of regions in the map; comparing the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a first route of the plurality of routes to the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a second route of the plurality of routes; selecting the first route or the second route based on the comparison; and routing an aerial vehicle over the selected route.
6. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the first route; and aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the second route, wherein the selection of the first route or the second route is based on the first aggregating and the second aggregating.
7. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: determining a minimum predicted background noise loudness along the selected route; comparing the minimum predicted background noise loudness to a noise threshold; and determining an altitude for the aircraft along the selected route to be above a predefined altitude in response to the minimum predicted background noise loudness being below the noise threshold.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed configure hardware processing circuitry to perform operations comprising: receiving measurements of dynamic feature data for a geographic region; determining static features for the geographic region; and generating a predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region during a defined time period using a model, the model trained on training data including historical measurements of the dynamic feature data for a plurality of regions over a plurality of training time periods and static features of the plurality of regions, wherein the geographic region is absent from the plurality of regions, wherein the defined time period occurs after the plurality of training time periods.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising determining a route for an aircraft based on the predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, the operations further comprising: predicting a first background noise loudness in a first region during a time period based on the model; predicting a second background noise loudness in a second region during the time period based on the model; determining the first background noise loudness is higher than the second background noise loudness, and routing the aircraft through the first region during the time period in response to the determination.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising: generating, based on a model and for each of a plurality of regions in a map, a predicted background noise loudness of the respective region; identifying an origin and destination of an aircraft; identifying a plurality of routes from the origin to the destination, each of the plurality of routes including at least one of the plurality of regions in the map; comparing the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a first route of the plurality of routes to the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a second route of the plurality of routes; selecting the first route or the second route based on the comparison; and routing an aerial vehicle over the selected route.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the first route; and aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the second route, wherein the selection of the first route or the second route is based on the first aggregating and the second aggregating.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: determining a minimum predicted background noise loudness along the selected route; comparing the minimum predicted background noise loudness to a noise threshold; and determining an altitude for the aircraft along the selected route to be above a predefined altitude in response to the minimum predicted background noise loudness being below the noise threshold.
14. A method performed by hardware processing circuitry, comprising: receiving measurements of dynamic feature data for a geographic region; determining static features for the geographic region; and generating a predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region during a defined time period using a model, the model trained on training data including historical measurements of the dynamic feature data for a plurality of regions over a plurality of training time periods and static features of the plurality of regions, wherein the geographic region is absent from the plurality of regions, wherein the defined time period occurs after the plurality of training time periods.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the generating of the predicted background noise loudness predicts the background noise loudness at a particular time of day and a particular date within the defined time period, and the historical measurements of the dynamic feature data are correlated with a time of day and a date of the historical measurements.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining a route for an aircraft based on the predicted background noise loudness in the geographic region.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: predicting a first background noise loudness in a first region during a time period based on the model; predicting a second background noise loudness in a second region during the time period based on the model; determining the first background noise loudness is higher than the second background noise loudness, and routing the aircraft through the first region during the time period in response to the determination.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: generating, based on a model and for each of a plurality of regions in a map, a predicted background noise loudness of the respective region; identifying an origin and destination of an aircraft; identifying a plurality of routes from the origin to the destination, each of the plurality of routes including at least one of the plurality of regions in the map; comparing the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a first route of the plurality of routes to the predicted background noise loudness of the at least one of the plurality of regions included in a second route of the plurality of routes; selecting the first route or the second route based on the comparison; and routing an aerial vehicle over the selected route.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the first route; and aggregating predicted background noise loudness of regions included in the second route, wherein the selection of the first route or the second route is based on the first aggregating and the second aggregating.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining a minimum predicted background noise loudness along the selected route; comparing the minimum predicted background noise loudness to a noise threshold; and determining an altitude for the aircraft along the selected route to be above a predefined altitude in response to the minimum predicted background noise loudness being below the noise threshold.
</claims>
</document>
