<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/06,G01S17/89,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREWINGTON, BRIAN EDMOND
BELMON, STEPHANE
COOPER, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59702805
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Need-Sensitive Image And Location Capture System And Method
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides for a method of controlling one or more sensors on a moving vehicle that is executable by one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices may detect a first surface at a first location and a second surface at a second location using the one or more sensors. The second surface may be classified as a target of interest. Then the one or more computing devices may determine one or more timing characteristics of the one or more sensors based on a pose or motion of the one or more sensors relative to the first location of the first surface and the second location of the second surface. Then, the one or more computing devices may control the one or more sensors to capture data according to the determined one or more timing characteristics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling one or more sensors on a moving vehicle to determine information relating to surroundings of the vehicle, comprising: identifying, by one or more computing devices, one or more targets of interest; determining target information using the one or more computing devices, the target information comprising information relating to the identified one or more targets of interest; determining, by the one or more computing devices, one or more timing characteristics for capturing data relating to the one or more targets of interest, the one or more timing characteristics being determined based on the target information and a predetermined set of rules relating to information need; and controlling, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more sensors to capture data relating to the one or more targets of interest based on the one or more determined timing characteristics.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: identifying one or more targets of interest comprises identifying first and second targets of interest determining one or more timing characteristics comprises: determining a first rate of capture for capturing data relating to the first target of interest; and determining a second rate of capture for capturing data relating to the second target of interest, and capturing data relating to the one or more targets of interest based on the one or more determined timing characteristics comprises capturing a first dataset relating to the first target of interest at the first rate of capture and capturing a second dataset relating to the second target of interest at the second rate of capture.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining target information comprises determining a first distance from a vehicle location to the first target of interest, and determining a second distance from the vehicle location to the second target of interest, wherein the first rate of capture is determined based on the first distance and the second rate of capture is determined based on the second distance.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data relating to the one or more targets of interest comprises controlling a first sensor to capture the first dataset relating to the first target of interest and controlling a second sensor to capture the second dataset relating to the second target of interest.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: determining the first rate of capture comprises determining a first frame rate for capturing the first target of interest; determining the second rate of capture comprises determining a second frame rate for capturing the second target of interest, the second frame rate being different to the first frame rate, the first sensor comprises a first visual sensor and the second sensor comprises a second visual sensor, controlling the first sensor to capture the first dataset comprises controlling the first visual sensor to capture visual data relating to the first target of interest, at the first frame rate; controlling the second sensor to capture the second dataset comprises controlling the second visual sensor to capture visual data relating to the second target of interest, at the second frame rate.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the first and second targets of interest respectively comprise first and second oppositely-located facades.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: determining target information comprises determining if an occluder is or will be located between the vehicle and a target of interest; determining one or more timing characteristics for capturing data comprises determining the timing at which data should be captured by a sensor so that at least part of the occluder is not captured by the sensor; and controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling the sensor to capture data according to the determined timing.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more timing characteristics are determined based also on a speed of the moving vehicle.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a map or 3D model of captured targets of interest, and determining one or more targets of interest that still need to be captured using the map or 3D model.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether data captured by the one or more sensors relates to a target of interest, and discarding at least some data which is determined not to relate to a target of interest.
11. A system comprising: one or more sensors; one or more computing devices; and a memory storing computer-readable instructions, which when executed by the one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to: identify one or more targets of interest; determine target information using the one or more computing devices, the target information comprising information relating to the identified one or more targets of interest; determine one or more timing characteristics for capturing data relating to the one or more targets of interest, the one or more timing characteristics being determined based on the target information and a predetermined set of rules relating to information need; and control the one or more sensors to capture data relating to the one or more targets of interest based on the one or more determined timing characteristics.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: identifying one or more targets of interest comprises identifying first and second targets of interest determining one or more timing characteristics comprises: determining a first rate of capture for capturing data relating to the first target of interest; and determining a second rate of capture for capturing data relating to the second target of interest, and capturing data relating to the one or more targets of interest based on the one or more determined timing characteristics comprises capturing a first dataset relating to the first target of interest at the first rate of capture and capturing a second dataset relating to the second target of interest at the second rate of capture.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein determining target information comprises determining a first distance from a vehicle location to the first target of interest, and determining a second distance from the vehicle location to the second target of interest, wherein the first rate of capture is determined based on the first distance and the second rate of capture is determined based on the second distance.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data relating to the one or more targets of interest comprises controlling a first sensor to capture the first dataset relating to the first target of interest and controlling a second sensor to capture the second dataset relating to the second target of interest.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein: determining the first rate of capture comprises determining a first frame rate for capturing the first target of interest; determining the second rate of capture comprises determining a second frame rate for capturing the second target of interest, the second frame rate being different to the first frame rate, the first sensor comprises a first visual sensor and the second sensor comprises a second visual sensor, controlling the first sensor to capture the first dataset comprises controlling the first visual sensor to capture visual data relating to the first target of interest, at the first frame rate; controlling the second sensor to capture the second dataset comprises controlling the second visual sensor to capture visual data relating to the second target of interest, at the second frame rate.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the first and second targets of interest respectively comprise first and second oppositely-located facades.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein: determining target information comprises determining if an occluder is or will be located between the vehicle and a target of interest; determining one or more timing characteristics for capturing data comprises determining the timing at which data should be captured by a sensor so that at least part of the occluder is not captured by the sensor; and controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling the sensor to capture data according to the determined timing.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more timing characteristics are determined based also on a speed of the moving vehicle.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the one or more computing devices, further cause the one or more computing devices to: generate a map or 3D model of captured targets of interest, and determining one or more targets of interest that still need to be captured using the map or 3D model.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium on which computer-readable instructions are stored, the instructions, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform a method, the method comprising: identifying one or more targets of interest; determining target information, the target information comprising information relating to the identified one or more targets of interest; determining one or more timing characteristics for capturing data relating to the one or more targets of interest, the one or more timing characteristics being determined based on the target information and a predetermined set of rules relating to information need; and controlling the one or more sensors to capture data relating to the one or more targets of interest based on the one or more determined timing characteristics.
</claims>
</document>
