<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/07,G06N99/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE HEALTHCARE BIO-SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PIZZI, VINCENT FRANCIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68426462
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STERILE PRODUCT INVENTORY AND INFORMATION CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus, systems, and methods for tracking and management of bioprocess and/or other sterile product inventory are disclosed. An example apparatus includes: a communication interface to receive a message from a radiofrequency identification circuit associated with a product via an antenna at a location; a keycode verifier to verify a keycode from the message as authentic and associated with the product; a certificate generator to provide, when the keycode is verified, a certificate for the product, the certificate to be sent from a cloud-based server to a local computing device at the location to enable use of the product; an inventory predictor to predict, based on an identification of the product and usage information for the product and/or the location, an exhaustion of the product at the location; an output generator to trigger an order of the product when the exhaustion of the product at the location is predicted.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A radiofrequency identification-driven inventory management apparatus comprising: a cloud-based server including a processor to implement at least: a communication interface to receive a first message from a radiofrequency identification circuit via an antenna at a first location, the first message to include a keycode to identify a disposable sterile product associated with the radiofrequency identification circuit; a keycode verifier to verify the keycode as authentic and associated with the product; a certificate generator to provide, when the keycode is verified as authentic and associated with the product, a certificate of quality for the product, the certificate to be sent from the cloud-based server in a second message to a local computing device at the first location to enable use of the product; an inventory predictor to predict, based on an identification of the product and usage information for at least one of the product or the first location, an exhaustion of the product at the first location; and an output generator to trigger an order of the product when the exhaustion of the product at the first location is predicted.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the keycode is to be formed from a serial number embedded in the radiofrequency identification circuit.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the certificate generator is to provide the certificate of quality to a computing device at the first location.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inventory predictor is to include a digital twin of the first location to model operation of the first location and use of the product at the first location.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the inventory predictor is to include a machine learning model to process information regarding the product and the first location to generate a prediction of timing for exhaustion of the product at the first location.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cloud-based server is to be implemented on at least one of a management cloud system or an inventory cloud.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the radiofrequency identification circuit is a gamma radiation-resistant circuit to be integrated with a container holding the product.
8. A computer-readable storage medium including instructions which, when executed, cause at least one processor to at least: receive a first message from a radiofrequency identification circuit via an antenna at a first location, the first message to include a keycode to identify a disposable sterile product associated with the radiofrequency identification circuit; verify the keycode as authentic and associated with the product; provide, when the keycode is verified as authentic and associated with the product, a certificate of quality for the product, the certificate to be sent from the cloud-based server in a second message to a local computing device at the first location to enable use of the product; predict, based on an identification of the product and usage information for at least one of the product or the first location, an exhaustion of the product at the first location; and trigger an order of the product when the exhaustion of the product at the first location is predicted.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the keycode is to be formed from a serial number embedded in the radiofrequency identification circuit.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the certificate of quality is to be provided to a computing device at the first location.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein predicting exhaustion of the product at the first location is to include modeling, using a digital twin of the first location, operation of the first location and use of the product at the first location.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein predicting exhaustion of the product at the first location is to include processing, using a machine learning model, information regarding the product and the first location to generate a prediction of timing for exhaustion of the product at the first location.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is to be implemented on at least one of a management cloud system or an inventory cloud.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the radiofrequency identification circuit is a gamma radiation-resistant circuit to be integrated with a container holding the product.
15. A method comprising: receiving, by executing an instruction using at least one processor, a first message from a radiofrequency identification circuit via an antenna at a first location, the first message to include a keycode to identify a disposable sterile product associated with the radiofrequency identification circuit; verifying, by executing an instruction using the at least one processor, the keycode as authentic and associated with the product; providing, by executing an instruction using the at least one processor when the keycode is verified as authentic and associated with the product, a certificate of quality for the product, the certificate to be sent from the cloud-based server in a second message to a local computing device at the first location to enable use of the product; predict, based on an identification of the product and usage information for at least one of the product or the first location by executing an instruction using the at least one processor, an exhaustion of the product at the first location; and triggering, by executing an instruction using the at least one processor, an order of the product when the exhaustion of the product at the first location is predicted.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the keycode is to be formed from a serial number embedded in the radiofrequency identification circuit.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the certificate of quality is to be provided to a computing device at the first location.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein predicting exhaustion of the product at the first location is to include modeling, using a digital twin of the first location, operation of the first location and use of the product at the first location.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein predicting exhaustion of the product at the first location is to include processing, using a machine learning model, information regarding the product and the first location to generate a prediction of timing for exhaustion of the product at the first location.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is to be implemented on at least one of a management cloud system or an inventory cloud.
</claims>
</document>
