<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXXONMOBIL RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Shi, Eric S.
LaFleur, Coila F.
Khoury, George A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70296109
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC QUALITY CONTROL IN PETROCHEMICAL, CHEMICAL, AND PHARMACEUTICAL MANUFACTURING PROCESSES
</title>

<abstract>
A dynamic quality control method for a chemical manufacturing process to maintain one or more products within quality and/or technical specification(s) can include measuring properties of feed-stock, intermediates, and the products to yield respective quality vectors; assigning a node specification to each of the feed-stocks, the intermediates, and the products, wherein the node specifications for the feed-stocks and the intermediates are dynamic node specifications; calculating conversion tensors to correlate any pairs of node specifications; comparing the quality vectors to the corresponding dynamic node specification(s); identifying a quality deficit and/or a quality surplus associated with each of the quality vectors based on the comparison to the corresponding dynamic node specification(s); and compensating for the quality deficit and/or the quality surplus by (A) adjusting conditions of the manufacturing process and/or (B) compensating the quality deficits with the quality surpluses via material transfer and re-blending processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A dynamic quality control method for a manufacturing process to maintain one or more products within respective quality and/or technical specification(s), wherein the manufacturing process converts one or more feed-stocks into one or more products via one or more intermediates, the method comprising: measuring properties of the feed-stock, the intermediates, and the products to yield their respective quality vectors; assigning a node specification to each of the feed-stocks, the intermediates, and the products, wherein the node specifications for each of the feed-stocks and the intermediates are dynamic node specifications; calculating conversion tensors to correlate any pairs of node specifications; comparing one or more quality vectors to the corresponding dynamic node specification(s); identifying a quality deficit and/or a quality surplus associated with each of the one or more quality vectors based on the comparison to the corresponding dynamic node specification; and compensating for the quality deficit and/or the quality surplus by (A) adjusting conditions of the manufacturing process in response to the quality deficit and/or the quality surplus and/or (B) compensating quality deficits with corresponding quality surpluses via material transfer and re-blending processes.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating conversion tensors and/or other associated tensors applies to one or more machine learning techniques.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more of the node specifications include a property selected from the group consisting of: concentrations of selected individual components in the composition, intended purity levels of products, level of contaminants, viscosity, lubricity, freeze point, melting point, flash point, boiling point, energy content, heat value, octane number, cetane number, color, odor, melt index, flow rate index, impact strength, tensile strength, elongation at break, molecular weight characteristics, chirality, and the like, and any combination thereof.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the conditions of the manufacturing process include a condition selected from the group consisting of: temperature, temperature distribution across zones of a manufacturing unit, pressure, distribution of pressure across zones of a manufacturing unit, material flow rate, split ratios, reactant stoichiometric ratios, reactor efficiency, mixing and separation efficiencies, catalytic contact time, catalyst activity, and any combination thereof.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the manufacturing process is pharmaceutical manufacturing, commodity chemical manufacturing, specialty chemical manufacturing, petrochemical manufacturing, petroleum refining, or lubricant manufacturing.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: performing iterative-computations for adjusting the conditions of the manufacturing process to account for real-time changes in the dynamic node specifications and the quality vectors to improve efficacy and/or efficiency of the manufacturing process; and updating the dynamic node specifications and conversion tensors and/or other associated tensors based on the iterative-computations.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein adjusting the conditions of the manufacturing process is further in response to reducing a manufacturing cost associated with the manufacturing process.
8. A system for providing a manufacturing process to maintain one or more products within a static and/or dynamic quality specification, wherein the manufacturing process converts one or more feed-stocks into one or more products via one or more intermediates, the system comprising: a processor; a non-transitory machine readable medium that stores machine-readable instructions for execution by the processor, the machine-readable instructions comprising: measuring properties of the feed-stock, the intermediates, and the products to yield one or more quality vectors; assigning a node specification to each of the feed-stocks, the intermediates, and the products, wherein the node specifications for each of the feed-stocks and the intermediates are dynamic node specifications; calculating conversion tensors to correlate any pairs of node specifications; comparing one or more quality vectors to the corresponding dynamic node specification(s); identifying a quality deficit and/or a quality surplus associated with each of the one or more quality vectors based on the comparison to the corresponding dynamic node specification(s); and compensating for the quality deficit and/or the quality surplus by (A) adjusting conditions of the manufacturing process in response to the quality deficit and/or the quality surplus and/or (B) compensating quality deficits with corresponding quality surpluses via material transfer and re-blending processes.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the instruction of calculating conversion tensors and/or other associated tensors applies to one or more machine learning techniques.
10. The system according to claim 8, wherein one or more of the node specifications include a property selected from the group consisting of: concentrations of selected individual components in the composition, intended purity levels of products, level of contaminants, density viscosity, lubricity, freeze point, melting point, flash point, boiling point, energy content, heat value, octane number, cetane number, color, odor, melt index, flow rate index, impact strength, tensile strength, elongation at break, molecular weight characteristics, chirality, and the like, and any combination thereof.
11. The system according to claim 8, wherein the conditions of the manufacturing process include a condition selected from the group consisting of: temperature, temperature distribution across zones of a manufacturing unit, pressure, distribution of pressure across zones of a manufacturing unit, material flow rate, split ratios, reactant stoichiometric ratios, reactor efficiency, mixing and separation efficiencies, catalytic contact time, catalyst activity, and any combination thereof.
12. The system according to claim 8, wherein the chemical manufacturing process is pharmaceutical manufacturing, commodity chemical manufacturing, specialty chemical manufacturing, petrochemical manufacturing, petroleum refining, or lubricant manufacturing.
13. The system according to claim 8, wherein the machine-readable instructions further comprise: perform iterative-computations for adjusting the conditions of the manufacturing process to account for real-time changes in the dynamic node specifications and the quality vectors to improve an efficacy and/or an efficiency of the manufacturing process; and update the dynamic node specifications and conversion tensors and/or other associated tensors based on the iterative-computations.
14. The system according to claim 8, wherein adjusting the conditions of the manufacturing process is further in response to reducing a manufacturing cost associated with the manufacturing process.
</claims>
</document>
