<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/63,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G06N3/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TECHNION - ISRAEL INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANIAL, LOAI
DANIEL, RAMEZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64741971
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DNA-BASED NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
An analog signal processing circuit comprising: a first promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first output molecule, wherein said promoter is responsive to a cooperative input signal comprising at least two cooperative inputs, and wherein expression of said at least two cooperative inputs is tunable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An analog signal processing circuit comprising: a first promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first output molecule, wherein said promoter is responsive to a cooperative input signal comprising at least two cooperative inputs, and wherein expression of said at least two cooperative inputs is tunable, optionally wherein the cooperativity of said at least two inputs is tunable.
2. (canceled)
3. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, wherein said promoter is a hybrid promoter comprising at least two regulator binding sites.
4. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 3, wherein a. at least one of said at least two regulator binding sites binds an activator and at least one of said at least two regulator binding sites binds a repressor, b. said at least two inputs bind to said at least two regulator binding sites, or wherein said at least two inputs bind to at least two regulators that bind to said at least two regulator binding sites; or c. said at least two regulatory bindings sites are a LuxR binding site and a LacI binding site, optionally wherein said at least two inputs are acyl-homoserine lactone (AHL) and isopropyl β-d-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG).
5. (canceled)
6. (canceled)
7. (canceled)
8. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a. a second promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding at least one of said cooperative inputs, wherein said second promoter comprises a binding site for said at least one of said cooperative inputs, optionally wherein said binding site in said second promoter comprises a modification that alters a binding affinity of said at least one cooperative input to said binding site relative to a binding affinity of said at least one cooperative input to an unmodified binding site; b. a third promoter operably linking to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a second output molecule, wherein said third promoter is responsive to said first output molecule, optionally wherein said third promoter comprises a pBAD promoter, and said first output molecule is araC protein; c. arabinose; d. a regulator sequence that regulates translation of said first output molecule and is located between said first promoter and said nucleic acid sequence encoding said first output molecule; optionally wherein said regulatory sequence is a riboswitch responsive to theophylline; and e. a regulatory sequence that regulates translation of said second output molecule and is located between said third promoter and said nucleic acid sequence encoding said second output molecule, optionally wherein said regulatory sequence is a riboswitch responsive to theophylline.
9. (canceled)
10. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, wherein a. a binding affinity to said first promoter of said at least two inputs, or said at least two regulators bound to said inputs, is tunable; b. said at least two cooperative inputs are at least two factors that share a common binding site and wherein said first promoter comprises said common binding site, optionally wherein said at least two factors that share a common binding site are a Sigma factor and an anti-Sigma factor; or c. said analog signal processing circuit further comprises said at least two factors than share a common binding site, or wherein said at least two cooperative inputs are Cas9 and a small guide RNA (sgRNA), optionally wherein said tunability of said Cas9 and said sgRNA is determined by mutating said sgRNA sequence to alter a binding affinity of said Cas9 to said sgRNA.
11. (canceled)
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, wherein said first promoter is responsive to a protein or protein complex consisting of more than one subunit, and wherein said at least two cooperative inputs are at least two of said subunits; wherein said protein consisting of more than one subunit is selected from: a. T7 RNA polymerase and said at least two cooperative inputs are an alpha-fragment subunit of T7 RNA polymerase, a sigma-fragment subunit of T7 RNA polymerase and a beta-core fragment subunit of T7 RNA polymerase, optionally further wherein the analog signal processing circuit further comprises a nucleic acid sequence coding for said alpha-fragment subunit, a nucleic acid sequence coding for said sigma-fragment subunit and a nucleic acid sequence coding for said beta-core fragment subunit, wherein said nucleic acid sequences coding for said T7 RNA polymerase subunits are operably linked to at least one promoter and optionally wherein said nucleic acid sequences coding for said T7 RNA polymerase subunits are operably linked to a plurality of promoters, wherein all three nucleic acid sequences are not linked to the same promoter and wherein the cooperativity of the inputs is determined by the binding affinities of said plurality of promoters; and b. Cas9.
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. (canceled)
20. (canceled)
21. (canceled)
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. (canceled)
25. (canceled)
26. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, wherein said first promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding a first output molecule further comprises a fourth promoter that transcribes in a direction opposite to a transcriptional direction of said first promoter, and wherein binding of at least one of said at least two cooperative inputs to said fourth promoter interferes with transcription from said first promoter.
27. An analog signal processing circuit comprising: a. a first tunable promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence coding for a DNA recombinase; b. a second constitutive promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence that when inverted codes for a first output molecule and wherein said nucleic acid sequence is flanked by recognition sites for said DNA recombinase; and c. decoy recognition sites for said DNA recombinase, wherein said decoy sites are within: i. a nucleic acid molecule comprising (a), ii. a nucleic acid molecule comprising (b), or iii. a third nucleic acid molecule.
28. The analog signal processing circuit of claim 27, wherein said tunable promoter comprises a Plux binding site, and is tunable by addition of AHL.
29. (canceled)
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. (canceled)
33. A cell comprising the analog signal processing circuit of claim 1.
34. A method for converting an analog signal into a digital output, comprising contacting the analog signal processing circuit of claim 1, with said at least two inputs and detecting said first output molecule, said second output molecule, or both thereby converting an analog signal into a digital output.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein said detecting comprises quantification of said output molecule.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein said digital output is either a positive or a negative output optionally wherein said method further comprises tuning a threshold for converting said analog input into a positive digital output wherein said tuning comprises at least one of: i. tuning expression of at least one of said at least two regulators; ii. tuning a binding efficiency of at least one of said at least two inputs to a binding site; iii. tuning a binding efficiency of at least one of said at least two regulators to a binding site; iv. adding a molecule that binds to said regulatory sequence, wherein said molecule that binds said regulatory sequence is theophylline; and v. adding a molecule that binds to said first output molecule and alters binding of said first output molecule to said third promoter, wherein said molecule that binds to said first output molecule is arabinose.
37. (canceled)
38. (canceled)
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon program instructions, the program instructions executable by the at least one hardware processor to execute a genetic-type machine learning algorithm configured for: receiving a sequence of inputs, wherein each of said inputs has an associated weight, operating a neural network to generate, as output, a weighted multiplication of said inputs, calculating an error value between said output and a target output, and adjusting the values of one or more of said weights based on said error value and a specified learning rate, wherein said adjusting is determined, at least in part, based on a log-linear gradient descent training rule.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein said hardware processor is a DNA-based processor.
43. The system of claim 41, wherein said algorithm is further configured to repeat iteratively said steps of operating, calculating, and adjusting, until said error value is less than a specified threshold.
44. The system of claim 41, wherein said neural network comprises a plurality of layers.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein said adjusting further comprises backpropagating said gradient descent through said plurality of layers, using the chain rule derivatives.
46. The system of claim 41, wherein said calculating comprises determining a mean square error value.
47. The system of claim 41, wherein said learning rate is an adaptive learning rate.
48. 48-61. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
