<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61B5/1455,A61B5/1477,G01J3/44,G01N21/65
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, WOO CHANG
PARK, YUN S.
CHANG, HO JUN
NAM, SUNG HYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67587626
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR ESTIMATING ANALYTE CONCENTRATION, AND APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR GENERATING ANALYTE CONCENTRATION ESTIMATION MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A apparatus for estimating concentration may include: a spectrum obtainer configured to obtain Raman spectra of an object; and a processor configured to extract, from the Raman spectra, at least one analyte spectrum related to an analyte and at least one non-analyte spectrum related to a biological component other than the analyte, and estimate concentration of the analyte based on a first area under a curve of the at least one analyte spectrum and a second area under a curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for estimating concentration, the apparatus comprising: a spectrum obtainer configured to obtain Raman spectra of an object; and a processor configured to: extract, from the Raman spectra, at least one analyte spectrum related to an analyte and at least one non-analyte spectrum related to a biological component other than the analyte, and estimate concentration of the analyte based on a first area under a curve of the at least one analyte spectrum and a second area under a curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the spectrum obtainer is further configured to receive the Raman spectra from an external device, or measure the Raman spectra by emitting light onto the object and receiving Raman-scattered light returning from the object.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the analyte is any one of glucose, triglyceride, urea, uric acid, lactate, protein, cholesterol or ethanol.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises: a spectrum extractor configured to extract the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum from the Raman spectra; a background signal remover configured to remove a background signal from the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum; an area calculator configured to calculate the first area under the curve the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and calculate the second area under the curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed; and a concentration estimator configured to estimate the concentration of the analyte based on the first area and the second area.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the spectrum extractor is further configured to extract a spectrum of a Raman band related to the analyte as the at least one analyte spectrum, and extract a spectrum of a Raman band related to the biological component other than the analyte as the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
6. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the analyte is glucose, and the spectrum extractor is further configured to: extract at least one of Raman band spectra at 911 cm−1, 1060 cm−1, and 1125 cm−1 as the at least one analyte spectrum, and extra at least one of Raman band spectra at 1003 cm−1 and 1450 cm−1 as the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the background signal remover is further configured to: generate a background line by connecting a starting point and an ending point of each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum in a straight line or a curved line, and remove the background signal by subtracting the generated background line from each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
8. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the concentration estimator is further configured to estimate the concentration of the analyte based on the first area of the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, the second area of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and a concentration estimation model.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the concentration estimation model defines a relationship between the first area of the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, the second area of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and the concentration of the analyte.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the concentration estimation model is generated by regression analysis or machine learning using a first reference area under a curve of a reference analyte spectrum, from which the background signal of the reference analyte spectrum is removed, a second reference area under a curve of a reference non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal of the reference non-analyte spectrum is removed, and a corresponding concentration of the analyte.
11. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the processor further comprises a preprocessor configured to remove noise from the Raman spectra.
12. An apparatus for generating a concentration estimation model, the apparatus comprising: a learning data collector configured to collect, as learning data, Raman spectra of an object and concentration information of an analyte corresponding to the Raman spectra; and a processor configured to: extract at least one analyte spectrum related to the analyte and at least one non-analyte spectrum related to a biological component other than the analyte from the Raman spectra, and generate the concentration estimation model based on a first area under a curve of the at least one analyte spectrum, a second area under a curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, and the concentration information of the analyte.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processor comprises: a spectrum extractor configured to extract the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum from the Raman spectra; a background signal remover configured to remove a background signal from the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum; an area calculator configured to calculate the first area under the of the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and the second area under the curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum from which the background signal is removed; and a model generator configured to generate the concentration estimation model by using the first area, the second area, and the concentration information as training data.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the analyte is glucose; and the spectrum extractor is further configured to: extract at least one of Raman band spectra at 911 cm−1, 1060 cm−1, and 1125 cm−1 as the at least one analyte spectrum, and extract at least one of Raman band spectra at 1003 cm−1 and 1450 cm−1 as the at east one non-analyte spectrum.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the background signal remover is further configured to: generate a background line by connecting a starting point and an ending point of each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum in a straight line or a curved line, and remove the background signal by subtracting the background line from each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor further comprises a concentration estimator configured to generate the concentration estimation model by regression analysis or machine learning using the first area of the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, the first area of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and the concentration information of the analyte.
17. A method for estimating concentration, the method comprising: obtaining Raman spectra of an object; extracting, from the Raman spectra, at least one analyte spectrum related to an analyte and at least one non-analyte spectrum related to a biological component other than the analyte; removing a background signal from the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum; calculating a first area under a curve the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and a second area under a curve of the at least one non-analyte spectrum from which the background signal is removed; and estimating a concentration of the analyte based on the first area and the second area.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the obtaining the Raman spectra comprises obtaining the Raman spectra by receiving the Raman spectra from an external device, or by measuring the Raman spectra by emitting light onto the object and receiving Raman-scattered light returning from the object.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the analyte is any one of glucose, triglyceride, urea, uric acid, lactate, protein, cholesterol, or ethanol.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the extracting the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum comprises extracting a spectrum of a Raman band related to the analyte as the at least one analyte spectrum, and extracting a spectrum of a Raman band related to the biological component other than the analyte as the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the analyte is glucose; and the extracting the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum comprises: extracting at least one of Raman band spectra at 911 cm−1, 1060 cm−1, and 1125 cm−1 as the at least one analyte spectrum, and extracting at least one of Raman band spectra at 1003 cm−1 and 1450 cm−1 as the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
22. The method of claim 17, wherein the removing the background signal comprises: generating a background line by connecting a starting point and an ending point of each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum in a straight line or a curved line, and removing the background signal by subtracting the background line from each of the at least one analyte spectrum and the at least one non-analyte spectrum.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein the estimating the concentration of the analyte comprises estimating the concentration of the analyte based on the first area of the at least one analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, the second area of the at least one non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal is removed, and a concentration estimation model.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the concentration estimation model is generated by regression analysis or machine learning using a first reference area under a curve of a reference analyte spectrum, from which the background signal of the reference analyte spectrum is removed, a second area under a curve of a reference non-analyte spectrum, from which the background signal of the reference non-analyte spectrum is removed, and a corresponding concentration of the analyte.
25. The method of claim 17, further comprising removing noise from the Raman spectra.
</claims>
</document>
