<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06F17/18,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANJO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRATTON, CHRISTIAN
NEWMAN, JOSHUA J.
PATTON, DAMIEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042593
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING EVENTS FROM A SIGNAL FEATURES MATRIX
</title>

<abstract>
The invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for detecting events from a signal features matrix. A two-dimensional signal evidence matrix is formed is populated with the plurality of signal pairings. Per signal pairing, a pairing probability is computed based on one or more of: (a) source diversity between the signals in the signal pairing, (b) pairing frequency indicating how often signal types corresponding to the signals in the signal pair are paired together, (c) pairing strength derived from a confidence associated with each signal in the signal pairing, (d) pairing time derived from a time associated with each signal in the signal pairing, or (e) pairing location derived from a location associated with each signal in the signal pairing. The plurality of pairing probabilities is aggregated into an aggregated probability. The real-world event is detected from evidence provided by the aggregated probability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing a number of signals that includes two or more signals; forming a two-dimensional signal evidence matrix, wherein each dimension of the two-dimensional signal evidence matrix equals at least the number of signals; forming a plurality of signal pairings, including pairing each signal in the plurality of signals with itself in a signal pairing and pairing each signal in the plurality of signals with every other signal in the plurality of signals in a signal pairing; populating the two-dimensional signal evidence matrix with the plurality of signal pairings; computing a plurality of pairing probabilities, including computing a pairing probability associated with each of the plurality of signal pairings, each of the plurality of pairing probabilities representing a likelihood that a corresponding signal pairing is indicative of a real-world event of an event type, including for each signal pairing: calculating the pairing probability based on one or more of: (a) a source diversity between the signals included in the signal pairing, (b) a signal pairing frequency indicating how often signal types corresponding to the signals in the signal pair are paired together, (c) a pairing strength derived from a confidence associated with each signal included in the signal pairing, (d) a pairing time derived from a time associated with each signal included in the signal pairing, or (e) a pairing location derived from a location associated with each signal included in the signal pairing; aggregating the plurality of pairing probabilities into an aggregated probability; and detecting the real-world event from evidence provided by the aggregated probability.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the real-world event comprises determining that the aggregated probability satisfies a probability threshold associated with the event type.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing a number of signals that includes two or more signals comprises accessing a number of normalized signals that includes two or more normalized signals.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein accessing a number of normalized signals that includes two or more normalized signals comprises accessing a number of TLC normalized signals that includes two or more TLC normalized signals.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the pairing probability comprises calculating the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity and one or more of: (b) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the pairing probability comprises calculating the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, and one or more of: (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the pairing probability comprises calculating the pairing probability based on: (c) the pairing strength and one or more of: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the pairing probability comprises calculating the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, and one or more of: (d) the pairing time or (e) the pairing location.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the pairing probability comprises calculating the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (h) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, and (e) the pairing location.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing a number of signals comprises accessing a number of signals selected from among: a social post with geographic content, a social post without geographic content, an image from a traffic camera feed, a 911 call, weather data, IoT device data, satellite data, satellite imagery, a sound clip from a listening device, data from air quality sensors, a sound clip from radio communication, crowd sourced traffic information, or crowd sourced road information.
11. A system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: access a number of signals that includes two or more signals; form a two-dimensional signal evidence matrix, wherein each dimension of the two-dimensional signal evidence matrix equals at least the number of signals; form a plurality of signal pairings, including pairing each signal in the plurality of signals with itself in a signal pairing and pairing each signal in the plurality of signals with every other signal in the plurality of signals in a signal pairing; populate the two-dimensional signal evidence matrix with the plurality of signal pairings; compute a plurality of pairing probabilities, including computing a pairing probability associated with each of the plurality of signal pairings, each of the plurality of pairing probabilities representing a likelihood that a corresponding signal pairing is indicative of a real-world event of an event type, including for each signal pairing: calculate the pairing probability based on one or more of: (a) a source diversity between the signals included in the signal pairing, (b) a signal pairing frequency indicating how often signal types corresponding to the signals in the signal pair are paired together, (c) a pairing strength derived from a confidence associated with each signal included in the signal pairing, (d) a pairing time derived from a time associated with each signal included in the signal pairing, or (e) a pairing location derived from a location associated with each signal included in the signal pairing; aggregate the plurality of pairing probabilities into an aggregated probability; and detect the real-world event from evidence provided by the aggregated probability.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to detect the real-world event comprise instructions configured to determine that the aggregated probability satisfies a probability threshold associated with the event type.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to access a number of signals that includes two or more signals comprise instructions configured to access a number of normalized signals that includes two or more normalized signals.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein instructions configured to access a number of normalized signals that includes two or more normalized signals comprise instructions configured to access a number of TLC normalized signals that includes two or more TLC normalized signals.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability comprise instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity and one or more of: (b) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability comprise instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, and one or more of: (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability comprises instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability based on: (c) the pairing strength and one or more of: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, (d) the pairing time, or (e) the pairing location.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability comprise instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, and one or more of: (d) the pairing time or (e) the pairing location.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability comprise instructions configured to calculate the pairing probability based on: (a) the source diversity, (b) the pairing frequency, (c) the pairing strength, (d) the pairing time, and (e) the pairing location.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions configured to access a number of signals comprise instructions configured to access a number of signals selected from among: a social post with geographic content, a social post without geographic content, an image from a traffic camera feed, a 911 call, weather data, IoT device data, satellite data, satellite imagery, a sound clip from a listening device, data from air quality sensors, a sound clip from radio communication, crowd sourced traffic information, or crowd sourced road information.
</claims>
</document>
