<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F9/451,G06F9/54,G06N20/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOUDJI, SOFIANE
VINEL, ANTOINE
BERGET, ERIK MARKUS
Maurer, Zachary D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73506628
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIRI REMINDERS FOUND IN APPS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to, among other things, generating reminders based on information from applications. For example, a first message may be received and a confirmation may be identified. Information that identifies an action to be performed and a trigger corresponding to the action can be detected from the first message and/or the confirmation. In some instances, a reminder may be generated based at least in part on the action and the trigger. An even corresponding to the trigger may then be detected, and the generated reminder may be presented based at least in part on the detection of the trigger.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a computing device, first textual information from a second computing device; determining, by the computing device, that the first textual information identifies a physical object and an action to be performed on the physical object; receiving, by the computing device, second textual information that is a response to the first textual information; determining, by the computing device, whether the response identifies a confirmation of the action to be performed on the physical object; identifying, by the computing device, whether the first textual information or the second textual information identifies a trigger comprising at least one of a time or a location; and in response to determining that the response identifies the confirmation of the action to be performed: automatically generating, by the computing device, a reminder object corresponding to the action to be performed; storing, by the computing device, the reminder object in a reminders application of the computing device; and presenting, by the computing device, a reminder notification that represents the reminder object upon detection of an event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the event comprises at least one of occurrence of the time, the computing device leaving the location, the computing device determining that a user is leaving the location, the computing device arriving at the location or the computing device determining that a user is arriving at the location.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a title for the reminder object based at least in part on at least one of the physical object, the action, or the trigger, and wherein the reminder notification includes the title.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting the reminder object in at least one of a reminders user interface or based at least in part on a determined time, detection of the computing device leaving a location, detection of the computing device or a user arriving at the location, or detection of the computing device or a user being within a threshold distance of the second computing device or a second user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the validation of the confirmation and the trigger comprises executing a decision engine to determine a confidence score for accuracy of the confirmation and the trigger.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the confirmation, the trigger, the physical object, and the action are determined based at least in part on a supervised machine learning model configured to analyze the first textual information and the second textual information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first textual information is associated with a first account that corresponds to the second device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the second textual information is received via an input device of the computing device and is associated with a second account that corresponds to the user.
9. A user device, comprising: a memory configured to store computer-executable instructions; and a processor configured to access the memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to at least: receive a first message from a second device, that identifies a physical object and an action; identify a confirmation of the first message at the user device; detect, from at least one of the first message or the confirmation, information that identifies an action to be performed and a trigger corresponding to the action; in response to identifying the confirmation and the action to be performed, automatically: automatically generate a reminder to be presented to a user of the user device based at least in part on the action and the trigger; storing the reminder in a reminders application of the user device; detect an event corresponding to the trigger; and present, on a display of the user device, a notification of the generated reminder corresponding to the action based at least in part on detection of the trigger.
10. The user device of claim 9, wherein the notification is presented without further confirmation after receiving the confirmation of the first message.
11. (canceled)
12. The user device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the computer-executable instructions to at least present an acceptance prompt in a user interface of the display, and wherein the user interface comprises a plurality of other reminders of the reminders application.
13. The user device of claim 12, wherein the detection of the event and the presentation of the notification are based at least in part on the storage of the reminder in the reminders application.
14. The user device of claim 12, wherein the plurality of other reminders comprise other unaccepted reminders.
15. The user device of claim 9, wherein the first message identifies an object upon which the action is to be performed.
16. The user device of claim 9, wherein the trigger identifies a time and date, an arrival location for the user device, or a departure location for the user device.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a user device, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the user device, text of a digital conversation that identifies an object, an action to be performed on the object, and a trigger corresponding to the object and the action; determining, based at least in part on the text, that at least a portion of the digital conversation comprises a confirmation; in response to determining that at least the portion of the digital conversation comprises the confirmation: automatically generating a reminder to be presented to a user of the user device based at least in part on the action and the trigger; and storing the reminder in a reminders application of the user device; detecting an event corresponding to the trigger; and presenting, on a display of the user device, a notification of the generated reminder corresponding to the action based at least in part on detection of the trigger.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the reminder is automatically generated further based at least in part on the action being identified on a whitelist of verbs.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the digital conversation is received via a messaging application of the user device.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the confirmation is determined by processing the text of the digital conversation using a machine learning model.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the reminder notification is presented without further confirmation after receiving the second textual information.
</claims>
</document>
