<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIWINSKY, DAVID SCOTT
BIAN, XIAO
BEWLAY, BERNARD
HAREL, STEPHANE
BOUCHARD, STEEVES
CANTIN, DAVID
KARIGIANNIS, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68426174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fluorescent penetrant inspection system and method
</title>

<abstract>
An inspection system includes one or more processors that obtain a first image of a work piece that has a fluorescent dye thereon in an ultraviolet (UV) light setting and a second image of the work piece in a visible light setting. The first and second images are generated by one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece. The one or more processors identify a candidate region of the first image based on a light characteristic of one or more pixels, and determine a corresponding candidate region of the second image that is at an analogous location as the candidate region of the first image. The one or more processors analyze both candidate regions to detect a potential defect on a surface of the work piece and a location of the potential defect relative to the surface of the work piece.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An inspection system comprising: one or more processors configured to obtain a first image of a work piece that has a fluorescent dye thereon in an ultraviolet (UV) light setting and a second image of the work piece in a visible light setting, the work piece being illuminated with an ultraviolet light in the UV light setting to cause the fluorescent dye to emit light and the work piece being illuminated with a visible light in the visible light setting to cause the work piece to reflect light, the first and second images being generated by one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece; wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify a candidate region of the first image based on a light characteristic of one or more pixels within the candidate region and to determine a corresponding candidate region of the second image that is at an analogous location as the candidate region of the first image, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to analyze both the candidate region of the first image and the corresponding candidate region of the second image to detect a potential defect on a surface of the work piece and a location of the potential defect relative to the surface of the work piece.
2. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to analyze the candidate regions of the first and second images by examining the candidate regions as inputs in a forward propagation direction through layers of artificial neurons in an artificial neural network.
3. The inspection system of claim 2, wherein the artificial neural network is a dual branch neural network having a first branch and a second branch, wherein the one or more processors input the candidate region of the first image into the first branch and input the candidate region of the second image into the second branch.
4. The inspection system of claim 2, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to generate an output probability that the candidate regions of the first and second images depict a defect, and the one or more processors detect the potential defect in the surface of the work piece responsive to the output probability from the artificial neural network exceeding a designated probability threshold.
5. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein the light characteristic is intensity and the one or more processors are configured to identify the candidate region of the first image by identifying a cluster of pixels in the first image having respective intensities greater than an intensity threshold.
6. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify the candidate region of the first image by applying a bounding box around a cluster of pixels in the first image.
7. The inspection system of claim 1, wherein, responsive to detecting the potential defect in the surface of the work piece along an area of the work piece depicted in the candidate regions of the first and second images, the one or more processors are further configured to control a robotic arm to wipe the surface of the work piece along the area.
8. The inspection system of claim 7, wherein the first and second images are first and second pre-wipe images, and the one or more processors are further configured to, subsequent to the robotic arm wiping the surface of the work piece, obtain first and second post-wipe images of the work piece that are generated by the one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece as the first and second pre-wipe images, wherein the first post-wipe image is acquired in the UV light setting and the second post-wipe image is acquired in the visible light setting.
9. The inspection system of claim 8, the one or more processors are further configured to compare the candidate regions of the first and second pre-wipe images to analogous candidate regions of the first and second post-wipe images to classify the potential defect as a confirmed defect or a false positive.
10. The inspection system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are configured to examine the candidate regions of the first and second pre-wipe images and the analogous candidate regions of the first and second post-wipe images as inputs in a forward propagation direction through layers of artificial neurons in an artificial neural network to classify the potential defect as the confirmed defect or the false positive.
11. A method comprising: obtaining a first image of a work piece that has a fluorescent dye thereon in an ultraviolet (UV) light setting in which the work piece is illuminated with an ultraviolet light to cause the fluorescent dye to emit light; obtaining a second image of the work piece in a visible light setting in which the work piece is illuminated by a visible light to cause the work piece to reflect light, wherein the first and second images are generated by one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece; identifying a candidate region of the first image based on a light characteristic of one or more pixels within the candidate region; determining a corresponding candidate region of the second image that is at an analogous location as the candidate region of the first image; and analyzing, via one or more processors, both the candidate region of the first image and the corresponding candidate region of the second image to detect a potential defect on a surface of the work piece and a location of the potential defect relative to the surface of the work piece.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the analyzing includes examining the candidate regions of the first and second images as inputs in a forward propagation direction through layers of artificial neurons in an artificial neural network.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the artificial neural network is a dual branch neural network having a first branch and a second branch, wherein the candidate region of the first image is input into the first branch and the candidate region of the second image is input into the second branch.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the artificial neural network is configured to generate an output probability that the candidate regions of the first and second images depict a defect, and the method further comprises detecting the potential defect in the surface of the work piece responsive to the output probability from the artificial neural network exceeding a designated probability threshold.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the light characteristic is intensity and the identifying of the candidate region of the first image includes identifying a cluster of pixels in the first image having respective intensities greater than an intensity threshold.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the identifying of the candidate region of the first image includes applying a bounding box around a cluster of pixels in the first image.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein, responsive to detecting the potential defect in the surface of the work piece along an area of the work piece depicted in the candidate regions of the first and second images, the method further comprises controlling a robotic arm to wipe the surface of the work piece along the area.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first and second images are first and second pre-wipe images, and the method further comprises, subsequent to the wiping of the surface of the work piece by the robotic arm, obtaining first and second post-wipe images of the work piece that are generated by the one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece as the first and second pre-wipe images, wherein the first post-wipe image is acquired in the UV light setting and the second post-wipe image is acquired in the visible light setting.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising comparing the candidate regions of the first and second pre-wipe images to analogous candidate regions of the first and second post-wipe images to classify the potential defect as a confirmed defect or a false positive.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the comparing includes examining the candidate regions of the first and second pre-wipe images and the analogous candidate regions of the first and second post-wipe images as inputs in a forward propagation direction through layers of artificial neurons in an artificial neural network.
21. An inspection system comprising: one or more processors configured to obtain a first image of a work piece in an ultraviolet (UV) light setting and a second image of the work piece in a visible light setting, the work piece having a fluorescent dye thereon, the first and second images being generated by one or more imaging devices in the same position relative to the work piece, wherein the one or more processors are configured to identify a candidate region of the first image based on a light characteristic of one or more pixels within the candidate region, and to input the candidate region of the first image into a first branch of a dual branch neural network, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to input a corresponding candidate region of the second image, at an analogous location as the candidate region of the first image, into a second branch of the dual branch neural network to examine the candidate regions in a forward propagation direction through layers of artificial neurons of the dual branch neural network, the one or more processors detecting a potential defect in a surface of the work piece depicted in the candidate regions based on an output of the dual branch neural network.
</claims>
</document>
