<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/42,G06K9/62,G06T3/60,G06T7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DIDI RESEARCH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, YAN
HOU, TINGBO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123122
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING IMAGE PRE-PROCESSING TO GENERATE A MACHINE LEARNING MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and processes can reduce an amount of training data used to generate a machine learning model while maintaining or improving a resultant of the machine learning model. The amount of training data may be reduced by pre-processing the training data to normalize the training data. The training data may include images of portions of an elongated object, such as a road. Each of the images can be normalized by, for example, rotating each of the images such that the depicted roads are horizontal or otherwise share the same angle. By aligning disparate images of roads, it is possible to reduce the amount of training data and to increase the accuracy of the machine learning model. Further, the use of normalized images by the machine learning model enables a reduction in computing resources used to apply data to the machine learning model to, for example, identify lane markings within images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating a lane marking machine learning model using a pre-processed image dataset, the computer-implemented method comprising: as implemented by a model generation system comprising one or more hardware processors and configured with specific computer-executable instructions, receiving a set of training data comprising normalized images of road segments; generating a lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, the lane marking overlay corresponding to lane markings of road segments depicted in the normalized images; performing a data augmentation process on each of the normalized images and the corresponding lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images to obtain a set of augmented images; and generating one or more machine learning models based at least in part on the set of training data, the lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, and the set of augmented images.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the normalized images of road segments comprise a binary image derived from a segment of a high definition image.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of training data comprises at least one normalized image without lane markings.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein said generating the lane marking overlay excludes generating a lane marking overlay for the at least one normalized image without lane markings.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein said generating the lane marking overlay comprises generating a lane marking overlay indicating a lack of lane markings for the at least one normalized image without lane markings.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein performing the data augmentation process comprises rotating each of the normalized images and the corresponding lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images to obtain the set of augmented images.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein at least some of the normalized images are rotated by a different amount than at least some other of the normalized images.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein at least some of the normalized images are rotated by a random or pseudo-random number of degrees.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of training data comprises a second set of normalized images of road segments, and wherein the second set of normalized images is excluded from said performing the data augmentation process.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the normalized images of road segments are normalized such that a corresponding road segment depicted in the normalized image is rotated to align along an axis, and wherein the axis is the same for each of the normalized images.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said generating one or more machine learning models comprises generating a plurality of machine learning models and wherein the method further comprises selecting a machine learning model from the plurality of machine learning models based on one or more selection factors.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the one or more selection factors comprise: a complexity of each machine learning model; an accuracy of each machine learning model; or an amount of time to execute each machine learning model.
13. A system for generating a lane marking machine learning model using a pre-processed image dataset, the system comprising: a non-volatile storage configured to store training data for generating one or more machine learning models to identify lane markings within an image of a road network; and a model generation system comprising one or more hardware processors configured to: access from the non-volatile storage a set of training data comprising normalized images of road segments; generate a lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, the lane marking overlay corresponding to lane markings of road segments depicted in the normalized images; obtain a set of augmented images using a data augmentation process applied to the normalized images and the corresponding lane marking overlays; and generate one or more machine learning models based at least in part on the set of training data, the lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, and the set of augmented images.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of training data comprises at least one normalized image without lane markings and wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to exclude the at least one normalized image without lane markings when generating the lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of training data comprises at least one normalized image without lane markings and wherein the model generation system is further configured to generate a lane marking overlay indicating a lack of lane markings for the at least one normalized image without lane markings when generating the lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the model generation system is further configured to perform the data augmentation process by at least rotating each of the normalized images and the corresponding lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images to obtain the set of augmented images.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein at least some of the normalized images are rotated by a different amount than at least some other of the normalized images.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of training data comprises a second set of normalized images of road segments, and wherein the model generation system is further configured to exclude the second set of normalized images from the data augmentation process.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein each of the normalized images of road segments are normalized such that a corresponding road segment depicted in the normalized image is rotated to align along an axis, and wherein the axis is the same for each of the normalized images.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that, when executed by one or more computing devices, configure the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving a set of training data comprising normalized images of road segments; generating a lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, the lane marking overlay corresponding to lane markings of road segments depicted in the normalized images; obtaining a set of augmented images based on the normalized images and the corresponding lane marking overlays; and generating one or more machine learning models based at least in part on the set of training data, the lane marking overlay for each of the normalized images, and the set of augmented images.
</claims>
</document>
