<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06T1/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KP, SAMEER
BALAKRISHNAN, VIJAYAKUMAR
PAWAR, SAGAR C.
MS, SASHANK
MUSUNURI, SATYANANTHA R.
BABU, RAVINDRA A.
KAIPA, KALYAN K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63852364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Compensating for High Head Movement in Head-Mounted Displays
</title>

<abstract>
When the speed of head movement exceeds the processing capability of the system, a reduced depiction is displayed. As one example, the resolution may be reduced using coarse pixel shading in order to create a new depiction at the speed of head movement. In accordance with another embodiment, only the region the user is looking at is processed in full resolution and the remainder of the depiction is processed at lower resolution. In still another embodiment, the background depictions may be blurred or grayed out to reduce processing time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a graphics processor comprising a plurality of graphics processing cores to: receive, in the graphics processor, a first workload from a virtual reality application when a rate of movement of a user's head exceeds a threshold level, and receive a second workload from the virtual reality application when the rate of movement does not exceed the threshold level; render the first workload in the graphics processor, comprising to render, from the first workload, a first plurality of frames having a reduced pixel density in a rendering engine of the graphics processor; provide the first plurality of frames to a display engine of the graphics processor; thereafter send the first plurality of frames to a display panel; render the second workload in the graphics processor, comprising to render, from the second workload, a second plurality of frames in the rendering engine; provide the second plurality of frames to the display engine; and thereafter send the second plurality of frames to the display panel.
2. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to send the first plurality of frames to the display panel having a reduced latency.
3. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to pixel shade the first workload at a lower resolution than the second workload.
4. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to: render a first region of a first frame of the first plurality of frames at a first resolution; and render a second region of the first frame at a second resolution lower than the first resolution, the first region comprising a foveated region.
5. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 4, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to send the first region and the second region to the display panel, wherein the display panel comprises a head-mounted display.
6. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to refresh a background portion of the first plurality of frames at a lower rate than a foreground portion of the first plurality of frames.
7. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to update a depth buffer for a foreground region at a higher rate than update of the depth buffer for a background region.
8. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 1, further comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to render the second plurality of frames having a pixel density greater than the reduced pixel density.
9. A graphics processing unit, comprising: an interface to couple the graphics processing unit to a processor, a plurality of texture units, a shared memory coupled to the plurality of texture units, a plurality of register files coupled to the shared memory, a plurality of load/store units coupled to the shared memory, and a plurality of graphics processing cores coupled to the plurality of register files, and a non-transitory storage memory comprising instructions that when executed cause at least some of the plurality of graphics processing cores to: receive a first workload from a virtual reality application when a rate of movement of a user's head exceeds a threshold level, and receive a second workload from the virtual reality application when the rate of movement does not exceed the threshold level; render the first workload, comprising to render, from the first workload, a first plurality of frames having a reduced pixel density in a rendering engine; provide the first plurality of frames to a display engine; thereafter send the first plurality of frames to a display panel; render the second workload, comprising to render, from the second workload, a second plurality of frames in the rendering engine; provide the second plurality of frames to the display engine; and thereafter send the second plurality of frames to the display panel.
10. The graphics processing unit of claim 9, further comprising scheduler logic to schedule groups of instructions.
11. The graphics processing unit of claim 10, further comprising a plurality of arithmetic logic units coupled to the plurality of register files, wherein the plurality of arithmetic logic units are to perform operations on integer data types.
12. The graphics processing unit of claim 11, further comprising at least one memory unit.
13. The graphics processing unit of claim 12, wherein the memory unit comprises a load and store unit.
14. The graphics processing unit of claim 9, wherein the non-transitory storage medium further comprises instructions that when executed cause the at least some of the plurality of graphics processing cores to send the first plurality of frames to the display panel having a reduced latency.
15. The graphics processing unit of claim 9, wherein the non-transitory storage medium further comprises instructions that when executed cause the at least some of the plurality of graphics processing cores to pixel shade the first workload at a lower resolution than the second workload.
16. The graphics processing unit of claim 9, wherein the non-transitory storage medium further comprises instructions that when executed cause the at least some of the plurality of graphics processing cores to: render a first region of a first frame of the first plurality of frames at a first resolution; and render a second region of the first frame at a second resolution lower than the first resolution, the first region comprising a foveated region.
17. A graphics processor, comprising: a register file to store information; a plurality of arithmetic logic units coupled to the register file; a plurality of texture units coupled to the register file; and a non-transitory storage memory comprising instructions that when executed cause the graphics processor to: receive a first workload from a virtual reality application when a rate of movement of a user's head exceeds a threshold level, and receive a second workload from the virtual reality application when the rate of movement does not exceed the threshold level; render the first workload, comprising to render, from the first workload, a first plurality of frames having a reduced pixel density in a rendering engine; provide the first plurality of frames to a display engine; thereafter send the first plurality of frames to a display panel; render the second workload, comprising to render, from the second workload, a second plurality of frames in the rendering engine; provide the second plurality of frames to the display engine; and thereafter send the second plurality of frames to the display panel.
18. The graphics processor of claim 17, further comprising an interface to communicate with a head-mounted display comprising the display panel.
19. The graphics processor of claim 18, wherein the interface is to receive motion tracking information from the head-mounted display.
</claims>
</document>
