<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ITRI (INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEN, MIN-HSIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072607
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ADAPTIVELY ADJUSTING RELATED SEARCH WORDS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for adaptively adjusting related search words are provided. The system includes an input device, a search log collection module, a threshold setting module and a process evolution module. The input device receives a search word. The search log collection module determines whether the cumulative search count of the search word is greater than a first threshold or less than a second threshold. The threshold setting module sets the first threshold and the second threshold in terms of the number of search logs. When the cumulative search count of the search word is between the first threshold and the second threshold, the process evolution module optimizes the middle search process to find out at least one related word and/or at least one historical search word most related to the attributes or content of the search word from the indexed text and the historical search log.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for adaptively adjusting related search words, comprising: an input device configured to receive a search word; a search log collection module configured to determine whether a cumulative search count of the search word is greater than a first threshold or less than a second threshold; a threshold setting module configured to set the first threshold or the second threshold in terms of a number of search logs; and a process evolution module configured to adjust a search process according to the number of search logs, wherein when the cumulative search count of the search word is greater than the first threshold, the process evolution module finds at least one historical search word related to attributes or content of the search word according to a historical search log, wherein, when the cumulative search count of the search word is less than the second threshold, the process evolution module performs an initial search process to find out at least one related word related to the attributes or content of the search word from a text, wherein, when the cumulative search count of the search word is between the first threshold and the second threshold, the process evolution module optimizes the middle search process to find out at least one related word and/or at least one historical search word that are most related to the attributes or content of the search word from the text and the historical search log.
2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: an index word list; and a content-based related word generation module configured to analyze the text to find out top M index words most related to the search word according to the index word list to generate a content-based related word list; and a log-based related word generation module configured to analyze a strength of relevance between any two historical search words in the historical search log to find out top N historical search words most related to the search word to generate a log-based related word list.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the content-based related word generation module calculates the strength of relevance according to a probability at which the search word and the index words appear in the text separately or concurrently.
4. The system according to claim 2, wherein the log-based related word generation module calculates the strength of relevance according to a probability at which one or more attributes or content of the search word and the historical search words appear in the historical search log separately or concurrently.
5. The system according to claim 2, further comprising: a discrimination value calculation module configured to calculate a discrimination value of each related word according to the index word list, the log-based related word list and the content-based related word list; and a related word recommendation module configured to compare the discrimination value of each related word in the log-based related word list with the discrimination value of each related word in the content-based related word list to select top P related words having largest discrimination values from the content-based related word list and the log-based related word list according to a sorting of the discrimination value of each related word.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the discrimination value calculation module calculates the discrimination value according to a degree of difference of each related word appearing in the text, and the degree of difference is related to a frequency at which each related word appears in the text or a plurality of texts.
7. The system according to claim 2, further comprising: a word segmentation module configured to receive the search word, wherein when the search word cannot be found in the text, the word segmentation module parses the search word into at least one index word according to the index word list.
8. The system according to claim 5, further comprising: a new word recognition module configured to recognize whether the related word contains a new word which cannot be found in the index word list, wherein when the new word is included in the related word, the discrimination value calculation module calculates the discrimination value of the related word according to the related word and the new word contained therein.
9. The system according to one of claim 1, wherein the system is performed by a processor or a software program loaded into the system by the processor.
10. A method for adaptively adjusting related search words, comprising: performing an input process to receive a search word; performing a search log collection process to determine whether a cumulative search count of the search word is greater than a first threshold or less than a second threshold; performing a threshold setting process to set the first threshold or the second threshold in terms of a number of search logs; and performing a process evolution process to adjust a search process according to the number of search logs, wherein when the cumulative search count of the search word is greater than the first threshold, at least one historical search word related to attributes or content of the search word is found out according to a historical search log, wherein, when the cumulative search count of the search word is less than the second threshold, an initial search process is performed to find out at least one related word related to the attributes or content of the search word from a text, wherein, when the cumulative search count of the search word is between the first threshold and the second threshold, the middle search process is optimized and performed to find out at least one related word and/or at least one historical search word that are most related to the attributes or content of the search word from the text and the historical search log.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: creating an index word list; and performing a text related word generation process to analyze the text to find out top M index words most related to the search word according to the index word list to generate a content-based related word list; and performing a log related word generation process to analyze a strength of relevance between any two historical search words in the historical search log to find out top N historical search words most related to the search word to generate a log-based related word list.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the text related word generation process is performed to calculate the strength of relevance according to a probability at which the search word and the index words appear in the text separately or concurrently.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the log related word generation process is performed to calculate the strength of relevance according to a probability at which the attributes or content of the search word and the historical search words appear in the historical search log separately or concurrently.
14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: performing a related word discrimination calculation process to calculate a discrimination value of each related word according to the index word list, the log-based related word list and the content-based related word list; and performing a related word recommendation process to compare the discrimination value of each related word in the log-based related word list with the discrimination value of each related word in the content-based related word list to select top P related words having largest discrimination values from the content-based related word list and the log-based related word list according to a sorting of the discrimination value of each related word.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the related word discrimination calculation process is performed to calculate the discrimination value according to a degree of difference of each related word appearing in the text, and the degree of difference is related to a frequency at which each related word appears in the text or a plurality of texts.
16. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: performing a word parsing process to receive the search word, wherein when the search word cannot be found in the text, the search word is parsed into at least one index word according to the index word list.
17. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: performing a new word recognition process to recognize whether the related word contains a new word which cannot be found in the index word list, wherein when the new word is included in the related word, the discrimination value of the related word is calculated according to the related word and the new word contained therein.
18. The method according to claim 10, wherein the method is performed by a processor or a software program loaded into the system by the processor.
</claims>
</document>
