<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,G06F40/123,G06F40/137,G06F40/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPEN TEXT GXS ULC
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOYERS, ROGER DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67541696
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RULES/MODEL-BASED DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR INTELLIGENT EVENT PREDICTION IN AN ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic data interchange (EDI) management system may comprise a memory for storing EDI document data and a machine learning prediction model representing element information of EDI documents of a first type and a corresponding status. A processor can be configured to extract elements from an EDI document, create a document record for the EDI document, the document record comprising elements extracted from the EDI document; determine a first delivery status for the EDI document of the first type by processing the extracted elements using a machine learning delivery model, the machine learning delivery model trained on a training set of elements to classify documents according to a plurality of delivery statuses, and add the first status to the document record for the EDI document of the first type, the first status accessible to a client computer via a presentation layer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for electronic data interchange (EDI) management comprising: a networked EDI system configured to receive EDI documents over a network, capture EDI document data and deliver the EDI documents over the network; a memory for storing the EDI document data and a delivery model representing element information of EDI documents of a first type and a corresponding delivery status; a processor that is configured to perform a method comprising: for an EDI document of the first type: extracting elements from the EDI document of the first type and creating a document record for the EDI document of the first type, the document record comprising elements extracted from the EDI document of the first type, the extracted elements including an element indicating a requested delivery date; determining a first delivery status for the EDI document of the first type by processing the extracted elements using a machine learning delivery model, the machine learning delivery model trained on a training set of elements to classify documents according to a plurality of delivery statuses; and adding the first delivery status to the document record for the EDI document of the first type, the first delivery status accessible to a client computer via a presentation layer.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: receiving an EDI document of a second type; associating the EDI document of the first type with the EDI document of the second type based on at least one element of the EDI document of the first type and at least one element of the EDI document of the second type; and updating the document record for the EDI document of the first type with a second delivery status, the second delivery status accessible via the presentation layer.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first delivery status is a predicted delivery status and the second delivery status is an actual delivery status.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to perform retraining of the machine learning delivery model using the extracted elements from the EDI document of the first type and the second delivery status.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to extract segments from the EDI document of the first type and wherein the extracted elements include elements from multiple segments.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to map elements from different segments to an input of the machine learning delivery model.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform periodically retraining the machine learning delivery model with a current set of EDI document data.
8. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium storing a set of computer instructions executable by a computer, the set of computer instructions comprising instructions for: accessing a memory for storing electronic data interchange (EDI) document data and a delivery model representing element information of EDI documents of a first type and a corresponding delivery status; receiving EDI documents of multiple types; for an EDI document of the first type: extracting elements from the EDI document of the first type and creating a document record for the EDI document of the first type, the document record comprising elements extracted from the EDI document of the first type, the extracted elements including an element indicating a requested delivery date; determining a first delivery status for the EDI document of the first type by processing the extracted elements using a machine learning delivery model, the machine learning delivery model trained on a training set of elements to classify documents according to a plurality of delivery statuses; and adding the first delivery status to the document record for the EDI document of the first type, the first delivery status accessible to a client computer via a presentation layer.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the set of computer instructions further comprises instructions for: receiving an EDI document of a second type; associating the EDI document of the first type with the EDI document of the second type based on at least one element of the EDI document of the first type and at least one element of the EDI document of the second type; and updating the document record for the EDI document of the first type with a second delivery status, the second delivery status accessible via the presentation layer.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the first delivery status is a predicted delivery status and the second delivery status is an actual delivery status.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the set of computer instructions further comprises instructions for retraining the machine learning delivery model using the extracted elements from the EDI document of the first type and the second delivery status.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the set of computer instructions further comprises instructions for extracting segments from the EDI document of the first type, wherein the extracted elements include elements from multiple segments.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the set of computer instructions comprises instruction for mapping elements from different segments to an input of the machine learning delivery model.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the set of computer instructions further comprises instructions for periodically retraining the machine learning delivery model with a current set of EDI document data.
15. A method for electronic data interchange (EDI) document management comprising: at a networked EDI system: receiving EDI documents of multiple types; capturing EDI document data from the EDI documents; delivering the EDI documents over a network; accessing a memory for storing the EDI document data and a delivery model representing element information of EDI documents of a first type and a corresponding delivery status; for an EDI document of the first type: extracting elements from the EDI document of the first type and creating a document record for the EDI document of the first type, the document record comprising elements extracted from the EDI document of the first type, the extracted elements including an element indicating a requested delivery date; determining a first delivery status for the EDI document of the first type by processing the extracted elements using a machine learning delivery model, the machine learning delivery model trained on a training set of elements to classify documents according to a plurality of delivery statuses; and adding the first delivery status to the document record for the EDI document of the first type, the first delivery status accessible to a client computer via a presentation layer.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving an EDI document of a second type at the networked EDI system; associating the EDI document of the first type with the EDI document of the second type based on at least one element of the EDI document of the first type and at least one element of the EDI document of the second type; and updating the document record for the EDI document of the first type with a second delivery status, the second delivery status accessible via the presentation layer.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first delivery status is a predicted delivery status and the second delivery status is an actual delivery status.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising retraining the machine learning delivery model using the extracted elements from the EDI document of the first type and the second delivery status.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising extracting segments from the EDI document of the first type, wherein the extracted elements include elements from multiple segments.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising mapping elements from different segments to an input of the machine learning delivery model.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising periodically retraining the machine learning delivery model with a current set of EDI document data.
</claims>
</document>
