<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOGHTADERI, AZADEH
BAWA, GAGANDEEP SINGH
SCHWARZBACH, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56164597
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION FOR NON-STATIONARY DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method of detecting anomalies in a time series is disclosed. A training time series corresponding to a process is extracted from an initial time series corresponding to the process, the training time series including a subset of the initial time series. Outlier data points in the training time series are modified based on predetermined acceptability criteria. A plurality of prediction methods are trained using the training time series. An actual data point corresponding to the initial time series is received. The plurality of prediction methods are used to determine a set of predicted data points corresponding to the actual data point. It is determined whether the actual data point is anomalous based on a calculation of whether each of the set of predicted data points is statistically different from the actual data point.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving an initial time series of data points; receiving a training time series of data points representing a recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points; training at least one prediction method using at least the training time series of data points; measuring an actual data point, the actual data point being derived from data at a later time than the last data point in the training time series; using the at least one prediction method to determine a predicted value corresponding to the actual data point; determining whether the actual data point is anomalous based on a calculation of whether the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point; and providing a visual representation including the actual data point, the predicted data point, and a determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein pre-processing of the recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points is applied to bring an outlier data point into a range of other data points in the recent subset of data points.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the visual representation includes a color associated with the determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the visual representation includes time on an x-axis of a chart.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the visual representation includes a value of a metric on a y-axis of the chart.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculation of whether the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point includes a determination of a standard deviation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the initial time series corresponds to a category of data generated by one or more processes executing on a system.
8. A system comprising: one or more computer memories; one or more computer processors; a set of instructions incorporated into the one or more computer memories, the set of instructions configuring the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: receiving an initial time series of data points; receiving a training time series of data points representing a recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points; training at least one prediction method using at least the training time series of data points; measuring an actual data point, the actual data point being derived from data at a later time than the last data point in the training time series; using the at least one prediction method to determine a predicted value corresponding to the actual data point; determining whether the actual data point is anomalous based on a calculation of whether the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point; and providing a visual representation including the actual data point, the predicted data point, and a determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein pre-processing of the recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points is applied to bring an outlier data point into a range of other data points in the recent subset of data points.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the visual representation includes a color associated with the determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the visual representation includes time on an x-axis of a chart.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the visual representation includes a value of a metric on a y-axis of the chart.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the calculation of whether the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point includes a determination of a standard deviation.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the initial time series corresponds to a category of data generated by one or more processes executing on a system.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving an initial time series of data points; receiving a training time series of data points representing a recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points; training at least one prediction method using at least the training time series of data points; measuring an actual data point, the actual data point being derived from data at a later time than the last data point in the training time series; using the at least one prediction method to determine a predicted value corresponding to the actual data point; determining whether the actual data point is anomalous based on a calculation of hetiter the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point; and providing a visual representation including the actual data point, the predicted data point, and a determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein pre-processing of the recent subset of data points in the initial time series of data points is applied to bring an outlier data point into a range of other data points in the recent subset of data points.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the visual representation includes a color associated with the determination of whether the actual data point is anomalous.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the visual representation includes time on an x-axis of a chart.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the visual representation includes a value of a metric on a y-axis of the chart.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the calculation of whether the actual data point is statistically different from the predicted data point includes a determination of a standard deviation.
</claims>
</document>
