<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/08,H04N19/124,H04N19/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
RASMUSSON, JIM
ISBERG, PETER
LJUNG, RICKARD
TRANG, LINH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62165560
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRANSMISSION OF SENSOR DATA FROM SENSOR DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor device operates in accordance with a method that implements a generic encoder for sensor data. The method comprises: receiving (201) input signal data of one or more sensors; encoding (202) the input signal data into formatted sensor data in a first format; and transmitting (203) the formatted sensor data to a receiving device over a communication channel. The method further comprises: configuring (205), subject to a command, said encoding to generate the formatted sensor data in a second format which differs from the first format. The command may be generated by internal analysis (206) in the sensor device, allowing the formatted sensor data to be automatically adjusted to the input signal data, or by external analysis (207) in the receiving device, allowing external control of the formatted sensor data that is transmitted by the sensor device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, for use in a sensor device, said method comprising: receiving input signal data of one or more sensors, encoding the input signal data into formatted sensor data in a first format, and transmitting the formatted sensor data to a receiving device over a communication channel, wherein the method further comprises: configuring, subject to a command said encoding to generate the formatted sensor data in a second format which differs from the first format.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the formatted sensor data in the first format comprises one or more output parameters, and wherein said configuring comprises at least one of: changing a physical unit of at least one of the one or more output parameters, including at least one additional output parameter in the formatted sensor data, switching between generating at least one of the one or more output parameters in a time domain and in a frequency domain, changing frequency content represented by at least one of the one or more output parameters, changing a number of frequency components that are included among the one or more output parameters, changing a dynamic range of at least one of the one or more output parameters, changing a sampling rate of at least part of the input signal data, changing a transmission bit rate of at least one of the one or more output parameters, changing a quantization of at least one of the one or more output parameters, activating a differential coding of at least one of the one or more output parameters, activating a parametric coding of at least one of the one or more output parameters, activating a multiplexing of at least two output parameters when transmitting the one or more output parameters, and controlling an autoencoder to generate at least one of the one or more output parameters by dimensionality reduction.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said changing a number of frequency components further comprises one of: including only a fundamental frequency of the input signal data among the one or more output parameters, including a set of harmonics of the fundamental frequency among the one or more output parameters, and including a power spectrum representation of the input signal data among the one or more output parameters.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein said changing frequency content is based on masking data, which defines one or more of: a set of frequency ranges to be represented by the one or more output parameters, a quantization within one or more frequency ranges, a time-averaging within one or more frequency ranges, and a number of frequency components within one or more frequency ranges.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein said changing a quantization further comprises modifying a control parameter of a configurable dithering process.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the command is received from the receiving device and is optionally generated by the receiving device by processing the formatted sensor data in the first format.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the command is indicative of characteristics of the second format.
8. (canceled)
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing an analysis of the input signal data to generate the command.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the command is generated by the sensor device to automatically adapt the formatted sensor data to the input signal data.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein said analysis comprises: processing the input signal data in relation to a set of formatting criteria, said set of formatting criteria comprising one or more of: detecting a repeating signal feature in the input signal data, detecting an absence of a characteristic change in the input signal data, determining, in the input signal data, a variability that falls below a variability threshold for a time period, detecting a characteristic change in the input signal data, detecting a change of sensor or sensor type, detecting a change in complexity in the input signal data, detecting a similarity between input signal data of two or more sensors or between two or more output parameters among the one or more output parameters, and detecting a match between a predefined signal pattern and the input signal data.
12. (canceled)
13. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the repeating signal feature, generates the command to include an index of the predefined signal pattern in the formatted sensor data or to switch to generating at least one of the one or more output parameters in the frequency domain.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the absence of a characteristic change, generates the command to reduce transmission bit rate and/or decrease quantization.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when determining the variability below a variability threshold for a time period, generates the command to reduce transmission bit rate and/or decrease quantization.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the characteristic change, generates the command to increase transmission bit rate and/or increase quantization.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the change in complexity, generates the command to change at least one of transmission bit rate and quantization.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the similarity, generates the command to switch to parametric coding.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the match, generates the command to include an index of the predefined signal pattern among said one or more output parameters.
20. 20-21. (canceled)
22. The method of claim 11, wherein said analysis, when detecting the change of sensor or sensor type, generates the command to switch to one of parametric coding and differential coding.
23. (canceled)
24. A sensor device configured for connection to one or more sensors and configured to perform a method in accordance with claim 1.
25. A system comprising a sensor device in accordance with claim 24, and a receiving device configured to receive the formatted sensor data in the first format from the sensor device, wherein the receiving device is further configured to process the formatted sensor data in the first format for detection of a need to change format of the formatted sensor data, determine a second format that differs from the first format, and transmit a command to the sensor device so as to cause the sensor device to generate the formatted sensor data in the second format.
</claims>
</document>
