<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01D34/00,A01D34/74,B60W60/00,G05D1/02,H04B3/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Renu Robotics Corporation
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATUS, TIM ALAN
Eyman, Michael D.
Padgett, Tony
Blanton, Michael Odell
Dayov, Jeff
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549242
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATED GROUNDS MAINTENANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A grounds maintenance system comprising: a robot tractor comprising; a robot body; a drive system including one or more motorized drive wheels to propel the robot body; a control system coupled to the drive system, the control system configurable to store a mow plan that specifies a set of paths to be traversed for a grounds maintenance operation and control the drive system to autonomously traverse the set of paths to implement the mow plan; a battery system comprising one or more batteries housed in the robot body; and a low-profile mowing deck coupled to the robot body, the mowing deck adapted to tilt and lift relative to the robot body, wherein the control system is configured to control tilting and lifting of the mowing deck and cutting by the mowing deck.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A grounds maintenance system comprising: a robot tractor comprising; a robot body; a drive system including one or more motorized drive wheels to propel the robot body; a control system coupled to the drive system, the control system configurable to store a mow plan that specifies a set of paths to be traversed for a grounds maintenance operation and control the drive system to autonomously traverse the set of paths to implement the mow plan; a battery system comprising one or more batteries housed in the robot body; and a low-profile mowing deck coupled to the robot body, the mowing deck adapted to tilt and lift relative to the robot body, wherein the control system is configurable to control tilting and lifting of the mowing deck and cutting by the mowing deck.
2. The grounds maintenance system of claim 1, further comprising: a tool mounting bracket vertically slidable relative to the robot body, wherein the mowing deck is connected to the tool mounting bracket by a hinge that is movable with the tool mounting bracket; a tilt actuator system movable with the tool mounting bracket, the tilt actuator system adapted to rotate the mowing deck about the hinge, wherein the control system is configurable to control the tilt actuator system to tilt and un-tilt the mowing deck; and a lift actuator system adapted to vertically translate the tool mounting bracket, wherein the control system is coupled to the lift actuator system and is configurable to control the lift actuator system to lift and lower the mowing deck.
3. The grounds maintenance system of claim 2, further comprising: a plurality of contact wheels; a plurality of contact wheel linkages rotatably coupled to the mowing deck; and a contact wheel actuator system adapted to rotate the plurality of contact wheel linkages relative to the mowing deck to move the contact wheels relative to the mowing deck, wherein the control system is configurable to control the contact wheel actuator system to maintain contact between the plurality of contact wheels and the ground.
4. The grounds maintenance system of claim 1, wherein the robot tractor further comprises a charger interface, wherein the charger interface comprises a charger power interface and a charger data interface.
5. The grounds maintenance system of claim 4, where the robot tractor comprises a pair of robot charger contacts, the pair of robot charger contacts comprising laterally extending plates of conductive material.
6. The grounds maintenance system of claim 5, further comprising the charging station, the charging station comprising a charging dock, the charging dock comprising: a support frame; a set of contact holders coupled to the support frame, the set of contact holders vertically translatable relative to the support frame, the set of contact holders including: a first contact holder holding a first charging station contact from the pair of charging station contacts, the first charging station contact having a first charging station contact ramp portion that extends beyond the first contact holder and is angled downward, the first contact holder adapted to position the first charging station contact so that the first charging station contact ramp portion aligns with a first robot charger contact of the pair of robot charger contacts and to be pressed down by the first robot charger contact when the robot tractor docks; a second contact holder holding a second charging station contact from the pair of charging station contacts, the second charging station contact having a second charging station contact ramp portion that extends beyond the second contact holder and is angled downward, the second contact holder adapted to position the second charging station contact so that the second charging station contact ramp portion aligns with a second robot charger contact of the pair of robot charger contacts and to be pressed down by the second robot charger contact when the robot tractor docks; a first biasing member to bias the first charging station contact against the first robot charger contact when the robot tractor is docked; and a second biasing member to bias the second charging station contact against the second robot charger contact when the robot tractor is docked.
7. The grounds maintenance system of claim 4, wherein the control system is configurable to: control the drive system to maneuver the robot tractor to a position associated with being docked at a charging station; based on a determination that the robot tractor is at the position, attempt to establish communication with the charging station via the charger data interface using a communication protocol; determine if communication was established between the robot tractor and the charging station via the charger data interface; based on a determination that communication could not be established with charging station, control the drive system to redock the robot tractor at the charging station; and based on a determination that communication could be established with the charging station, initiate charging of the one or more batteries.
8. The grounds maintenance system of claim 7, wherein the communication protocol is a power-line communication protocol.
9. The grounds maintenance system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configurable to: store a return to charger decision model, the return to charger decision model trained to output a return to charger decision; store, for each of the set of paths, an associated expected power draw; during execution of the mow plan: read a current battery capacity; determine a current position in the mow plan; based on the current position in the mow plan; determine a remaining portion of the mow plan; determine a route to a charging station; determine an estimated power to complete the mow plan using associated expected power draws associated with the remaining portion of the mow plan; determine an estimated power to reach the charging station using associated expected power draws associated with the route to the charging station; access a set of battery maintenance parameters; and apply the return to charger decision model to a set of inputs to determine whether to continue on a current path or return to the charging station, the set of inputs comprising the current battery capacity, the estimated power to complete the mow plan, the estimated power to reach the charging station and the set of battery maintenance parameters.
10. The grounds maintenance system of claim 9, wherein the control system is configurable to: determine a current power draw for a current path of the mow plan; determine a historical power draw for the current path of the mow plan; compare the current power draw to the historical power draw to generate a comparison result; and prior to applying the return to charger decision model to the estimated power to complete the mow plan, adjust the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on the comparison result.
11. The grounds maintenance system of claim 10, wherein the control system is configurable to: increase the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on a determination that the current power draw for the current path of the mow plan is greater than the historical power draw for the current path; and decrease the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on a determination that the current power draw for the current path of the mow plan is less than the historical power draw for the current path.
12. The grounds maintenance system of claim 1, wherein the drive system includes at least two drive wheels, the at least two drive wheels drivable to propel and turn the robot tractor.
13. The grounds maintenance system of claim 12, wherein the robot tractor is a zero-turn tractor.
14. The grounds maintenance system of claim 1, wherein the mowing deck comprises a plurality of mower blades coupled to a plurality of mower motors, wherein the control system is configured to control the mower motors.
15. A grounds maintenance method comprising: storing a mow plan in a memory of a control system of an autonomous robot tractor, the mow plan specifying a set of paths to be traversed for a grounds maintenance operation, the robot tractor comprising: a robot body; a drive system including one or more motorized drive wheels to propel the robot body; a battery system comprising one or more batteries housed in the robot body; and the control system; and executing the mow plan by the control system, executing the mow plan comprising controlling the drive system to autonomously traverse the set of paths and controlling a tilt and lift of and cutting by a low-profile mowing deck coupled to the robot body, the mowing deck adapted to tilt and lift relative to the robot body.
16. The grounds maintenance method of claim 15, further comprising: controlling the drive system to maneuver the robot tractor to a position associated with being docked at a charging station; based on a determination that the robot tractor is at the position, attempting to establish communication between the robot tractor and the charging station via a charger data interface using a communication protocol; determining if communication was established between the robot tractor and the charging station via the charger data interface; and based on a determination that communication could not be established with charging station, control the drive system to redock the robot tractor at the charging station.
17. The grounds maintenance method of claim 16, wherein the communication protocol is a power-line communication protocol.
18. The grounds maintenance method of claim 15, further comprising: storing a return to charger decision model in the control system of the robot tractor, the return to charger decision model trained to output a return to charger decision; storing, for each of the set of paths, an associated expected power draw; during execution of the mow plan: reading a current battery capacity; determining a current position in the mow plan; based on the current position in the mow plan; determining a remaining portion of the mow plan; determining a route to a charging station; determining an estimated power to complete the mow plan using expected power draws associated with the remaining portion of the mow plan; determining an estimated power to reach the charging station using expected power draws associated with the route to the charging station; accessing a set of battery maintenance parameters; and applying the return to charger decision model to a set of inputs to determine whether to continue on a current path of the mow plan or return to the charging station, the set of inputs comprising the current battery capacity, the estimated power to complete the mow plan, the estimated power to reach the charging station and the set of battery maintenance parameters.
19. The grounds maintenance method of claim 18, further comprising: determining a current power draw for the current path of the mow plan; determining a historical power draw for the current path of the mow plan; comparing the current power draw to the historical power draw to generate a comparison result; and prior to applying the return to charger decision model to the estimated power to complete the mow plan, adjusting the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on the comparison result.
20. The grounds maintenance method of claim 19, wherein adjusting the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on the comparison result comprises increasing the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on a determination that the current power draw for the current path of the mow plan is greater than the historical power draw for the current path.
21. The grounds maintenance method of claim 19, wherein adjusting the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on the comparison result comprises decreasing the estimated power to complete the mow plan based on a determination that the current power draw for the current path of the mow plan is less than the historical power draw for the current path.
</claims>
</document>
