<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/58,G06F9/54,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CITRIX SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHU, XIAOLU
LI, DAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71094883
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NOTIFICATION TAGGING FOR A WORKSPACE OR APPLICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods described herein provide for management of notifications. A computing device in communication with a client device receives a notification from at least one notification source. The notification may be for rendering on a screen at the client device. A policy engine of the computing device may identify a context of the notification. The policy engine may add a tag to the notification according to the identified context to control rendering of the notification at the client device. The computing device may transmit the notification with the tag to a notification service at the client device. The notification service may be configured to manage the notification at the client device in accordance with the tag.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing notifications, the method comprising: receiving, by a server in communication with a client device, a notification from at least one notification source, the notification for rendering on a screen at the client device; identifying, by a policy engine of the server, a context of the notification, wherein the context of the notification includes at least one of a context of the client device, a context of a user of the client device, or a context of an application associated with the notification; adding, by the policy engine according to the identified context, a tag to the notification to control rendering of the notification at the client device; and transmitting, by the server to a notification service at the client device, the notification with the tag, the notification service configured to manage the notification at the client device in accordance with the tag.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the context of the notification comprises identifying at least one of: a source of the notification, time information, a location of the client device, information about an application to receive the notification, information about a network connection of the client device, or information about a user of the client device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, to the notification service via the tag, an application of the client device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein adding the tag to the notification comprises modifying at least a portion of the notification.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the policy engine according to the context of the notification, to add the tag to the notification as a visible or an invisible tag.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising causing, in accordance with the invisible tag, at least some text in the notification to be obfuscated to a user of the client device when rendered on the screen at the client device.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the notification service to monitor for an action of a user of the client device in response to the notification service rendering the notification at the client device.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the notification service to render the notification, and to transmit a message to an application of the client device in accordance with the tag.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the notification service includes a hook comprising code executable on the client device, the hook configured to transmit the message to the application of the client device.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the message is configured to cause the application to monitor for an action from a user of the client device responsive to the rendered notification, and to transmit a second notification to the notification service to render on the screen in response to an absence of the action from the user within a predetermined duration.
11. A method comprising: receiving, by a server in communication with a client device, a notification from at least one notification source; identifying, by the server, a context of the received notification, the context being indicative of a priority for display of the received notification on the client device, wherein the context includes at least one of a context of the client device, a context of a user of the client device, or a context of an application associated with the notification; adding, by the server, a tag to the notification to control display of the received notification on the client device, the tag configured to indicate to the client device the priority for display of the received notification based on the identified context; and providing, by the server, the notification with the tag to the client device to establish a workflow for notifications received at the client device, the workflow prioritizes display of the received notifications at the client device based on the tags of the received notifications.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein identifying the context of the notification comprises identifying at least one of: a source of the notification, time information, a location of the client device, information about an application to receive the notification, information about a network connection of the client device, or information about a user of the client device.
13. A computing device for managing notifications, the computing device comprising: at least one processor configured to: receive a notification from at least one notification source, the notification for rendering on a screen at a client device; identify a context of the notification, wherein the context of the notification includes at least one of a context of the client device, a context of a user of the client device, or a context of an application associated with the notification; add, according to the identified context, a tag to the notification to control rendering of the notification at the client device; and transmit, to a notification service at the client device, the notification with the tag, the notification service configured to manage the notification at the client device in accordance with the tag.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify the context of the notification by identifying at least one of: a source of the notification, time information, a location of the client device, information about an application to receive the notification, information about a network connection of the client device, or information about a user of the client device.
15. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is configured to identify to the notification service via the tag, an application of the client device.
16. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine, according to the context of the notification, to add the tag to the notification as a visible or an invisible tag.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause, in accordance with the invisible tag, at least some text in the notification to be obfuscated to a user of the client device when rendered on the screen at the client device.
18. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause the notification service to monitor for an action of a user of the client device in response to the notification service rendering the notification at the client device.
19. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to cause the notification service to render the notification, and to transmit a message to an application of the client device in accordance with the tag.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein the message is configured to cause the application to monitor for an action from a user of the client device responsive to the rendered notification, and to transmit a second notification to the notification service to render on the screen in response to the absence of the action from the user within a predetermined duration.
</claims>
</document>
