<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/0806,G06F12/0862
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WESTERN DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VUCINIC, DEJAN
Radi, Marjan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016488
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED CACHE WITH IN-NETWORK PREFETCH
</title>

<abstract>
A programmable switch receives a cache line request from a client of a plurality of clients on a network to obtain a cache line. One or more additional cache lines are identified based on the received cache line request and prefetch information. The cache line and the one or more additional cache lines are requested from one or more memory devices on the network. The requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines are received from the one or more memory devices, and are sent to the client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A programmable switch, comprising: a plurality of ports for communication with devices on a network; and circuitry configured to: receive program instructions to program the programmable switch for processing packets within the network; receive a cache line request from a client of a plurality of clients on the network to obtain a cache line; identify one or more additional cache lines to obtain based on the received cache line request and prefetch information received from a host in communication with the programmable switch, in accordance with the received program instructions; request the cache line and the identified one or more additional cache lines from one or more memory devices on the network via one or more ports of the plurality of ports; receive the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices; and send the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines to the client.
2. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to send cache miss data to the host, the cache miss data representing cache line requests received by the programmable switch.
3. The programmable switch of claim 2, wherein the circuitry is further configured to mirror packets for received cache line requests to a port of the plurality of ports to provide the host with the cache miss data.
4. The programmable switch of claim 2, wherein the circuitry is further configured to receive updated prefetch information from the host, the updated prefetch information having been prepared by the host based on the cache miss data sent from the programmable switch to the host and execution of a memory access prediction algorithm by the host.
5. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein the client is configured to execute an internal memory access prediction algorithm for loading locally stored cache lines into a memory of the client from a storage device of the client in addition to requesting cache lines from the programmable switch.
6. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein the programmable switch forms part of a Software Defined Networking (SDN).
7. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein the cache line request follows a custom packet format including one or more fields indicating a memory message.
8. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein before sending the one or more additional cache lines to the client, the circuitry is further configured to: store the one or more additional cache lines in a memory of the programmable switch; send the requested cache line and one or more prefetch hints to the client indicating the one or more additional cache lines; receive a permission request from the client in response to the one or more prefetch hints, the permission request requesting access to the one or more additional cache lines; and in response to receiving the permission request from the client, sending the one or more additional cache lines stored in the memory.
9. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein before requesting the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices, the circuitry is further configured to: send the requested cache line and one or more prefetch hints to the client indicating the one or more additional cache lines; receive a permission request from the client in response to the one or more prefetch hints, the permission request requesting access to the one or more additional cache lines; and in response to receiving the permission request from the client, requesting the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices to send to the client.
10. The programmable switch of claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to compare an address for the data requested by the cache line request to addresses stored in a match-action table to identify a matching address.
11. The programmable switch of claim 10, wherein the circuitry is further configured to calculate one or more offset addresses for the matching address to identify the one or more additional cache lines.
12. A method of providing a distributed cache, the method comprising: receiving a cache line request from a client of a plurality of clients on a network to obtain a cache line; identifying one or more additional cache lines to obtain based on the received cache line request and prefetch information; requesting the cache line and the identified one or more additional cache lines from one or more memory devices on the network; receiving the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices; and sending the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines to the client.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising sending cache miss data representing received cache line requests to a host by mirroring packets received for cache line requests.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising receiving updated prefetch information from the host, the updated prefetch information having been prepared by the host based on the cache miss data sent to the host and execution of a memory access prediction algorithm by the host.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the client executes an internal memory access prediction algorithm for loading locally stored cache lines into a memory of the client from a storage device of the client in addition to requesting cache lines from the programmable switch.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein before sending the one or more additional cache lines to the client, the method further comprises: sending the requested cache line and one or more prefetch hints to the client indicating the one or more additional cache lines; receiving a permission request from the client in response to the one or more prefetch hints, the permission request requesting access to the one or more additional cache lines; and in response to receiving the permission request from the client, sending the one or more additional cache lines.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein before requesting the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices, the method further comprises: sending the requested cache line and one or more prefetch hints to the client indicating the one or more additional cache lines; receiving a permission request from the client in response to the one or more prefetch hints, the permission request requesting access to the one or more additional cache lines; and in response to receiving the permission request from the client, requesting the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices to send to the client.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising comparing an address for the cache line requested by the cache line request to addresses stored in a match-action table to identify a matching address.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising calculating one or more offset addresses for the matching address to identify the one or more additional cache lines.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer-executable instructions, wherein when the computer-executable instructions are executed by a controller of a programmable switch, the computer-executable instructions cause the controller to: receive a cache line request from a client of a plurality of clients on a network to obtain a cache line; identify one or more additional cache lines to obtain based on the received cache line request and prefetch information; request the cache line and the identified one or more additional cache lines from one or more memory devices on the network; receive the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines from the one or more memory devices; and send the requested cache line and the one or more additional cache lines to the client.
21. A system, comprising: a programmable switch; one or more memory devices configured to communicate with the programmable switch; and a host configured to communicate with the programmable switch; and wherein the programmable switch is configured to: receive prefetch information from the host; receive cache line requests from one or more clients to obtain cache lines from the one or more memory devices; send cache miss data to the host, the cache miss data representing the cache line requests received by the programmable switch; and identify additional cache lines to obtain for at least a portion of the received cache line requests based on the received cache line requests and the prefetch information received from the host.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the programmable switch is further configured to mirror packets for the received cache line requests to provide the host with the cache miss data.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the host is further configured to: receive the cache miss data from the programmable switch; prepare updated cache miss information based on the received cache miss data using a memory access prediction algorithm; and send the updated cache miss information to the programmable switch.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the cache line requests follow a custom packet format including one or more fields indicating a memory message.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the programmable switch is further configured to: receive a cache line request from a client of the one or more clients; identify at least one additional cache line to obtain based on the received cache line request and the prefetch information; request the cache line and the identified at least one additional cache line from at least one memory device of the one or more memory devices; receive the requested cache line and the at least one additional cache line from the at least one memory device; and send the requested cache line and the at least one additional cache line to the client.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein before sending the at least one additional cache line to the client or before requesting the at least one additional cache line from the at least one memory device, the programmable switch is further configured to send the requested cache line and one or more prefetch hints to the client indicating the at least one additional cache line.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the programmable switch is further configured to compare addresses for the data requested by the cache line requests to addresses stored in a match-action table to identify matching addresses.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the programmable switch is further configured to calculate offset addresses for the matching addresses to identify the additional cache lines.
</claims>
</document>
