<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06N99/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUKHERJEE, MAHARAJ
DELUCA,LISA SEACAT
LECHNER, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727913
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT COMMUNICATION MESSAGE COMPLETION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments are provided for intelligent communication message completion in a computing system by a processor. A plurality of contextual factors associated with a communication dialog may be determined and learned. A communication message may be automatically completed according to the plurality of contextual factors associated with the communication dialog.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for intelligent communication message completion in a computing system by a processor, comprising: automatically completing a communication message according to a plurality of contextual factors associated with a communication dialog.
2. The method of claim 1, further including determining the plurality of contextual factors to complete text input data of the communication message using a machine learning operation.
3. The method of claim 1, further including classifying the plurality of contextual factors as primary factors or secondary factors, wherein the primary factors include at least a user profile, a geographical location, or combination thereof and the secondary factors include at least a selected period of time, weather data, calendar data, one or more events, a defined location, or a combination thereof.
4. The method of claim 3, further including automatically completing the communication message according to the primary factors, the secondary factors, or a combination thereof.
5. The method of claim 1, further including defining the plurality of contextual factors to include geolocation data, a time period, calendar data, a current status of one or more parties associated with the communication dialog, travel data, physical and biometric data of the one or more parties, user preferences, semantic preferences, or a combination thereof.
6. The method of claim 1, further including: learning one or more user preferences for preferred text data previously used in historical communication dialogs; and combining the one or more learned user preferences with the plurality of contextual factors for automatically completing the communication message.
7. The method of claim 1, further including initiating a machine learning mechanism to learn and predict one or more semantic candidates to complete or correct the communication message according to the plurality of contextual factors.
8. A system for intelligent communication message completion in a computing system, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: automatically complete a communication message according to a plurality of contextual factors associated with a communication dialog.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine the plurality of contextual factors to complete text input data of the communication message using a machine learning operation.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further classify the plurality of contextual factors as primary factors or secondary factors, wherein the primary factors include at least a user profile, a geographical location, or combination thereof and the secondary factors include at least a selected period of time, weather data, calendar data, one or more events, a defined location, or a combination thereof.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions further complete the communication message according to the primary factors, the secondary factors, or a combination thereof.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further define the plurality of contextual factors to include geolocation data, a time period, calendar data, a current status of one or more parties associated with the communication dialog, travel data, physical and biometric data of the one or more parties, user preferences, semantic preferences, or a combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: learn one or more user preferences for preferred text data previously used in historical communication dialogs; and combine the one or more learned user preferences with the plurality of contextual factors for automatically completing the communication message.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further initiate a machine learning mechanism to learn and predict one or more semantic candidates to complete or correct the communication message according to the plurality of contextual factors.
15. A computer program product for intelligent communication message completion by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that automatically completes a communication message according to a plurality of contextual factors associated with a communication dialog.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that determines the plurality of contextual factors to complete text input data of the communication message using a machine learning operation.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: classifies the plurality of contextual factors as primary factors or secondary factors, wherein the primary factors include at least a user profile, a geographical location, or combination thereof and the secondary factors include at least a selected period of time, weather data, calendar data, one or more events, a defined location, or a combination thereof; or completes the communication message according to the primary factors, the secondary factors, or a combination thereof.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that defines the plurality of contextual factors to include geolocation data, a time period, calendar data, a current status of one or more parties associated with the communication dialog, travel data, physical and biometric data of the one or more parties, user preferences, semantic preferences, or a combination thereof.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: learns one or more user preferences for preferred text data previously used in historical communication dialogs; and combines the one or more learned user preferences with the plurality of contextual factors for automatically completing the communication message.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that initiates a machine learning mechanism to learn and predict one or more semantic candidates to complete or correct the communication message according to the plurality of contextual factors.
</claims>
</document>
