<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N5/04,G16H10/60,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JEAN, NELSON
DE MAGALHAES, ARTHUR L.
MAGRO, AGUEDA MARTINEZ HERNANDEZ
TANIWA, ROBERT K.G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALIZED ACTIVITY ADVISER MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A processor(s) receives a profile of a user and ranks physical activities in a relational data structure based on the user profile to create a customized relational data structure of ranked physical activities for the user. The relational data structure maps physical activities to one or more associated attributes. An activity adviser model is produced specific to the user via machine learning by obtaining data related to physical activities performed by the user from one or more sensors, and receiving user wellness-related feedback related to the user-performed physical activities. The user wellness-related feedback includes a user ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed physical activities. The activity adviser model specific to the user is built by using the customized relational data structure, the data and the user wellness-related feedback. The processor(s) uses the activity adviser model to provide an activity-related recommendation to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a profile of a user; ranking, by the one or more processors, physical activities in a relational data structure, at least in part, based on the user profile to create a customized relational data structure of ranked physical activities for the user, the relational data structure mapping physical activities to one or more associated attributes; producing, by the one or more processors via machine learning, an activity adviser model specific to the user, the producing comprising: obtaining data related to physical activities performed by the user from one or more sensors proximate to the user; receiving user wellness-related feedback related to the user-performed physical activities, the user wellness-related feedback including a user ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed physical activities; and building the activity adviser model specific to the user using the customized relational data structure, the data and the user wellness-related feedback; and using, by the one or more processors, the activity adviser model specific to the user to provide an activity-related recommendation to the user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the activity-related recommendation is selected from the group consisting of: a physical activity to be performed by the user based on a food choice of the user, and a food to be consumed by the user based on a physical activity choice of the user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the activity adviser model specific to the user relates, at least in part, ranked physical activities for the user to recommended food consumption for the ranked physical activities.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: building, by the one or more processors, the relational data structure that maps physical activities to one or more associated attributes, the building being based on a body of domain knowledge obtained from a plurality of online sources; and wherein the building the relational data structure comprises cognitively analyzing, by the one or more processors, the body of domain knowledge obtained from the plurality of online sources to build the relational data structure.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the cognitively analyzing extracts from the body of domain knowledge obtained from the plurality of online sources a recommended food and time of consumption for a physical activity of the relational data structure, the time of consumption being selected from the group consisting of: a time before the physical activity, a time during the physical activity, and a time after the physical activity.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the body of domain knowledge obtained from the plurality of online sources comprises one or more training application-based sources and one or more other online sources relating, at least in part, physical activity and food consumption.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user profile comprises data on one or more user inputs, the one or more user inputs being selected from the group consisting of user goals and user health restrictions, and wherein the ranking of the physical activities in the relational data structure is based, at least in part, on the one or more user inputs.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data obtained related to the physical activities performed by the user is selected from the group consisting of: user physiological data, user heart rate, user blood pressure, user blood oxygen saturation, and user temperature, and the data is obtained before, during, or after one or more of the physical activities.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user wellness-related feedback includes a user ranking of multiple aspects of a user-performed physical activity based on user perception, the user ranking of the multiple aspects including at least some of a user ranking of length of the physical activity, a user ranking of how the user feels during the physical activity, a user ranking of user enjoyment of the physical activity, and a user ranking of ease of the physical activity to the user.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user wellness-related feedback includes user-provided data on food consumed by the user in association with a physical activity of the physical activities performed by the user.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising dynamically updating over time the activity adviser model based on new data, the new data being selected from the group consisting of: one or more updates to a body of domain knowledge used to build the relational data structure, further data obtained related to further physical activities performed by the user from the one or more sensors proximate to the user, and further user wellness-related feedback received from the user related to the further user-performed physical activities.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising dynamically updating the activity adviser model specific to the user over time, the dynamically updating being based, at least in part, on additional user wellness-related feedback related to the user performing one or more physical activities of the physical activities, the additional user wellness-related feedback including, at least in part, a re-ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed one or more physical activities.
13. A computer system comprising: a memory; and a processor in communication with the memory, wherein the computer system is configured to perform a method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a profile of a user; ranking, by the one or more processors, physical activities in a relational data structure, at least in part, based on the user profile to create a customized relational data structure of ranked physical activities for the user, the relational data structure mapping physical activities to one or more associated attributes; producing, by the one or more processors via machine learning, an activity adviser model specific to the user, the producing comprising: obtaining data related to physical activities performed by the user from one or more sensors proximate to the user; receiving user wellness-related feedback related to the user-performed physical activities, the user wellness-related feedback including a user ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed physical activities; and building the activity adviser model specific to the user using the customized relational data structure, the data and the user wellness-related feedback; and using, by the one or more processors, the activity adviser model specific to the user to provide an activity-related recommendation to the user.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the activity-related recommendation is selected from the group consisting of: a physical activity to be performed by the user based on a food choice of the user, and a food to be consumed by the user based on a physical activity choice of the user.
15. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the activity adviser model specific to the user relates, at least in part, ranked physical activities for the user to recommended food consumption for the ranked physical activities.
16. The computer system of claim 13, further comprising dynamically updating over time the activity adviser model based on new data, the new data being selected from the group consisting of: one or more updates to a body of domain knowledge used to build the relational data structure, further data obtained related to further physical activities performed by the user from the one or more sensors proximate to the user, and further user wellness-related feedback received from the user related to the further user-performed physical activities.
17. The computer system of claim 13, further comprising dynamically updating the activity adviser model specific to the user over time, the dynamically updating being based, at least in part, on additional user wellness-related feedback related to the user performing one or more physical activities of the physical activities, the additional user wellness-related feedback including, at least in part, a re-ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed one or more physical activities.
18. A computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium readable by a processing circuit and storing instructions for execution by the processing circuit for performing a method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a profile of a user; ranking, by the one or more processors, physical activities in a relational data structure, at least in part, based on the user profile to create a customized relational data structure of ranked physical activities for the user, the relational data structure mapping physical activities to one or more associated attributes; producing, by the one or more processors via machine learning, an activity adviser model specific to the user, the producing comprising: obtaining data related to physical activities performed by the user from one or more sensors proximate to the user; receiving user wellness-related feedback related to the user-performed physical activities, the user wellness-related feedback including a user ranking of one or more aspects of the user-performed physical activities; and building the activity adviser model specific to the user using the customized relational data structure, the data and the user wellness-related feedback; and using, by the one or more processors, the activity adviser model specific to the user to provide an activity-related recommendation to the user.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the activity-related recommendation is selected from the group consisting of: a physical activity to be performed by the user based on a food choice of the user, and a food to be consumed by the user based on a physical activity choice of the user.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the activity adviser model specific to the user relates, at least in part, ranked physical activities for the user to recommended food consumption for the ranked physical activities.
</claims>
</document>
