<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06K9/62,H04L29/06,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FLYING CLOUD TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHRISTIAN, BRIAN P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097287
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data surveillance for privileged assets based on threat streams
</title>

<abstract>
Data surveillance techniques are presented for the detection of security issues, especially of the kind where privileged data may be stolen by steganographic, data manipulation or any form of exfiltration attempts. Such attempts may be made by rogue users or admins from the inside of a network, or from outside hackers who are able to intrude into the network and impersonate themselves as legitimate users. The system and methods use a triangulation process whereby analytical results pertaining to data protocol, user-behavior and packet content are combined to establish a baseline for the data. Subsequent incoming data is then scored and compared against the baseline to detect any security anomalies. The above data surveillance techniques are also applied for detecting intentional or unintentional exfiltration/leak of privileged data/assets between unauthorized users/groups of the organization. Such detection may be performed based on analyzing threat stream data from threat intelligence providers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method executing computer program instructions stored in a non-transitory storage medium and comprising the steps of: (a) analyzing first data of an organization, said first data related to a computer system on a computer network of said organization; (b) analyzing second data from a threat stream; (c) establishing an evolving baseline for said computer system by assigning each packet of said first data and each packet of said second data to a cluster of packets amongst a plurality of clusters of packets; (d) computing an absolute distance between said each packet of said first data and a center of said cluster of said packets, and between said each packet of said second data and a center of said cluster of said packets; (e) scoring, based on its distance from a centroid of said evolving baseline, each packet of said first data; and (f) based on said distance, determining if said each packet of said first data represents an anomaly in said computer network.
2. The method of claim 1 performing said assigning by minimizing an objective function given by a value computed by squaring said absolute distance in said step (d) and summing said value across a plurality of packets of said first data and said second data and further summing said value across said plurality of said clusters of said packets of said first data and said second data.
3. The method of claim 1 applying context triggered piecewise hashing (CTPH) for said scoring in said step (e).
4. The method of claim 1 selecting said computer system as one of a product lifecycle management (PLM) system, an intellectual property (IP) system, a human resources (HR) system, a financial system, a sales system, a marketing system, a planning system, a production system, an operations system, an information technology (IT) security system, a source code control system, a personnel security system, an active file repository system, a workflow management system and a collaboration system.
5. The method of claim 4, with said first data comprising one or more of a portable document format (PDF) file, a document file, a drawing file, a presentation file, a spreadsheet file, an image file, a software code file, an intellectual property file, a text file and a binary file.
6. The method of claim 4, operating said computer system on said computer network at one of internally in said organization and externally in a cloud.
7. The method of claim 1, recording said anomaly in a ledger.
8. The method of claim 1, performing said steps (a) through (f) in a master device of said computer network and communicating said evolving baseline to an agent device of said computer network.
9. The method of claim 1, analyzing a drift of said centroid in accordance with the activities of said organization.
10. The method of claim 1, based on said steps (a) through (f), establishing a context of an event in said organization.
11. The method of claim 1, based on said context, taking an action in a "kill chain" of said event.
12. A data surveillance system including computer-readable instructions stored in a non-transitory storage media and at least one microprocessor coupled to said storage media for executing said computer-readable instructions, said at least one microprocessor configured to: (a) analyze first data of an organization, said first data related to a computer system connected to a computer network of said organization; (b) analyze second data from a threat stream; (c) establish a rolling baseline of said computer system by assigning each packet of said first data and each packet of said second data, to a cluster of packets amongst a plurality of clusters of packets; (d) compute an absolute distance between said each packet of said first data and a center of said cluster of said packets, and between said each packet of said second data and a center of said cluster of said packets; (e) score, based on its distance from a centroid of said rolling baseline, each packet of said first data; and (f) based on said score, determine if said each packet of said first data represents an anomaly in said computer network.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein said assigning is done by minimizing an objective function given by a value computed by squaring said absolute distance of said element (d) and then summing said value across a plurality of packets of said first data and said second data and further summing said value across said plurality of said clusters of said packets of said first data and said second data.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein context triggered piecewise hashing (CTPH) is used to compute said score of said each packet of said second data.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein said computer system is one of a product lifecycle management (PLM) system, an intellectual property (IP) system, a human resources (HR) system, a financial system, a sales system, a marketing system, a planning system, a production system, an operations system, an information technology (IT) security system, a source code control system, a personnel security system, an active file repository system, a workflow management system and a collaboration system.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein said first data comprises one or more of a portable document format (PDF) file, a document file, a drawing file, a presentation file, a spreadsheet file, an image file, a software code file, an intellectual property file, a text file and a binary file.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein one or more users of said computer system belong to a partner of said organization.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein said anomaly is recorded in a ledger.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein said at least one microprocessor belongs to a master device of said computer network, and wherein said master device communicates said rolling baseline to an agent device of said computer network.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein said at least one microprocessor is further configured to analyze a drift of said centroid in accordance with the activities of said organization.
</claims>
</document>
