<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DIDI RESEARCH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOU, TINGBO
ZHANG, YAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PRE-PROCESSING IN A LANE MARKING DETERMINATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and processes can reduce or divide images of road networks into sub-images that depict straight or substantially straight sections of roads in the road networks. These sub-images or image segments can be normalized by, for example, rotating each of the sub-images such that the depicted roads are horizontal or otherwise share the same angle. By aligning disparate images of roads, it is possible to both reduce the amount of training data used to generate a machine learning model and to increase the accuracy of an automated lane marking or labelling system. Further, the use of normalized images by the machine learning model enables a reduction in computing resources used to perform automated lane marking processes while maintaining or improving accuracy of the lane marking processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of pre-processing images from a map image to facilitate an automated process of determining lane markings, the computer-implemented method comprising: as implemented by a map image processing system comprising one or more hardware processors and configured with specific computer-executable instructions, receiving an image of a road network; converting the image to a binary image; using the binary image to identify a road within the road network; dividing a portion of the image including a depiction of the road into image segments, each image segment including a depiction of a road segment of the road; determining a target axis for road segments of the road; rotating at least one image segment to align the road segment depicted in the at least one image segment with the target axis; and using the rotated at least one image segment to identify lane markings within the image of the road network.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image comprises a map of the road network.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image comprises a top-down two-dimensional view of the road network.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the image comprises a high definition image.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising cropping a portion of at least one of the image segments to exclude content that does not depict a portion of the road segment from the at least one image segment.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the target axis comprises a horizontal axis.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing the rotated at least one image segment at a mapping repository, wherein the mapping repository stores training data for a model generation system that generates a machine learning model to automatically identify lane markings in images of road networks.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising storing an indication of a degree of rotation of the rotated at least one image segment at the mapping repository.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said using the binary image to identify the road within the road network comprises: determining contours of the road based on a transition between black and white pixels in the binary image; selecting a plurality of inflection points within the binary image; based at least in part on a comparison of gradients among the plurality of inflection points, identifying a starting position and an ending position of the road; and identifying the road based on the identified starting position and the identified ending position.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing the rotated at least one image segment and an overlay comprising the identified lane markings to a machine learning model generation system as training data to generate a machine learning model that identifies lane markings in images of road networks.
11. A system for pre-processing images from a map image to facilitate an automated process of determining lane markings, the system comprising: a non-volatile storage configured to store images of road networks; and a map image processing system comprising one or more hardware processors configured to: access an image of a road network from the non-volatile storage; convert the image to a grayscale image; use the grayscale image to identify a road within the road network; generate image segments based on a portion of the image including a depiction of the road, each image segment including a depiction of a road segment of the road; determine a target axis for road segments of the road; rotate at least one image segment to align the road segment depicted in the at least one image segment with the target axis; and use the rotated at least one image segment to identify lane markings within the image of the road network.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the map image processing system is further configured to crop a portion of at least one of the image segments to exclude content that does not depict a portion of the road segment from the at least one image segment.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the map image processing system is further configured to store the rotated at least one image segment at the non-volatile storage, and wherein the non-volatile storage is further configured to store training data for a model generation system that generates a machine learning model to automatically identify lane markings in images of road networks.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the map image processing system is further configured to store a measurement of a degree of rotation of the rotated at least one image segment at the non-volatile storage.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the map image processing system is further configured to use the rotated at least one image segment to identify lane markings within the image of the road network by at least: determining contours of the road based on a transition between at least two color gradients in the grayscale image; selecting a plurality of inflection points within the grayscale image; based at least in part on a comparison of gradients among the plurality of inflection points, identifying a starting position and an ending position of the road; and identifying the road based on the identified starting position and the identified ending position.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the map image processing system is further configured to provide the rotated at least one image segment and the identified lane markings to a machine learning model generation system as training data to generate a machine learning model that identifies lane markings in images of road networks.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that, when executed by one or more computing devices, configure the one or more computing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving an image of a road network; converting the image to a binary image; using the binary image to identify a road within the road network; generating image segments based on a portion of the image including a depiction of the road, each image segment including a depiction of a road segment of the road; determining a target axis for road segments of the road; rotating at least one image segment to align the road segment depicted in the at least one image segment with the target axis; and using the rotated at least one image segment to identify lane markings within the image of the road network.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise removing a portion of at least one of the image segments to exclude content that does not depict a portion of the road segment from the at least one image segment.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise using the rotated at least one image segment to identify lane markings within the image of the road network by: determining contours of the road based on a transition between black and white pixels in the binary image; selecting a plurality of inflection points within the binary image; based at least in part on a comparison of gradients among the plurality of inflection points, identifying a starting position and an ending position of the road; and identifying the road based on the identified starting position and the identified ending position.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise providing the rotated at least one image segment and the identified lane markings to a machine learning model generation system as training data to generate a machine learning model that identifies lane markings in images of road networks.
</claims>
</document>
