<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/23,G06F16/2455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LUNAPBC
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAIN, ROBERT C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65139260
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNITY DATA AGGREGATION WITH COHORT DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are disclosed for the collection and aggregation of data from contributing members of a community, such as health-related, personal, genomic, medical, and other data of interest for individuals and populations. Contributors become members of a community upon creation of an account and providing of data or files. The data is received and processed, such as to analyze, structure, perform quality control, and curate the data. Value or shares in one or more community databases are computed and attributed to each contributing member. The data is controlled to avoid identification or personalization. Steps are taken to determine incompleteness and incorrectness of the data, and the data may be improved or completed automatically, based upon interaction with members, additional contributions of data, and so forth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-92. (canceled)
93. A system comprising: a server device including a processor and memory that cooperate to, in operation, facilitate interaction with contributing members of an aggregation; a database maintained by an administrative entity that, in operation, stores and aggregates the member-specific contributed data transmitted by contributing members with member-specific contributed data contributed by other contributing members; and processing circuitry maintained by the administrative entity that, in operation, processes member-specific account data received from the contributing members via interface pages to establish member-specific accounts based on the member-specific account data, and attributes a member-specific value to the member-specific accounts based upon respective member-specific contributed data; wherein the stored and aggregated member-specific contributed data is de-identified from the stored member-specific account data; and wherein at least part of the member-specific contributed data is transformed from a form received from contributing members to a structured and standard format prior to storage in the database and the aggregation is performed on the structured and standard format member-specific contributed data; and wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the aggregated member-specific contributed data to determine cohorts of contributing members based upon correlations between the member-specific contributed data for each contributing member; and wherein the processing circuitry permits communications with contributing members of a cohort without revealing identification of respective contributing members to the administrative entity.
94. The system of claim 93, wherein a cohort is determined based upon at least one parameter that is common to all contributing members of the determined cohort.
95. The system of claim 93, wherein a cohort is determined based upon a criterion established by a third party analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
96. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts by periodic analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
97. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts by episodic analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data, or upon contribution of data by a new member, or upon entry of new contributed data by an existing member, or following correcting, updating, or improving a statistical fit.
98. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data initiated by at least one contributing member.
99. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data initiated by identification of a physical condition potentially detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
100. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data initiated by identification of a new treatment of a physical condition detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
101. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data initiated by identification of a new examination, test, or omic pattern useful in determining a physical condition detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
102. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts without identification of the contributing members to the administrative entity.
103. The system of claim 93, wherein the cohorts comprise contributing members sharing a physical or health condition.
104. The system of claim 93, wherein the cohorts comprise contributing members sharing a disease state, condition, or sensitivity.
105. The system of claim 93, wherein the cohorts comprise contributing members sharing a potential legal claim.
106. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry permits communications between contributing members of a cohort without revealing identification of respective contributing members to the administrative entity.
107. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry permits communications between contributing members of a cohort without revealing identification of respective contributing members to other contributing members unless such identification is done by the respective contributing members.
108. The system of claim 93, wherein types of member-specific contributed data comprise at least two of omic data, phenotype data, health data, personal data, familial data, demographic data, employment data, and environmental data.
109. The system of claim 108, wherein the determination of cohorts is initiated based upon analysis of one type of data followed by analysis of different types of data.
110. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry permits contributing members to opt out of analysis to determine cohorts.
111. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry permits contributing members or third parties to request that other members contribute additional data to improve a statistical fit of data from potential cohort members of a determined cohort group.
112. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry permits contributing members or third parties to request that other members contribute additional data to improve a statistical fit of data from potential cohort members of a determined cohort group based on using an analytical tool to identify types of information likely to be valuable in improving the statistical fit.
113. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to perform quality control operations on the contributed data prior to determination of the cohorts.
114. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry transfers an asset amount to each member-specific account based upon the member-specific value, and wherein the user-specific value is attributed as a currency and/or a cryptocurrency and/or an ownership share in the database or database maintaining company.
115. The system of claim 93, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to make ledger entries in an immutable and/or cryptographically encoded ledger and/or a blockchain based upon interaction with the contributing members.
116. A system comprising: a server device including a processor and memory that cooperate to, in operation, facilitate interaction with contributing members of an aggregation; a database maintained by an administrative entity that, in operation, stores and aggregates the member-specific contributed data transmitted by contributing members with member-specific contributed data contributed by other contributing members; and processing circuitry maintained by the administrative entity that, in operation, processes member-specific account data received from the contributing members via interface pages to establish member-specific accounts based on the member-specific account data, and attributes a member-specific value to the member-specific accounts based upon respective member-specific contributed data; wherein the stored and aggregated member-specific contributed data is de-identified from the stored member-specific account data; and wherein at least part of the member-specific contributed data is transformed from a form received from contributing members to a structured and standard format prior to storage in the database and the aggregation is performed on the structured and standard format member-specific contributed data; and wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the aggregated member-specific contributed data to determine cohorts of contributing members based upon correlations between the member-specific contributed data for each contributing member; and wherein the member-specific value is at least partially based upon use of the member-specific data of the respective contributing member by a third party; and wherein the processing circuitry permits communications with contributing members of a cohort without revealing identification of respective contributing members to the administrative entity.
117. The system of claim 116, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data initiated by identification of a physical condition potentially detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
118. The system of claim 117, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts based upon a patient health journey detectable from the member-specific contributed data of the respective contributing member.
119. A system comprising: a server device including a processor and memory that cooperate to, in operation, facilitate interaction with contributing members of an aggregation; a database maintained by an administrative entity that, in operation, stores and aggregates the member-specific contributed data transmitted by contributing members with member-specific contributed data contributed by other contributing members; and processing circuitry maintained by the administrative entity that, in operation, processes member-specific account data received from the contributing members via interface pages to establish member-specific accounts based on the member-specific account data, and attributes a member-specific value to the member-specific accounts based upon respective member-specific contributed data; wherein the stored and aggregated member-specific contributed data is de-identified from the stored member-specific account data; and wherein at least part of the member-specific contributed data is transformed from a form received from contributing members to a structured and standard format prior to storage in the database and the aggregation is performed on the structured and standard format member-specific contributed data; and wherein the processing circuitry permits analysis the aggregated member-specific contributed data by both an administrative entity and a third party to determine cohorts of contributing members based upon correlations between the member-specific contributed data for each contributing member; and wherein the processing circuitry permits communications with contributing members of a cohort by the administrative entity, other members of the cohort, and third parties, without revealing identification of respective contributing members to the administrative entity.
120. The system of claim 119, wherein a cohort is determined based upon at least one parameter that is common to all contributing members of the determined cohort.
121. The system of claim 119, wherein a cohort is determined based upon a criterion established by the third party analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
122. The system of claim 119, wherein the processing circuitry determines the cohorts by episodic analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data, or upon contribution of data by a new member, or upon entry of new contributed data by an existing member, or following correcting, updating, or improving a statistical fit.
</claims>
</document>
