<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W60/00,G08G1/00,G08G1/048,H04W4/029,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
FORSTER, JACOB ROBERT
GAO, SHENGLONG
NIEMIEC, KONRAD JULIAN
VOZNESENSKY, MICHAEL
Singh, Shubhit Mohan
Smith, Carol Jacobs
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749193
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICES FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE USER POSITIONING AND SUPPORT
</title>

<abstract>
Various examples are directed to systems and methods for supporting an autonomous vehicle user. A user computing device may send a service arrangement system a service request describing a payload to be transported. The user computing device may receive from the service arrangement system, a service confirmation message describing a stopping location for a user to meet an autonomous vehicle and autonomous vehicle data describing the autonomous vehicle. The user computing device may also receive a first wireless signal from a first wireless beacon and determine a first location of the user computing device using the first wireless signal. The user computing device may display at a display of the user computing device, a direction from the first location of the user computing device to the stopping location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for supporting an autonomous vehicle user, comprising: a user computing device comprising at least one processor and a machine-readable medium comprising instructions thereon that, when executed by the at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: sending to a service arrangement system a service request describing a payload to be transported; receiving, from the service arrangement system, a service confirmation message describing a stopping location for a user to meet an autonomous vehicle and autonomous vehicle data describing the autonomous vehicle; receiving a first wireless signal from a first wireless beacon; determining a first location of the user computing device using the first wireless signal; and displaying at a display of the user computing device, a direction from the first location of the user computing device to the stopping location.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first wireless signal comprises location data indicating a location of the first wireless beacon.
3. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising receiving from the service arrangement system a first wireless beacon location for the first wireless beacon, wherein the determining of the first location of the user computing device is also based at least in part on the first wireless beacon location.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first wireless beacon location is received at a first time, the operations further comprising receiving a second wireless beacon location of the first wireless beacon, the second wireless beacon location received at a second time after the first time; and receiving a second wireless signal from the first wireless beacon after receiving the first wireless signal; and generating a second location of the user computing device based at least in part on the second wireless beacon location and the second wireless signal.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising the service arrangement system, the service arrangement system programmed to perform operations comprising: receiving the service request; selecting the autonomous vehicle for executing a service described by the service request; accessing an indication of a stopping location for the autonomous vehicle, the stopping location associated with the service; and sending the service confirmation message to the user computing device.
6. The system of claim 5, the operations executed by the service arrangement system further comprising receiving roadway condition data from the first wireless beacon, wherein the selecting of the autonomous vehicle is based at least in part on the roadway condition data.
7. The system of claim 5, the operations executed by the service arrangement system further comprising: receiving, from the first wireless beacon, data indicating that the autonomous vehicle is present at the stopping location; and sending to the user computing device an indication that the autonomous vehicle is present at the stopping location.
8. The system of claim 5, the operations executed by the service arrangement system further comprising: receiving stopping location availability data from at least one wireless beacon; and selecting the stopping location based at least in part on the stopping location availability data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first wireless signal indicates that the autonomous vehicle is present at the stopping location.
10. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving vehicle data from the first wireless beacon; and uploading the vehicle data to the service arrangement system.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising the first wireless beacon, the first wireless beacon being programmed to perform operations comprising: accessing first device data; and transmitting the first device data to a second device for uploading to the service arrangement system.
12. A method for supporting an autonomous vehicle user, comprising: sending, by a user computing device to a service arrangement system, a service request describing a payload to be transported; receiving, by the user computing device and from the service arrangement system, a service confirmation message describing a stopping location for a user to meet an autonomous vehicle and autonomous vehicle data describing the autonomous vehicle; receiving, by the user computing device, a first wireless signal from a first wireless beacon; determining, by the user computing device, a first location of the user computing device using the first wireless signal; and displaying at a display of the user computing device, a direction from the first location of the user computing device to the stopping location.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first wireless signal comprises location data indicating a location of the first wireless beacon.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving, by the user computing device and from the service arrangement system, a first wireless beacon location for the first wireless beacon, wherein the determining of the first location of the user computing device is also based at least in part on the first wireless beacon location.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first wireless beacon location is received at a first time, further comprising receiving, by the user computing device, a second wireless beacon location of the first wireless beacon, the second wireless beacon location received at a second time after the first time; and receiving, by the user computing device, a second wireless signal from the first wireless beacon after receiving the first wireless signal; and generating, by the user computing device, a second location of the user computing device based at least in part on the second wireless beacon location and the second wireless signal.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the first wireless signal indicates that the autonomous vehicle is present at the stopping location.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the user computing device, vehicle data from the first wireless beacon; and uploading, by the user computing device, the vehicle data to the service arrangement system.
18. A machine-readable medium comprising instructions thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: sending to a service arrangement system a service request describing a payload to be transported; receiving, from the service arrangement system, a service confirmation message describing a stopping location for a user to meet an autonomous vehicle and autonomous vehicle data describing the autonomous vehicle; receiving a first wireless signal from a first wireless beacon; determining a first location of a user computing device using the first wireless signal; and displaying at a display of the user computing device, a direction from the first location of the user computing device to the stopping location.
19. The medium of claim 18, wherein the first wireless signal comprises location data indicating a location of the first wireless beacon.
20. The medium of claim 18, the operations further comprising receiving from the service arrangement system a first wireless beacon location for the first wireless beacon, wherein the determining of the first location of the user computing device is also based at least in part on the first wireless beacon location.
</claims>
</document>
