<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Vian Systems, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
OHSHIMA, Yoshiki
SIKKA, Vishal INDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71948736
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR MODIFYING NEURAL NETWORK DEFINITIONS
</title>

<abstract>
As described, an artificial intelligence (AI) design application exposes various tools to a user for generating, analyzing, evaluating, and describing neural networks. The AI design application includes a network generator that generates and/or updates program code that defines a neural network based on user interactions with a graphical depiction of the network architecture. The AI design application also includes a network analyzer that analyzes the behavior of the neural network at the layer level, neuron level, and weight level in response to test inputs. The AI design application further includes a network evaluator that performs a comprehensive evaluation of the neural network across a range of sample of training data. Finally, the AI design application includes a network descriptor that articulates the behavior of the neural network in natural language and constrains that behavior according to a set of rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating a neural network, the method comprising: receiving a neural network definition corresponding to a neural network via a graphical user interface; generating an architectural representation of the neural network based on the neural network definition for display via the graphical user interface; receiving a modification to the architectural representation of the neural network via the graphical user interface; generating a modified neural network definition corresponding to the neural network based on the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network; and generating an updated architectural representation of the neural network based on the modified neural network definition.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the neural network definition comprises program code that defines one or more neural network layers.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the architectural representation of the neural network graphically depicts one or more neural network layers.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises an addition of one or more neural network layers to the architectural representation of the neural network or a removal of one or more neural network layers from the architectural representation of the neural network.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises a change to at least one dimension associated with at least one neural network layer included in the architectural representation of the neural network.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises a change to at least one connection between at least two neural network layers included in the architectural representation of the neural network
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the modified neural network definition comprises updating a portion of program code corresponding to a portion of the architectural representation of the neural network impacted by the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the neural network is encompassed within a first agent that is coupled to a second agent, wherein the second agent does not encompass any neural networks and includes program code that, when executed, processes an output of the neural network.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising storing the neural network definition and the architectural representation of the neural network as a selectable agent that comprises an element within an artificial intelligence model.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving the neural network definition comprises receiving textual input via the graphical user interface.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing program instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to generate a neural network by performing the steps of: generating an architectural representation of the neural network based on a neural network definition corresponding to the neural network for display via a graphical user interface; receiving a modification to the architectural representation of the neural network via the graphical user interface; generating a modified neural network definition corresponding to the neural network based on the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network; and generating an updated architectural representation of the neural network based on the modified neural network definition.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the neural network definition comprises program code that defines one or more neural network layers.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the architectural representation of the neural network graphically depicts one or more neural network layers.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises an addition of one or more neural network layers to the architectural representation of the neural network or a removal of one or more neural network layers from the architectural representation of the neural network.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises a change to at least one dimension associated with at least one neural network layer included in the architectural representation of the neural network.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises a change to at least one connection between at least two neural network layers included in the architectural representation of the neural network
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network comprises a change to a layer type associated with at least one neural network layer included in the architectural representation of the neural network.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, further comprising receiving the neural network definition by receiving program code input via the graphical user interface, wherein then program code is executed to cause the neural network to perform an inference operation.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, further comprising the step of displaying the modified neural network definition and the updated architectural representation of the neural network via the graphical user interface.
20. A system, comprising: a memory storing a software application; and a processor that, when executing the software application, is configured to perform the steps of: receiving a neural network definition corresponding to a neural network via a graphical user interface, generating an architectural representation of the neural network based on the neural network definition for display via the graphical user interface, receiving a modification to the architectural representation of the neural network via the graphical user interface, generating a modified neural network definition corresponding to the neural network based on the modification to the architectural representation of the neural network, and generating an updated architectural representation of the neural network based on the modified neural network definition.
</claims>
</document>
