<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,H04B17/336,H04B7/0452,H04B7/06,H04L1/00,H04L25/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LISTON, ROBERT EDWARD
SU, SHI
TAN, WAI-TIAN
WANG, KAIDONG
ZHU XIAOQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335745
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING-BASED WIRELESS TRANSMISSION PARAMETER ADAPTATION BASED ON CLIENT ACTIVITY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
An access point (AP) is configured to transmit packets to a client device over a communication channel. The AP determines a motion indictor indicative of motion of the client device based on a sequence of channel state information measurements, and measures a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). The AP selects a transmission parameter among candidate transmission parameters using a learning-based algorithm based on observation parameters including the motion indicator, the SNR, and a device identifier for the client device. The AP employs the transmission parameter to transmit packets to the client device, and measures a transmission performance associated with the transmission parameter based on the transmitted packets. The AP updates the learning-based algorithm based on the observation parameters and the transmission performance for a next pass through the selecting, the employing, and the measuring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at an access point configured to transmit packets to a client device over a communication channel used by the client device: determining a motion indictor indicative of motion of the client device based on a sequence of channel state information measurements; measuring a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the communication channel; selecting a transmission parameter among candidate transmission parameters using a learning-based algorithm based on observation parameters including the motion indicator, the SNR, and a device identifier for the client device; employing the transmission parameter to transmit packets to the client device; measuring a transmission performance associated with the transmission parameter based on the transmit packets; and updating the learning-based algorithm based on the observation parameters and the transmission performance for a next pass through the selecting, the employing, and the measuring.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the selecting includes selecting the transmission parameter to maximize a performance function that is dependent on the observation parameters and the transmission parameter; and the updating includes updating the performance function based on the observation parameters, the transmission parameter, and the transmission performance.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein: the performance function includes a table of expected values of transmission performance indexed by respective <motion indicator, candidate transmission parameter> tuples; and the selecting includes selecting, based on the table, the transmission parameter corresponding to a maximum one of the expected values of the transmission performance that is indexed by the motion indicator as determined.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the updating includes updating in the table the expected value of transmission performance indexed by <the motion indicator as determined, the transmission parameter> tuple as a function of the transmission performance.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein: the performance function includes a neural network-based performance function (DNN) that generates expected values of transmission performance based on the observation parameters, wherein each of the expected values of transmission performance is associated with a respective transmission parameter; and the selecting includes selecting the respective transmission parameter associated with a maximum one of the expected values of the transmission performance.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein: the updating includes updating the neural network-based performance function (DNN) by: generating as a training error a difference between an expected value of the performance function and the transmission performance; and updating the neural network-based performance function using a gradient method based on the training error and the observation parameters.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the selecting includes using a policy function that probabilistically maps the observation parameters to a recommended choice of the candidate transmission parameters that represents the transmission parameter.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether to select the transmission parameter using the learning-based algorithm or without using the learning-based algorithm; if it is determined to select the transmission parameter without using the learning-based based algorithm, selecting the transmission parameter without using the learning-based algorithm and without using the observation parameters; and if it determined to select the transmission parameter using the learning-based algorithm, performing the selecting using the learning-based algorithm.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the transmission parameter corresponds to an interval between channel state information sounding requests on which the channel state information measurements are based.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein: the selecting the transmission parameter without using the learning-based algorithm and without using the observation parameters includes selecting an under-used one of the candidate transmission parameters as the transmission parameter.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the transmission parameter includes selecting a combination of a modulation and coding (MCS) index, a spatial multiplexing mode, a channel bandwidth, a guard interval, and a forward error correction (FEC) code.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the transmission parameter includes selecting to use a number of spatial streams for the client device.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the transmission parameter includes selecting either to add the client device to a multi-user (MU) multiple-input and multiple-output (MIMO) (MU-MIMO) group or to add the client device to a single user (SU) MIMO (SU-MIMO) group.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmission parameter includes a physical (PHY) layer or a link layer transmission parameter.
15. An apparatus comprising: a radio to transmit packets to a client device over a communication channel used by the client device; and a processor coupled to the radio and configured to: determine a motion indictor indicative of motion of the client device based on a sequence of channel state information measurements; measure a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the communication channel; select a transmission parameter among candidate transmission parameters using a learning-based algorithm based on observation parameters including the motion indicator, the SNR, and a device identifier for the client device; employ the transmission parameter to transmit packets to the client device; measure a transmission performance associated with the transmission parameter based on the transmit packets; and update the learning-based algorithm based on the observation parameters and the transmission performance for a next pass through the select, the employ, and the measure operations.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to: select by selecting the transmission parameter to maximize a performance function that is dependent on the observation parameters and the transmission parameter; and update by updating the performance function based on the observation parameters, the transmission parameter, and the transmission performance.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to: select using a policy function that probabilistically maps the observation parameters to a recommended choice of the candidate transmission parameters that represents the transmission parameter.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor of an access point configured to transmit packets to a client device over a communication channel used by the client device, cause the processor to perform: determining a motion indictor indicative of motion of the client device based on a sequence of channel state information measurements; measuring a signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the communication channel; selecting a transmission parameter among candidate transmission parameters using a learning-based algorithm based on observation parameters including the motion indicator, the SNR, and a device identifier for the client device; employing the transmission parameter to transmit packets to the client device; measuring a transmission performance associated with the transmission parameter based on the transmit packets; and updating the learning-based algorithm based on the observation parameters and the transmission performance for a next pass through the selecting, the employing, and the measuring.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein: the instructions to cause the processor to perform the selecting include instructions to cause the processor to perform selecting the transmission parameter to maximize a performance function that is dependent on the observation parameters and the transmission parameter; and the instructions to cause the processor to perform the updating include instructions to cause the processor to perform the updating the performance function based on the observation parameters, the transmission parameter, and the transmission performance.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein: the instructions to cause the processor to perform the selecting include instructions to cause the process to perform the selectin using a policy function that probabilistically maps the observation parameters to a recommended choice of the candidate transmission parameters that represents the transmission parameter.
</claims>
</document>
