<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,B25J9/00,B25J9/08,B25J9/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, SANG HUN
SHIN, YONG KYOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550167
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACTION ROBOT, AUTHENTICATION METHOD THEREFOR, AND SERVER CONNECTED THERETO
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is an action robot including a figure including an authentication memory in which identification information is stored and a base configured to output an action using the figure when the figure is mounted. The base includes a figure driver configured to drive the figure such that the figure outputs a predetermined action, a communication transceiver configured to establish connection with a management server for performing authentication of the mounted figure, a figure authenticator configured to acquire the identification information stored in the authentication memory when the figure is mounted, and a processor configured to control the communication transceiver to transmit the acquired identification information to the management server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An action robot comprising: a figure including an authentication memory in which identification information is stored; and a base configured to output an action using the figure when the figure is mounted, wherein the base includes: a figure driver configured to drive the figure such that the figure outputs a predetermined action; a communication transceiver configured to establish connection with a management server for performing authentication of the mounted figure; a figure authenticator configured to acquire the identification information stored in the authentication memory when the figure is mounted; and a processor configured to control the communication transceiver to transmit the acquired identification information to the management server.
2. The action robot of claim 1, wherein the processor: receives a control signal related to an authentication result of the figure from the management server through the communication transceiver, and determines whether an action is output using the figure based on the received control signal.
3. The action robot of claim 2, wherein the processor prevents driving of the figure based on the received control signal when authentication of the figure by the management server has failed.
4. The action robot of claim 2, wherein the processor controls the figure driver to output an action using the figure when authentication of the figure by the management server has succeeded.
5. The action robot of claim 4, further comprising an output interface configured to output content data, wherein the processor controls the figure driver based on action control data corresponding to the content data.
6. The action robot of claim 5, wherein the content data and the action control data are received from a server or a terminal connected through the communication transceiver.
7. The action robot of claim 1, further comprising a memory configured to store the identification information of the base, wherein the processor transmits the identification information of the figure and the identification information of the base to the management server.
8. The action robot of claim 1, wherein the processor recognizes a type of the figure or authenticates compatibility of the figure, based on authentication data stored in a memory and the acquired identification information.
9. The action robot of claim 1, wherein the figure authenticator includes a near field communication (NFC) reader, and wherein the authentication memory includes an NFC tag.
10. A management server connected to an action robot including a figure configured to output an action and a base configured to drive the figure, the management server comprising: a communication transceiver configured to receive first identification information of the figure from the action robot; and a processor configured to: perform authentication of the figure based on the received first identification information and user information received from a terminal, and transmit a control signal for activating or deactivating driving of the figure to the action robot based on an result of performing authentication of the figure.
11. The management server of claim 10, wherein the processor: further receives second identification information of the base from the action robot, determines whether the received first identification information is present in a database, receives the user information from a terminal matching the second identification information when the first identification information is present in the database, and performs authentication of the figure depending on whether the received user information matches user information matching the first identification information.
12. The management server of claim 11, wherein the processor: transmits a control signal for activating driving of the figure to the action robot when the received user information matches the user information matching the first identification information, and transmits a control signal for deactivating driving of the figure to the action robot when the received user information does not match the user information matching the first identification information.
13. The management server of claim 11, wherein the processor: transmits authentication success notification to the terminal when the received user information matches the user information matching the first identification information, and transmits authentication failure notification to the terminal when the received user information does not match the user information matching the first identification information.
14. The management server of claim 11, wherein the processor: transmits a user information request to a terminal matching the second identification information when the first identification information is not present in the database, and stores the user information received from the terminal and the first identification information in the database.
15. A method of authenticating an action robot including a figure configured to output an action and a base configured to drive the figure, the method comprising: by a management server connected to the action robot, receiving first identification information of the figure and second identification information of the base from the action robot; receiving user information from a terminal matching the second identification information when the first identification information is present in a database; performing authentication of the figure depending on whether the received user information matches user information matching the first identification information; and activating or deactivating driving of the figure mounted on the base based on a result of performing authentication of the figure.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the performing of the authentication includes: recognizing authentication success when the received user information matches user information matching the first identification information, and recognizing authentication failure when the received user information does not match the user information matching the first identification information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the activating or deactivating of the driving of the figure includes: transmitting a control signal for activating driving of the robot to the action robot at the time of authentication success, and transmitting a control signal for deactivating driving of the robot to the action robot at the time of authentication failure.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving user information from a terminal matching the second identification information when the first identification information is not present in the database; and storing the received user information and the first identification information in the database.
</claims>
</document>
