<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/30,G06F9/445,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU PENG
OUYANG, JIAN
LI, HUIMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70008361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD EXECUTED BY COMPUTING DEVICE, APPARATUS, DEVICE AND COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method, executed by a computing device, for configuring a vector operation, an apparatus, a device, and a storage medium. The method includes obtaining information indicating at least one configurable vector operation parameter. The information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter indicates a type and a value of the configurable vector operation parameter. The method further includes: based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter, configuring multiple vector operation circuits to enable each of the vector operation circuits to execute a target vector operation including two or more basic vector operations and defined based on the type and value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, executed by a computing device, for configuring a vector operation, comprising: obtaining information indicating at least one configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter is configured to indicate a type and a value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter, configuring a plurality of vector operation circuits to enable each of the vector operation circuits to execute a target vector operation, wherein the target vector operation comprises two or more basic vector operations and defined based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the type of the configurable vector operation parameter comprises a scalar type and a vector type.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises: an explicit or implicit first indication, indicating that the type of the configuration vector operation parameter is the scalar type; and a scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein obtaining the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises: obtaining the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and storing the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a scalar storage device.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein configuring the plurality of vector operation circuits based on the type and value of the configurable vector operation parameter comprises: obtaining, by a selector, the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and applying the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter to each of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
6. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: obtaining a vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter; storing the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a vector storage device; and generating storage information of the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises the storage information.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the number of vector values of the configurable vector operation parameter corresponds to the number of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the information indicating the configurable vector operation parameter further comprises: an explicit or implicit second indication, indicating that the type of the configuration vector operation parameter is the vector type.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein configuring the plurality of vector operation circuits based on the type and value of the configurable vector operation parameter comprises: obtaining the storage information of the configuration vector operation parameter; obtaining, by a selector, the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter based on the storage information of the configuration vector operation parameter; and applying the, vector value of different component of the configurable vector operation parameter to respective vector operation circuits of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
10. An electronic device, comprising: one or more processors; and a storage device, configured to store one or more programs, wherein when the one or more programs are executed by the one or more processors, the one or more processors are caused to: obtain information indicating at least one configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter is configured to indicate a type and a value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter, configure a plurality of vector operation circuits to enable each of the vector operation circuits to execute a target vector operation, wherein the target vector operation comprises two or more basic vector operations and defined based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
11. The electronic device according to claim 10, wherein the type of the configurable vector operation parameter comprises a scalar type and a vector type.
12. The electronic device according to claim 11, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises: an explicit or implicit first indication, indicating that the type of the configuration vector operation parameter is the scalar type; and a scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
13. The electronic device according to claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are caused to obtain the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter by: obtaining the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and storing the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a scalar storage device.
14. The electronic device according to claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are caused to configure the plurality of vector operation circuits based on the type and value of the configurable vector operation parameter by: obtaining, by a selector, the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and applying the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter to each of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
15. The electronic device according to claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are caused to: obtain a vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter; store the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a vector storage device; and generate storage information of the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises the storage information.
16. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein the number of vector values of the configurable vector operation parameter corresponds to the number of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
17. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein the information indicating the configurable vector operation parameter further comprises: an explicit or implicit second indication, indicating that the type of the configuration vector operation parameter is the vector type.
18. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are caused to configure the plurality of vector operation circuits based on the type and value of the configurable vector operation parameter by: obtaining the storage information of the configuration vector operation parameter; obtaining, by a selector, the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter based on the storage information of the configuration vector operation parameter; and applying the vector value of different component of the configurable vector operation parameter to respective vector operation circuits of the plurality of the vector operation circuits.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having a computer program stored thereon, wherein when the program is executed by a processor, a method for configuring a vector operation is implemented, the method comprises: obtaining information indicating at least one configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter is configured to indicate a type and a value of the configurable vector operation parameter; and based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter, configuring a plurality of vector operation circuits to enable each of the vector operation circuits to execute a target vector operation, wherein the target vector operation comprises two or more basic vector operations and defined based on the type and the value of the configurable vector operation parameter.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 19, wherein the method further comprises: in response to detecting that the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises an explicit or implicit first indication, obtaining a scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter and storing the scalar value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a scalar storage device; and in response to detecting that the information indicating the at least one configurable vector operation parameter comprises an explicit or implicit second indication, obtaining a vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter; storing the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter to a vector storage device; and generating storage information of the vector value of the configurable vector operation parameter, wherein the first indication is configured to indicate a scalar type and the second indication is configured to indicate a vector type.
</claims>
</document>
