<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/10,G08G1/00,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TENG, QIMING
HWANG, JINHO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70970417
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISTRIBUTED TRAFFIC SCHEDULING FOR AUTONOMOUS SELF-DRIVING VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Distributed traffic scheduling for autonomous self-driving vehicles includes forming a vicinity group of autonomous vehicles by pinging each other using vehicle-to-vehicle communication. A leader vehicle of the vicinity group is elected by transmitting an election messages between each of the autonomous vehicles, each autonomous vehicle responding to a received election message with a vote, the leader vehicle being elected by receiving the most votes. Preferences of a driver of each of the autonomous vehicles are predicted with a classifier by extracting preference labels from online account data. Trip deadline is determined for each autonomous vehicle according to the preferences. Each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group is scheduled to prevent exceeding the trip deadline by performing earliest deadline first scheduling by the leader vehicle. Maneuvers of each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group are controlled according to the scheduling.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for scheduling traffic of autonomous vehicles, the method comprising: forming a vicinity group of autonomous vehicles by pinging other using vehicle-to-vehicle communication; electing a leader vehicle of the vicinity group by transmitting an election message to each of the autonomous vehicles from each other of the autonomous vehicles, each autonomous vehicle responding to a received election message with a vote, the leader vehicle being elected by receiving the most votes of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group; predicting preferences of a driver corresponding to each of the autonomous vehicles with a classifier by extracting preference labels from online account data; determining a trip deadline for each autonomous vehicle according to the corresponding preferences; scheduling each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group to prevent exceeding the trip deadline by performing earliest deadline first scheduling of the vicinity group by the leader vehicle; and controlling maneuvers of each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group according to the scheduling.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, further including learning the preference labels by training a support vector machine with the predicted preferences.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein predicting the preferences includes: calculating an expected loss reduction by determining a confidence score of each of preference labels; and sorting the preference labels according to the expected loss reduction.
4. The method as recited in claim 3, further including training the classifier according to the preference labels having the highest confidence scores relative to each other preference label.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein online account data include dates extracted from calendar appointments.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein online account data include daily commute patterns.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein scheduling each of the autonomous vehicles includes calculating a priority of each autonomous vehicle in the vicinity group according to a laxity of the trip deadline compared to an expected arrival time.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein scheduling each of the autonomous vehicles includes generating a scheduling decision for one of the autonomous vehicle having a highest priority such that an average expected arrival time of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group is within an average deadline of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, further including adjusting the scheduling periodically.
10. A method for scheduling traffic of autonomous vehicles, the method comprising: forming a vicinity group of autonomous vehicles by pinging other using vehicle-to-vehicle communication; electing a leader of the vicinity group by transmitting an election message to each of the autonomous vehicles from each other of the autonomous vehicles, each autonomous vehicle responding to a received election message with a vote, the leader being elected by receiving the most votes of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group; predicting preferences of a driver corresponding to each of the autonomous vehicles with a classifier by extracting online account data and predicting preference labels for each feature of the online account data; learning the preference labels by training a support vector machine with the predicted preferences; determining a trip deadline for each autonomous vehicle according to the corresponding preferences; scheduling each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group to prevent exceeding the trip deadline by performing earliest deadline first scheduling of the vicinity group by the leader vehicle, including: calculating a priority of each autonomous vehicle in the vicinity group according to a laxity of the trip deadline compared to an expected arrival time; generating a scheduling decision for one of the autonomous vehicle having a highest priority such that an average expected arrival time of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group is within an average deadline of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group; and controlling maneuvers of each of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group according to the scheduling.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein predicting the preferences includes: calculating an expected loss reduction by determining a confidence score of each of preference labels; and sorting the preference labels according to the expected loss reduction.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, further including training the classifier according to the preference labels having the highest confidence scores relative to each other preference label.
13. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein online account data include dates extracted from calendar appointments.
14. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein online account data include daily commute patterns.
15. The method as recited in claim 10, further including adjusting the scheduling periodically.
16. An autonomous vehicle for scheduling traffic of autonomous vehicles, the leader vehicle comprising: a communication system that communicates with nearby autonomous vehicles to form a vicinity group of autonomous vehicles by pinging each other of the autonomous vehicles using vehicle-to-vehicle communication; a vote counter that elects a leader vehicle of the vicinity group by transmitting an election message to each autonomous vehicle of the vicinity group, responding to a received election message with a vote, and counting votes received to compare with each of the autonomous vehicles and determine the leader; a preference engine that uses a classifier to predict preferences of a driver by extracting preference labels from online account data stored in a storage device; a deadline calculator that determines a trip deadline according to the predicted preferences; a scheduler that schedules vehicle maneuvers to prevent exceeding the trip deadline by performing earliest deadline first scheduling; and a group controller that controls maneuvers according to the scheduling such that a group controller corresponding to each vehicle in the vicinity group agrees to the maneuvers.
17. The autonomous vehicle as recited in claim 16, further including a support vector machine that learns the preference labels by training with the predicted preferences.
18. The autonomous vehicle as recited in claim 16, wherein the classifier communicates the preferences to a scoring module that calculates an expected loss reduction by determining a confidence score of each of preference labels and sorts the preference labels according to the expected loss reduction.
19. The autonomous vehicle as recited in claim 16, further including a priority calculator that wherein calculates a priority of each autonomous vehicle in the vicinity group according to a laxity of the trip deadline compared to an expected arrival time to determine the scheduling.
20. The autonomous vehicle as recited in claim 16, further including a utilization optimizer that issues a scheduling decision for one of the autonomous vehicle having a highest priority such that an average expected arrival time of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group is within an average deadline of the autonomous vehicles in the vicinity group.
</claims>
</document>
