<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/335,G06F16/34,G06F16/35,G06F16/9535,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOTION AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERRY, IAN
SNIDER, LINDSAY
SUTTER, GUY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66328579
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION, COMMUNICATION NODE CLASSIFICATION, AND COMMUNICATION NODE AFFINITY MAPPING USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods enable intelligent online user classification and cohort detection within an electronic communications environment includes accessing electronic communication data exchanged between a plurality of online users; processing the electronic communication data by (i) extracting cohort data features from the electronic communication data; (ii) allowing the extracted cohort data features, as input, into a cohort grouping circuit; (iii) identifying, by the cohort grouping circuit, at least one cohort grouping comprising a subset of online users of the plurality of online users based on an output of the cohort grouping circuit; wherein the cohort grouping circuit uses the extracted cohort data features to generate a cohort network mapping that illustrates connections between the subset of online users defining the at least one cohort grouping.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An online system that enables intelligent user classification and cohort detection within an electronic communications environment based on electronic communications data, the online system comprising: an electronic communications server that accesses electronic communication data exchanged between a plurality of online users; an electronic communication processing circuit that processes the electronic communication data by: (i) extracting cohort data features from the electronic communication data; (ii) allowing the extracted cohort data features, as input, into a cohort grouping circuit; (iii) identifying, by the cohort grouping circuit, at least one cohort grouping comprising a subset of online users of the plurality of online users based on an output of the cohort grouping circuit; wherein the cohort grouping circuit uses the extracted cohort data features to generate a cohort network mapping that illustrates connections between the subset of online users defining the at least one cohort grouping.
2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a machine learning system comprising an ensemble of machine learning classifiers comprising a plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers, wherein each of the plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers is configured to generate a distinct classification label upon a detection of a distinct cohort data feature, wherein processing the electronic communication data includes: generating by the plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers one or more cohort machine learning classification labels for each of the plurality of online users based on one or more distinct cohort data features of the extracted cohort data features; allowing the one or more cohort machine learning classification labels along with the extracted archetype data features, as input, into the cohort grouping circuit; and identifying the at least one cohort grouping additionally based on the one or more cohort machine learning classification labels.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein identifying the at least one cohort grouping includes grouping into the subset of online users, by the cohort grouping circuit, online users having at least one common cohort machine learning classification label.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the electronic communication server accesses the electronic communication data exchanged between the plurality of online users from one or more online third-party service providers including one or more of online networking services and email communication services.
5. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: deploying the cohort network mapping via an interface of an online networking service.
6. An online method that enables intelligent online user classification and cohort detection within an electronic communications environment based on electronic communications data, the online method comprising: at an electronic communication networking service that is implemented by one or more networked computing servers: accessing electronic communication data exchanged between a plurality of online users; processing the electronic communication data by: (i) extracting cohort data features from the electronic communication data; (ii) allowing the extracted cohort data features, as input, into a cohort grouping circuit; (iii) identifying, by the cohort grouping circuit, at least one cohort grouping comprising a subset of online users of the plurality of online users based on an output of the cohort grouping circuit; wherein the cohort grouping circuit uses the extracted cohort data features to generate a cohort network mapping that illustrates connections between the subset of online users defining the at least one cohort grouping.
7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: implementing a machine learning system comprising an ensemble of machine learning classifiers comprising a plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers, wherein each of the plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers is configured to generate a distinct classification label upon a detection of a distinct cohort data feature, wherein processing the electronic communication data includes: generating by the plurality of distinct machine learning classifiers one or more cohort machine learning classification labels for each of the plurality of online users based on one or more distinct cohort data features of the extracted cohort data features; allowing the one or more cohort machine learning classification labels along with the extracted chat data features, as input, into the cohort grouping circuit; and identifying the at least one cohort grouping additionally based on the one or more cohort machine learning classification labels.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein identifying the at least one cohort grouping includes grouping into the subset of online users, by the cohort grouping circuit, online users having at least one common cohort machine learning classification label.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the electronic communication server accesses the electronic communication data exchanged between the plurality of online users from one or more online third-party service providers including one or more of online networking services and email communication services.
10. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: deploying the cohort network mapping via an interface of an online networking service.
11. The method according to claim 6, wherein each of the online user of the subset of online users within the cohort network mapping is represented as a distinct node within a graphical representation of the cohort network mapping; the method further comprising: selecting a node within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping; and responsive to the selecting the node, automatically presenting via an interface of an online networking environment one or more options for establishing an electronic communication with the online user and/or routing an electronic message to the online user.
12. The method according to claim 6, wherein each of the online user of the subset of online users within the cohort network mapping is represented as a distinct node within a graphical representation of the cohort network mapping; the method further comprising: identifying an interaction of user with a node within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping; in response to identifying the interaction, automatically deploying an electronic communication composition section within an interface of an online communication environment for generating and routing an electronic communication to the online user.
13. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: receiving a search query; responsive to receiving the search query, automatically displaying the cohort network mapping via an electronic communication interface of an online electronic communication environment.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the search query comprises a name of an online user or a specific classification label assignable to online users.
15. The method according to claim 6, further comprising: receiving a search query; responsive to receiving the search query, automatically displaying the cohort network mapping via a networking interface of an online networking environment.
16. The method according to claim 6, wherein the cohort network mapping comprises a searchable graphical illustration; in response to receiving a search query for a specifically-named online user or a classification label of an online user, prominently identifying one or more nodes within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping that satisfy the search query, wherein the one or more nodes comprise one or more online users.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the cohort network mapping includes an electronic communication path from a user that provided the search query to an online user or node within a graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping; and displaying the cohort network mapping includes prominently identifying the electronic communication path within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping.
18. The method according to claim 16, wherein prominently identifying the one or more nodes within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping includes modifying a visual appearance of the one or more nodes thereby distinguishing the one or more nodes from other nodes of the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping.
19. The method according to claim 17, wherein prominently identifying the electronic communication path within the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping includes modifying a visual appearance of the electronic communication path thereby distinguishing the electronic communication path from other electronic communication paths of the graphical illustration of the cohort network mapping.
20. An online system that enables intelligent user classification and cohort detection within an email environment based on email communication data, the online system comprising: an electronic communications server that accesses email communication data exchanged between a plurality of online users; an email communication processing circuit that processes the email communication data by: (i) extracting cohort data features from the email communication data; (ii) allowing the extracted cohort data features, as input, into a cohort grouping circuit; (iii) identifying, by the cohort grouping circuit, at least one cohort grouping comprising a subset of online users of the plurality of online users based on an output of the cohort grouping circuit; wherein the cohort grouping circuit uses the extracted cohort data features to generate a cohort network mapping that illustrates connections between the subset of online users defining the at least one cohort grouping.
</claims>
</document>
