<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/00,G06F3/00,G06Q30/02,H04N21/25,H04N21/258,H04N21/422,H04N21/442,H04N21/658,H04N5/445
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
GALUTEN, ALBHY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727155
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for re-aggregation and optimization of media
</title>

<abstract>
A media system for providing community and behaviorally driven content selection and bundling based on user consumption data and an analysis of user affinity. The media system performs user affinity representations and analyzes content affinity. The media system performs content affinity representations and maps content analysis into groups. The media system creates multi-dimensional arrays and uses for user content, maps pricing choices to subscriber value, and, using algorithms which may include Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning approaches, maps groups to pricing choices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for digital content filtering and multi-dimensional analysis, the system comprising: a user database that stores user data arrays, wherein each user data array is specific to a different user and includes a set of content factors, and wherein each content factor in the set is associated with a likability metric specific to a respective user; a content database that stores content data arrays, wherein each content data array includes a set of content elements, and wherein each content element in the set is associated with an affinity metric specific to a respective content title; and a media analysis server at a location, wherein the media analysis server: identifies a requesting user from a plurality of users associated with the location; selects a plurality of dimensions from the set of content factors and the set of content elements based on the identified requesting user; and creates a multi-dimensional content array for the requesting user from the plurality of present users based on the selected dimensions that are found in a user data array specific to the requesting user and in one or more content data arrays.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the media analysis server further identifies different profiles for each of the plurality of users.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the media analysis server identifies the requesting user based on data regarding behavior of the requesting user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the media analysis server identifies the requesting user based on a mobile device held by the requesting user.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the mobile device is used to access one or more content files.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the mobile device provides motion detection information as identified by an accelerometer, wherein the media analysis server identifies the requesting user based on the motion detection information.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the media analysis server further tracks information regarding interaction by the plurality of users with an identified content titles, wherein the tracked information includes at least one of genre and sub-genre of the identified content titles, genre & sub-genre of a content title immediately preceding or immediately following the identified content title, time of day of the interaction, day of the week of the interaction, time of the year of the interaction, weather during the interaction, frequency of pause during the interaction, fast forward during the interaction, rewind during the interaction, amount of commercial skipping during the interaction, sections repeated during the interaction, and commercials repeated during the interaction.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the media analysis server further applies a weight associated with the identification of the requesting user to the user data array specific to the requesting user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the media analysis server further updates the user data array specific to the requesting user over time , wherein updating the user data array comprises adjusting the likability metric.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a content server that stores a plurality of digital content files, each digital content file comprising sequential content data for a respective content title.
11. A method for digital content filtering and multi-dimensional analysis, the method comprising: storing user data arrays in a user database in memory, wherein each user data array is specific to a different user and includes a set of content factors, and wherein each content factor in the set is associated with a likability metric specific to a respective user; storing content data arrays in a content database in memory, wherein each content data array includes a set of content elements, and wherein each content element in the set is associated with an affinity metric specific to a respective content title; identifying a requesting user from a plurality of users associated with the location; selecting a plurality of dimensions from the set of content factors and the set of content elements based on the identified requesting user; and creating a multi-dimensional content array for the requesting user from the plurality of present users based on the selected dimensions that are found in a user data array specific to the requesting user and in one or more content data arrays.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising identifying different profiles for each of the plurality of users.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising identifying the requesting user based on data regarding behavior of the requesting user.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising identifying the requesting user based on a mobile device held by the requesting user.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the mobile device is used to access one or more content files.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the mobile device provides motion detection information as identified by an accelerometer, and further comprising identifying the requesting user based on the motion detection information.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising tracking information regarding interaction by the plurality of users with an identified content titles, wherein the tracked information includes at least one of genre and sub-genre of the identified content titles, genre & sub-genre of a content title immediately preceding or immediately following the identified content title, time of day of the interaction, day of the week of the interaction, time of the year of the interaction, weather during the interaction, frequency of pause during the interaction, fast forward during the interaction, rewind during the interaction, amount of commercial skipping during the interaction, sections repeated during the interaction, and commercials repeated during the interaction.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising applying a weight associated with the identification of the requesting user to the user data array specific to the requesting user.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising updating the user data array specific to the requesting user over time , wherein updating the user data array comprises adjusting the likability metric.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing a plurality of digital content files at a content server, each digital content file comprising sequential content data for a respective content title.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor to perform a method for digital content filtering and multi-dimensional analysis, the method comprising: storing user data arrays in a user database in memory, wherein each user data array is specific to a different user and includes a set of content factors, and wherein each content factor in the set is associated with a likability metric specific to a respective user; storing content data arrays in a content database in memory, wherein each content data array includes a set of content elements, and wherein each content element in the set is associated with an affinity metric specific to a respective content title; identifying a requesting user from a plurality of users associated with the location; selecting a plurality of dimensions from the set of content factors and the set of content elements based on the identified requesting user; and creating a multi-dimensional content array for the requesting user from the plurality of present users based on the selected dimensions that are found in a user data array specific to the requesting user and in one or more content data arrays.
</claims>
</document>
