<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/45,G06F21/55,G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPYCLOUD
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENDLER, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72237148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEASURING DATA-BREACH PROPENSITY
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a process that includes: obtaining, with one or more processors, a set of user-authentication credentials of a plurality of users; accessing, with one or more processors, a repository of breached credentials and determining, with one or more processors, an amount of the obtained set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the repository includes credentials from a plurality of entities obtained after the entities suffered a breach; and determining, with one or more processors, a score based on the amount of the set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the score is indicative of effectiveness of cybersecurity practices of the entity and the users associated with the entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors effectuate operations comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, a set of user-authentication credentials of a plurality of users, wherein: all of the users are associated with the same entity, the obtained set of credential data includes a first username and a first password both associated with a first user among the plurality of users, and the obtained set of credential data includes and a second username and a second password both associated with a second user among the plurality of users; accessing, with one or more processors, a repository of breached credentials and determining, with one or more processors, an amount of the obtained set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the repository includes credentials from a plurality of entities obtained after the entities suffered a breach; and determining, with one or more processors, a score based on the amount of the set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the score is indicative of effectiveness of cybersecurity practices of the entity and the users associated with the entity.
2. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the score is based on freshness of breaches such that older breaches have less of an effect on the score than newer breaches.
3. The medium of claim 2, wherein the score is based on a sum of half-life weighted matches between user-authentication credentials and entries in the repository of breached credentials.
4. The medium of claim 1, wherein the score, or another score determined based on the set of user-authentication credentials, is based on an amount of the user-authentication credentials determined to appear in a dictionary.
5. The medium of claim 1, wherein the score, or another score determined based on the set of user-authentication credentials, is based on an aggregate measure of entropy of passwords in the set of user-authentication credentials.
6. The medium of claim 1, wherein the score is based on a difference in size between a run-length coding compressed versions of passwords in the set and un-compressed versions of passwords in the set.
7. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the operations comprise determining, with one or more processors, whether the first password satisfies one or more criteria from among a plurality of criteria, wherein determining whether the first password satisfies the one or more criteria includes determining whether the first password includes one or more terms corresponding to an identifier of a computing resource accessed with the first password, and the score is an identity score based on whether the first password includes at least some of the terms.
8. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: determining, with one or more processors, a count of breached password and username combinations associated with the entity; and determining, with one or more processors, a ratio based on the count of breached password and username combinations associated with the entity and a count of total password and username combinations associated with the entity in the set, wherein the value of the identity score is based on the ratio.
9. The medium of claim 8, wherein breached password and username combinations and the total password and username combinations used to determine the ratio correspond to active password and username combinations.
10. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the set includes a personal username and a personal password associated with the first user associated with the entity, the personal username and personal password being operative to access online resources that are controlled by a different entity; and the score is based on both personal and work credentials of employees of the entity.
11. The medium of claim 10, wherein a magnitude of an effect on the identity score of matches in to the repository is based on whether the matches are to personal passwords.
12. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the set of user-authentication credentials is associated with a national identifiable number, a passport number, a driver's license number, or a credit card number of the first user, the operations comprise determining the score based on whether the repository of breached credentials includes the a national identifiable number, a passport number, a driver's license number, or a credit card number of the first user.
13. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: causing a user interface to display an indication of changes in the score over time.
14. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: causing a user interface to display an indication of the score.
15. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: causing a user interface to display a multi-dimensional set of scores, each score corresponding to a different aspect of cybersecurity practices.
16. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: obtaining, with one or more processors, historical data including a plurality of previously determined scores associated with the entity; and predicting, with one or more processors, a future score of the entity based on the plurality of previously determined scores and the score, wherein the previously determined scores are indicative of effectiveness of cybersecurity practices of the entity and the users associated with the entity.
17. The medium of claim 1, wherein determining the score comprises steps for determining an identity score.
18. The medium of claim 1, wherein: the score is based on a ratio including a weighted sum of matches between the set and entries in the repository, at least some of the matches being weighted based age of breaches, and at least some of the matches being weighted based on whether the matched credentials are credentials of personal accounts of users.
19. The medium of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: steps for generating fake credentials; and determining the score based on a determination that the fake credentials are in the repository.
20. A method, comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, a set of user-authentication credentials of a plurality of users, wherein: all of the users are associated with the same entity, the obtained set of credential data includes a first username and a first password both associated with a first user among the plurality of users, and the obtained set of credential data includes and a second username and a second password both associated with a second user among the plurality of users; accessing, with one or more processors, a repository of breached credentials and determining, with one or more processors, an amount of the obtained set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the repository includes credentials from a plurality of entities obtained after the entities suffered a breach; and determining, with one or more processors, a score based on the amount of the set of user-authentication credentials in the repository of breached credentials, wherein the score is indicative of effectiveness of cybersecurity practices of the entity and the users associated with the entity.
</claims>
</document>
