<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R21/133,G06F11/34,G06F9/54,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CROUSE, CALEB
CUI, FANGFANG
DREIER, KREIG PHILLIP
MCKNIGHT, CRISTINA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68426075
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACTIVE ASSET MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques for active asset monitoring are presented. A system can collect a set of voltage measurements from one or more assets. The system can also perform learning associated with the set of voltage measurements and generate a set of digital signatures that includes a set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements. Furthermore, the system can determine monitor performance of an asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory having stored thereon computer executable components; a processor that executes at least the following computer executable components: a data collection component that collects a set of voltage measurements from one or more assets; an artificial intelligence component that performs learning associated with the set of voltage measurements and generates a set of digital signatures that includes a set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements; and a monitoring component that monitors performance of an asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring component identifies a future event associated with a particular condition for the asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring component identifies a future failure event associated with a failure condition for the asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a user interface component that generates a notification for a computing device in response to a determination, based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements, that voltage data for the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a user interface component that provides a graphical user interface via a computing device that provides information regarding the performance of the asset based on the set of digital signatures.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: an optimization component that modifies a parameter for the asset in response to a determination that a digital signature associated with the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the optimization component updates the set of digital signatures based on monitored performance of the asset.
8. A method, comprising: collecting, by a system comprising a processor, a set of voltage measurements from one or more assets; performing, by the system, learning associated with the set of voltage measurements using one or more artificial intelligence techniques; generating, by the system, a set of digital signatures that includes a set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements; and monitoring, by the system, performance of an asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying, by the system, a future event associated with a particular condition for the asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying, by the system, a future failure event associated with a failure condition for the asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: generating, by the system, a notification for a computing device in response to a determination, based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements, that voltage data for the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: rendering, by the system, a graphical user interface via a computing device that provides information regarding the performance of the asset based on the set of digital signatures.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: modifying, by the system, a parameter for the asset in response to a determination that a digital signature associated with the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: updating, by the system, the set of digital signatures based on monitored performance of the asset.
15. A computer readable storage device comprising instructions that, in response to execution, cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations, comprising: collecting a set of voltage measurements from one or more assets; performing learning associated with the set of voltage measurements using one or more artificial intelligence techniques; generating a set of digital signatures that includes a set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements; and monitoring performance of an asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
16. The computer readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a future event associated with a particular condition for the asset based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements.
17. The computer readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a notification for a computing device in response to a determination, based on the set of digital signatures that includes the set of patterns regarding the set of voltage measurements, that voltage data for the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
18. The computer readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: rendering a graphical user interface via a computing device that provides information regarding the performance of the asset based on the set of digital signatures.
19. The computer readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: modifying a parameter for the asset in response to a determination that a digital signature associated with the asset satisfies a defined criterion.
20. The computer readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: updating the set of digital signatures based on monitored performance of the asset.
</claims>
</document>
