<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/41,G05B19/4155
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNN, DERREN, N.
BONAM, RAVI, K.
SAULNIER, NICOLE
CROUSE, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70551416
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mask process aware calibration using mask pattern fidelity inspections
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for modifying a mask fabrication process based the identification of an abnormality in a pattern of a fabricated lithography mask are disclosed including comparing a fabricated lithography mask to a lithography mask design where the fabricated lithography mask is fabricated based at least in part on the lithography mask design using a mask fabrication process. An abnormality in a pattern of the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding one of the plurality of patterns in the lithography mask design is identified based at least in part on the comparison of the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design. A calibrated mask model is generated based at least in part on the identified abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask and the mask fabrication process is modified based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: comparing a fabricated lithography mask to a lithography mask design, the fabricated lithography mask fabricated based at least in part on the lithography mask design using a mask fabrication process; identifying, based at least in part on the comparison of the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design, an abnormality in a pattern of the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding one of the plurality of patterns in the lithography mask design; generating a calibrated mask model based at least in part on the identified abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask; and causing a modification of the mask fabrication process based at least in part on the calibrated mask model, wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises optical-proximity correction using an optical-proximity correction model, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the optical-proximity correction model comprises at least one of segmentation, jogs, and tiling, wherein causing the modification of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model comprises causing a tuning of at least one of the segmentation, jogs, and tilting of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises a resist model, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification of the resist model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design comprises: extracting a contour of the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask; scaling the extracted contour based at least in part on a scaling performed in the fabrication process; and simulating a mask contour in a lithography simulation tool based on the scaled contour, and wherein causing the modification of the resist model comprises: causing a modification of the resist model based on the simulated mask contour.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises a resolution enhancement technique, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification to the resolution enhancement technique based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calibrated mask model comprises an indication of at least one correction to be applied to the fabrication process for correcting the abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design comprises: inspecting the fabricated lithography mask using an electron beam mask inspection tool, the electron beam mask inspection tool generating a macro-level variability matrix, each entry in the matrix corresponding to a given pattern in the fabricated lithography mask, each entry comprising a threshold value indicating a difference in the contours of the given pattern in the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding pattern in the lithography mask design, and wherein the identification of the abnormality in the pattern in the fabricated lithography mask is based at least in part on the threshold value corresponding to the pattern in the generated macro-level variability matrix.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing information corresponding to the pattern and the calibrated mask model in a data repository; training a machine learning model based at least in part on the stored information, the trained machine learning model configured to determine types of patterns in fabricated lithography masks; and applying the trained machine learning model to at least one other mask fabrication process for fabricating at least one other lithographic mask based on at least one other lithographic mask design, the applied trained machine learning model configured to identify a correspondence between a type of a pattern in the fabricated at least one other lithographic mask and a type of the pattern in the fabricated lithographic mask and to apply the calibrated mask model to the at least one other mask fabrication process in response to the identification of the correspondence.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design comprises counting the number of pixels in the pattern that have a grey level value between a first threshold value and a second threshold value.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein pattern is divided into a plurality of single line segments, the counting of the number of pixels in the pattern that have a grey level value between the first threshold value and the second threshold value comprising counting the number of pixels in the pattern single line segment by single line segment.
12. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: compare a fabricated lithography mask to a lithography mask design, the fabricated lithography mask fabricated based at least in part on the lithography mask design using a mask fabrication process; identify, based at least in part on the comparison of the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design, an abnormality in a pattern of the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding one of the plurality of patterns in the lithography mask design; generate a calibrated mask model based at least in part on the identified abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask; and cause a modification of the mask fabrication process based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises optical-proximity correction using an optical-proximity correction model, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the optical-proximity correction model comprises at least one of segmentation, jogs, and tiling, wherein causing the modification of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model comprises causing a tuning of at least one of the segmentation, jogs, and tilting of the optical-proximity correction model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises a resist model, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification of the resist model based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design comprises: extracting a contour of the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask; scaling the extracted contour based at least in part on a scaling performed in the fabrication process; and simulating a mask contour in a lithography simulation tool based on the scaled contour, and wherein causing the modification of the resist model comprises: causing a modification of the resist model based on the simulated mask contour.
17. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the mask fabrication process comprises a resolution enhancement technique, causing the modification of the mask fabrication process comprising causing a modification of the resolution enhancement technique based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
18. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the calibrated mask model comprises an indication of at least one correction to be applied to the fabrication process for correcting the abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask.
19. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design comprises: inspecting the fabricated lithography mask using an electron beam mask inspection tool, the electron beam mask inspection tool generating a macro-level variability matrix, each entry in the matrix corresponding to a given pattern in the fabricated lithography mask, each entry comprising a threshold value indicating a difference in the contours of the given pattern in the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding pattern in the lithography mask design, and wherein the identification of the abnormality in the pattern in the fabricated lithography mask is based at least in part on the threshold value corresponding to the pattern in the generated macro-level variability matrix.
20. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: comparing the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design, the fabricated lithography mask fabricated based at least in part on the lithography mask design using a mask fabrication process; identifying, based at least in part on the comparison of the fabricated lithography mask to the lithography mask design, an abnormality in a pattern of the fabricated lithography mask relative to a corresponding one of the plurality of patterns in the lithography mask design; generating a calibrated mask model based at least in part on the identified abnormality in the pattern of the fabricated lithography mask; and causing a modification of the mask fabrication process based at least in part on the calibrated mask model.
</claims>
</document>
