<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
COMANICIU, DORIN
FLEISCHER, MAXIMILIAN
CHEN, TERRENCE
KAMEN, ALI
MANSI, TOMMASO
GIGLER, ALEXANDER MICHAEL
CHARALAMPAKI, PATRA
SUN, SHANHUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53200324
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SURGICAL GUIDANCE AND INTRA-OPERATIVE PATHOLOGY THROUGH ENDO-MICROSCOPIC TISSUE DIFFERENTIATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for image classification include receiving imaging data of in-vivo or excised tissue of a patient during a surgical procedure. Local image features are extracted from the imaging data. A vocabulary histogram for the imaging data is computed based on the extracted local image features. A classification of the in-vivo or excised tissue of the patient in the imaging data is determined based on the vocabulary histogram using a trained classifier, which is trained based on a set of sample images with confirmed tissue types.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for image registration, comprising: extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; identifying correspondences between an outer layer of a second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data and the outer layer of the second region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and determining a deformation of an inner layer of the second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data based on the identified correspondences by applying the biomechanical model with the personalized biomechanical parameters.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data comprises: determining an initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data by applying the biomechanical model with standard biomechanical parameters; comparing the initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data with the first region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and iteratively updating biomechanical parameters of the biomechanical model based on the comparing to extract the personalized biomechanical parameters.
3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein the standard biomechanical parameters include biomechanical parameters determined based on a population of patients.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein: the first region of the tissue is a region of higher imaging accuracy in the inner layer of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data, and the second region of the tissue is a region of lower imaging accuracy in the inner layer of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein: the outer layer of the tissue includes a cortical layer of a brain of the patient, and the inner layer of the tissue include a subcortical layer of the brain of the patient.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data comprises: extracting personalized tissue elasticity and Poisson ratio of the patient.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: updating the personalized biomechanical parameters based on a model of tumor growth for the patient.
8. An apparatus for image registration, comprising: means for extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; means for identifying correspondences between an outer layer of a second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data and the outer layer of the second region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and means for determining a deformation of an inner layer of the second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data based on the identified correspondences by applying the biomechanical model with the personalized biomechanical parameters.
9. The apparatus as recited in claim 8, wherein the means for extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data comprises: means for determining an initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data by applying the biomechanical model with standard biomechanical parameters; means for comparing the initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data with the first region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and means for iteratively updating biomechanical parameters of the biomechanical model based on the comparing to extract the personalized biomechanical parameters.
10. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the standard biomechanical parameters include biomechanical parameters determined based on a population of patients.
11. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, wherein the means for extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data comprises: means for extracting personalized tissue elasticity and Poisson ratio of the patient.
12. The apparatus as recited in claim 9, further comprising: means for updating the personalized biomechanical parameters based on a model of tumor growth for the patient.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer program instructions for image registration, the computer program instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising: extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; identifying correspondences between an outer layer of a second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data and the outer layer of the second region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and determining a deformation of an inner layer of the second region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data based on the identified correspondences by applying the biomechanical model with the personalized biomechanical parameters.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein extracting personalized biomechanical parameters from a first region of tissue of a patient in an inverse problem of the biomechanical model using pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data comprises: determining an initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data by applying the biomechanical model with standard biomechanical parameters; comparing the initial deformation in the first region of the tissue in the pre-operative imaging data with the first region of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data; and iteratively updating biomechanical parameters of the biomechanical model based on the comparing to extract the personalized biomechanical parameters.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein: the first region of the tissue is a region of higher imaging accuracy in the inner layer of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data, and the second region of the tissue is a region of lower imaging accuracy in the inner layer of the tissue in the intra-operative imaging data.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 13, wherein: the outer layer of the tissue includes a cortical layer of a brain of the patient, and the inner layer of the tissue include a subcortical layer of the brain of the patient.
17. A method for performing tumor resection on a brain of a patient, comprising: registering pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; displaying the registered pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; navigating a confocal laser endomicroscopy (CLE) probe to a region of in-vivo or excised brain tissue including the tumor based on the displaying the registered pre-operative imaging data and intra-operative imaging data; receiving CLE imaging data from the CLE probe at a border of the tumor; determining a classification of the region of the in-vivo or excised brain tissue as at least one of healthy tissue and tumorous tissue; displaying the classification of the in-vivo or excised brain tissue for resection of the tumor; and repeating the determining the classification of the region of the in-vivo or excised brain tissue and the displaying the classification of the in-vivo or excised brain tissue until the displaying the classification of the in-vivo or excised brain tissue shows healthy tissue with a resected tumor bed.
</claims>
</document>
