<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANAND, KUMAR
AWASTHI, ATEET KUMAR
HOENIG, AARON L.
PANDEY, AMIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727299
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROACTIVE INFRASTRUCTURE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT FOR MULTIPLE APPLICATION CLUSTERS
</title>

<abstract>
A system including: a processor; and a memory storing computer program code that controls the processor to: collect real-time business process metrics; collect real-time cluster metrics for a plurality of application clusters indicative of a required allotment of infrastructure resources for a given business process level; estimate a predicted future business process level; based on the estimated predicted future business process level and the real-time cluster metrics, predict a future infrastructure resource requirement of each of the plurality of application clusters; compare the predicted future infrastructure resource requirement of each of the plurality of application clusters to a current dedication of each of the plurality of application clusters; automatically adjust, in real-time and based on the comparison, respective allotments of infrastructure resources for each of the plurality of application clusters; receive an actual business process; and process the business process across the plurality of application clusters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A system for predictive real-time scaling of a plurality of connected application clusters, the system comprising: at least one processor; a time series database, configured to store real-time and historical business process metrics; a scaling server comprising one or more machine learning algorithms and configured to allocate resources between the plurality of application clusters; and at least one memory having stored thereon computer program code that, when executed by the at least one processor, controls the processor to: perform, with the plurality of connected application clusters, one or more business processes; collect real-time business process metrics from the plurality of connected application clusters; retrieve, from the time series database, real-time cluster metrics for the plurality of connected application clusters based on the one or more business processes; correlate the real-time cluster metrics with the real-time business process metrics; provide the business process metrics and the correlated real-time business process metrics to the scaling server; analyze the business process metrics to estimate a predicted future business process level using the one or more machine learning algorithms; store the future business process level in the time series database as future cluster metrics; predict a future requirement of each of the plurality of connected application clusters based on the future business process level and the correlated real-time cluster metrics; compare, at the scaling server, the future requirement of each of the plurality of connected application clusters to a current usage of each of the plurality of connected application clusters to identify a first application cluster for which the current usage is below the future requirement; automatically adjust, with the scaling server in real-time and based on the comparison, a first allotment of infrastructure resources assigned to the first application cluster; and automatically adjust, at the scaling server, a second allotment assigned to a second application cluster based on the comparison and the first allotment.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the automatically adjusting is performed independently for each of the plurality of application clusters.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the predicted future requirement of each of the plurality of application clusters is further based on historic cluster requirements for a given business process level.
5. 5-8. (canceled)
9. The system of claim 2, wherein the business process level corresponds to an expected number of financial services applications, and each of the plurality of application clusters comprise respective sets of mutually exclusive applications for processing financial services applications.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein analyzing the business process metrics to estimate the predicted future business process level is based on at least one from among a time of day, a day of the week, and a time of year.
11. A method of predictive real-time scaling of a plurality of connected application clusters, the method comprising: performing, with the plurality of connected application clusters, one or more business processes; collecting real-time business process metrics from the plurality of connected application clusters; collecting real-time cluster metrics of the plurality of connected application clusters based on the one or more business processes, the real-time cluster metrics including a business process volume; correlating the real-time cluster metrics with the real-time business process metrics based on the business process volume; analyzing the collected business process metrics to estimate a predicted future business process level; predicting a future requirement of each of the plurality of connected application clusters based on the estimated predicted future business process level and the correlated real-time cluster metrics; comparing the predicted future requirement of each of the plurality of connected application clusters to a current usage of each of the plurality of connected application clusters; automatically adjusting, in real-time and based on the comparison, a first allotment of infrastructure resources allocated to a first application cluster; and automatically adjusting a second allotment assigned to a second application cluster based on the comparison and the first allotment.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the automatically adjusting is performed independently for each of the plurality of application clusters.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the predicted future requirement of each of the plurality of application clusters is further based on historic cluster requirements for a given business process level.
14. 14-17. (canceled)
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the business process level corresponds to an expected number of financial services applications, and each of the plurality of application clusters comprise respective sets of applications for processing financial services applications.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the respective sets of applications are mutually exclusive applications for processing financial services applications.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing the collected business process metrics to estimate the predicted future business process level is based on at least one from among a time of day, a day of the week, and a time of year.
21. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms are configured to perform ridge regression using cross validation on the time series database.
22. The method of claim 11, wherein the analyzing comprises one or more machine learning algorithms configured to perform ridge regression using cross validation.
23. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer program code further controls the processor to: calculate a time delay between adjusting the first allotment and adjusting the second application cluster; predict a new future business process level based on the calculated time delay; and compare the new future business process level of the second application cluster to a current dedication of the second application cluster.
24. The method of claim 11, wherein the automatically adjusting the second allotment further comprises: calculating a time delay between adjusting the first allotment and adjusting the second application cluster; predicting a new future business process level based on the calculated time delay; and comparing the new future business process level of the second application cluster to a current dedication of the second application cluster.
25. The method of claim 11, further comprising comparing the predicted future requirement of each of the plurality of application clusters to an actual business process level to tune one or more machine learning algorithms.
</claims>
</document>
