<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H30/20,G16H40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARTERYS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIDULOCK, DARRYL
PATNI, HUSSEIN
DORMER, KYLE
DE FRANCESCO, GIOVANNI
WHITING, ALAN
SVARICH, NICHOLAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64016263
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL IMAGING, EFFICIENT SHARING AND SECURE HANDLING OF MEDICAL IMAGING INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
An MRI image processing and analysis system may identify instances of structure in MRI flow data, e.g., coherency, derive contours and/or clinical markers based on the identified structures. The system may be remotely located from one or more MRI acquisition systems, and perform: error detection and/or correction on MRI data sets; segmentation; visualization of flow superimposed on anatomical structure, quantification; verification; and/or generation of patient specific 4-D flow protocols. A protected health information (PHI) service is provided which de-identifies medical study data and allows medical providers to control PHI data, and uploads the de-identified data to an analytics service provider (ASP) system. A web application is provided which merges the PHI data with the de-identified data while keeping control of the PHI data with the medical provider. A Trusted Broker Service (TBS) is integrated with the PHI service pipeline and allows an authorized third party to control access to data that has been uploaded to the ASP from an authorized uploader.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a medical analytics platform, the medical analytics platform including an analytics service provider (ASP) system, the method comprising: receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, medical study data along with a unique identifier of the medical study data; storing, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the unique identifier of the medical study data on the ASP system; sending, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a request for access instructions for the received medical study data, wherein the request includes the unique identifier of the medical study data; receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the access instructions in response to the request; and storing, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the medical study data on the ASP system using the received access instructions.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the access instructions include encryption information for encrypting the medical study data and wherein the storing the medical study data includes encrypting the medical study data for storage using the encryption information.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the access instructions include a pre-signed, time-expiring access uniform resource locator (URL) and wherein the storing the medical study data includes storing the medical study data to the pre-signed, time-expiring access URL according to an access policy associated with the pre-signed, time-expiring access URL.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a request from a client processor-based device for the medical study data stored on the ASP system; retrieving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the identifier of the medical study data from storage on the ASP system in response to receiving the request for the medical study data stored on the ASP system; sending, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a request for access instructions for the medical study data stored on the ASP system, wherein the request for access instructions includes the unique identifier of the medical study data; receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the access instructions in response to the request for the access instructions; accessing, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the medical study data stored on the ASP system using the received access instructions; and sending, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the accessed medical study data stored on the ASP system to the client processor-based device in response to the request received from the client processor-based device.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the access instructions include decryption information for decrypting the medical study data and wherein the accessing the medical study data includes decrypting the medical study data using the decryption information.
6. The method of claim 4 further comprising: retrieving from storage on the ASP system, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a file name associated with the medical study data stored on the ASP system in response to receiving the request for the medical study data stored on the ASP system, wherein the access instructions include a pre-signed download uniform resource locator (URL) and wherein the accessing the medical study data includes requesting, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the medical study data at a location specified by the pre-signed download uniform URL.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the medical study data is received along with the unique identifier of the medical study data from a medical study data uploader (MSDU) system, the request for access instructions for the received medical study data is sent to a trusted broker service (TBS) system, and the access instructions are received from the TBS system in response to the request.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: before the receiving the medical study data along with the unique identifier of the medical study data: receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a request from the MSDU system for an authentication token and an address of the trusted broker service (TBS) system, the request including an application programming interface (API) key and unique secret stored on the MSDU system; authenticating, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the request from the MSDU system using the application programming interface (API) key and the unique secret; sending, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the authentication token and the address of the TBS system to the MSDU system based on authentication of the request from the MSDU system; receiving, by at least one processor of the ASP system, a request from the TBS system for verification of the authentication token; verifying, by at least one processor of the ASP system, the authentication token in response to the request for verification from the TBS system; and sending, by at least one processor of the ASP system, verification of the authentication token to the TBS system.
9. The method of claim 7 wherein the MSDU system is part of a protected health information (PHI) system.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the medical study data is de-identified medical study data that is de-identified by the PHI system.
11. A method of operating a medical analytics platform, the medical analytics platform including a trusted broker service (TBS) system, the method comprising: receiving, by at least one processor of the TBS system, a request from an analytics service provider (ASP) system for access instructions for medical study data to be stored on the ASP system, wherein the request includes a unique identifier of the medical study data; retrieving, by at least one processor of the TBS system, access instructions for the medical study data using the unique identifier; and sending, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the access instructions for the medical study data to the ASP system in response to the request for the access instructions.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the access instructions include encryption information for encrypting the medical study data by the ASP system for storage on the ASP system.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein the access instructions include a pre-signed, time-expiring access uniform resource locator (URL) to which the medical study data is to be stored by the ASP system.
14. The method of claim 11 further comprising: before the receiving the request from the ASP system for access instructions for the medical study data: receiving, by at least one processor of the TBS system, metadata regarding the medical study data along with an authentication token from medical study data uploader (MSDU) system; sending, by at least one processor of the TBS system, a request to the ASP system for verification of the authentication token; receiving, by at least one processor of the TBS system, verification of the authentication token from the ASP system in response to the request for verification of the authentication token; and in response to the verification of the authentication token: generating, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the unique identifier of the medical study data; generating, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the access information for the medical study data; associating, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the unique identifier of the medical study data with the access information for the medical study data and the metadata regarding the medical study data; storing on the TBS system, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the metadata regarding the medical study data; storing on the TBS system, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the association of the unique identifier of the medical study data with the access information for the medical study data and the metadata regarding the medical study data; and sending, by at least one processor of the TBS system, the unique identifier of the medical study data to the MSDU system.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the MSDU system is part of a protected health information (PHI) system.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the medical study data is de-identified medical study data that is de-identified by the PHI system.
17. The method of claim 14 further comprising: receiving, by at least one processor of the TBS system, a request to revoke access to the medical study data stored on the ASP system; locating, by at least one processor of the TBS system, metadata stored on the TBS system regarding the medical study data stored on the ASP system for which access is to be revoked; removing from the TBS system, by at least one processor of the TBS system, one or more of: the metadata regarding the medical study data, the access information for the medical study data, and the unique identifier of the medical study data.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the request to revoke access to the medical study data stored on the ASP system is received from an authorized client processor-based device.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein the request to revoke access to the medical study data stored on the ASP system is received from a PHI system.
20. A method of operating a medical analytics platform, the medical analytics platform including a medical study data uploader (MSDU) system, the method comprising: sending, by at least one processor of the MSDU system, a request to an analytics service provider (ASP) system for an authentication token and an address of a trusted broker service (TBS) system, the request including an application programming interface (API) key and unique secret stored on the MSDU system; receiving from the ASP system, by at least one processor of the MSDU system, the authentication token and the address of the TBS system in response to the request sent to the ASP system; sending, by at least one processor of the MSDU system, metadata regarding medical study data along with the authentication token to the TBS system using the address of the TBS system; receiving from the TBS system, by at least one processor of the MSDU system, a unique identifier of the medical study data in response to the sending of the metadata regarding medical study data along with the authentication token to the TBS system; and sending to the ASP system, by at least one processor of the MSDU system, the unique identifier of the medical study data along with the medical study data for storage on the ASP system.
21. 21-56. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
