<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C02F1/00,C02F3/00,G01N33/18,G06N20/10,G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XIA, ZIJUN
BL TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
XIA, ZIJUN
LU, SU
MA WENCHAO
WANG, SIJING
WANG YU
BI, XIJING
WAN, ZHAOYANG
WANG, GUOLIANG
TANG, CHUANYOU
DONG, QIN
LI, YISONG
ZHU, ZHIPING
LING, JIAJIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66100318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROCESS AND ASSET HEALTH DIAGNOSIS, ANOMOLY DETECTION AND CONTROL IN WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANTS OR DRINKING WATER PLANTS
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and methods of analyzing data acquired from a water plant, both historical and in real-time, making determinations about process and asset health diagnosis and anomaly detection using advanced techniques, and controlling the plant and/or providing alerts based on such determinations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of intelligent water plant health diagnosis anomaly detection and control comprising: acquiring data from a water plant; analyzing the acquired data to make a health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant; and taking one or more actions based on the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant, wherein analyzing the acquired data to make the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant comprises applying one or more diagnosis methodologies to the acquired data, wherein the one or more diagnosis methodologies comprise one or more of supervised learning, unsupervised learning, cross validation with simulated model, data driven model, anomaly detection, and risk pattern recognition.
2. (canceled)
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. (canceled)
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology comprises a machine learning task of inferring a function from labeled training data, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology is implemented to determine or predict plant health in daily operation, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology learns diagnosis rules from historical events including both local site and global cases from a data center, human experience, or simulated scenarios once they are digitalized into dataset, and wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology includes one or more of decision tree, Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT)/Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBRT)/Multiple Addition Regression Tree (MART), Artificial Neural Network, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU), Support Vector Machine including all kinds of kernel methods such as RBF, Naïve Bayesian Classification, Maximum Entropy Classification, Ensemble Learning Methods including Boosting, Adaboost, Bagging, Random Forest, Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Gaussian Process Regression, Conditional Random Field (CRF), and Compressed Sensing methods such as Sparse Representation-based Classification (SRC).
7. (canceled)
8. (canceled)
9. (canceled)
10. (canceled)
11. (canceled)
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology comprises a machine learning task of inferring a function from unlabeled data sets, wherein one or more of plant health status, risk level, anomaly, problem, root cause, and mitigation solution are identified by the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology, wherein the unlabeled data sets are obtained from a historical or online database generated from water plant sensors or simulated models, and wherein the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology includes one or more of Hierarchical clustering, k-means, mean-shift, spectral clustering, Singular value decomposition (SVD), Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA), Independent Component Analysis (ICA), Non-negative Matrix Factorization) (NMF), Trend Loess Decomposition (STL), Expectation Maximization (EM), Hidden Markov Model (HMM), Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), Auto-Encoder, Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE), Generative Adversarial Nets (GAN), Deep Belief Network (DBN), Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM), and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO).
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. (canceled)
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the cross validation with simulated model diagnosis methodology comprises cross validation of a sensor value with a corresponding value from a simulated model's outputs or lab test results to determine sensor fraud wherein a significant gap between the sensor value and the simulated model's output or lab test results provides evidence of sensor fraud, wherein the cross validation with simulated model diagnosis methodology is used to identify, calibrate, remove or replace sensor fraud data to ensure data quality.
17. (canceled)
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly detection diagnosis methodology comprises an algorithm to determine an anomaly or outliers from a normal dataset, wherein the anomaly includes sensor fraud data, asset risky status, abnormal influent or process water or effluent water quality, specific contaminants identification, abnormal energy consumption or abnormal chemical consumption or control parameters, wherein if the anomaly does not exist in a training dataset it is used to identify an anomaly that has not happened before, and wherein the algorithm comprises and not limited one or more of Maximum-Likelihood Estimation, Kalman Filter, Trend Loess Decomposition (STL), Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average model (ARIMA), and Exponential Smoothing methods such as Holt-Winters Seasonal method.
19. (canceled)
20. (canceled)
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the risk recognition diagnosis methodology comprises a model to determine infrequent high risk events in the water plant including contaminants detected, sludge poisoning, sludge expansion, max plant capacity exceedance, and plant capability exceedance, wherein the model to determine infrequent high risk events comprises one or more of water spectrum feature abnormal, dissolved oxygen consumption rate, air flow to dissolved oxygen response model, generated sludge health index, and maximum influent tolerance model.
22. (canceled)
23. The method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of the diagnosis methodologies are performed in parallel to make the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant, or, wherein a plurality of the diagnosis methodologies are performed sequentially to make the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant.
24. (canceled)
25. The method of claim 1, wherein taking one or more actions based on the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant comprises displaying information about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant in a graphical user interface on a display, or comprises providing data about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant to a control system that controls at least a portion of the water plant, wherein the data about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection is used by the control system to change at least one parameter of operation of the water plant.
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. A system for intelligent water plant health diagnosis anomaly detection and control comprising: a control system comprising at least a controller and one or more data acquisition components, wherein a processor in the controller executes computer-executable instruction stored in a memory of the controller, said instructions cause the processor to: acquire data from a water plant using the one or more data acquisition components; analyze the acquired data to make a health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant by applying one or more diagnosis methodologies to the acquired data, wherein the one or more diagnosis methodologies comprise one or more of supervised learning, unsupervised learning, cross validation with simulated model, anomaly detection, and risk pattern recognition; and take one or more actions based on the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant, wherein the one or more data acquisition components comprise one or more local plant influent sensors, asset sensors, process sensors, effluent sensors, lab tests, plant dynamic or static simulated models, and historical data and global/cloud data base center.
29. (canceled)
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. The system of claim 28, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology comprises a machine learning task of inferring a function from labeled training data, wherein the training data is obtained from a historical or online database generated from water plant sensors or simulated models, wherein the labels comprise one or more of plant health status, risk level, anomaly, problem, root cause, and mitigation solution, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology learns diagnosis rules from historical events, human experience, or simulated scenarios once they are digitalized into dataset, wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology is implemented to determine or predict plant health in daily operation, and wherein the supervised learning diagnosis methodology includes one or more of decision tree, Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBDT)/Gradient Boosting Decision Tree (GBRT)/Multiple Addition Regression Tree (MART), Artificial Neural Network, Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), Recurrent Neural Network (RNN), Long Short Term Memory (LSTM), Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU), Support Vector Machine including all kinds of kernel methods such as RBF, Naïve Bayesian Classification, Maximum Entropy Classification, Ensemble Learning Methods including Boosting, Adaboost, Bagging, Random Forest, Linear Regression, Logistic Regression, Gaussian Process Regression, Conditional Random Field (CRF), and Compressed Sensing methods such as Sparse Representation-based Classification (SRC).
33. (canceled)
34. (canceled)
35. (canceled)
36. (canceled)
37. (canceled)
38. The system of claim 28, wherein the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology comprises a machine learning task of inferring a function from unlabeled data sets, wherein the unlabeled data sets are obtained from a historical or online database generated from water plant sensors or simulated models, wherein one or more of plant health status, risk level, anomaly, problem, root cause, and mitigation solution are identified by the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology, and wherein the unsupervised learning diagnosis methodology includes one or more of Hierarchical clustering, k-means, mean-shift, spectral clustering, Singular value decomposition (SVD), Principal Component Analysis (PCA), Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA), Independent Component Analysis (ICA), Non-negative Matrix Factorization)(NMF), Trend Loess Decomposition (STL), Expectation Maximization (EM), Hidden Markov Model (HMM), Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM), Auto-Encoder, Variational Auto-Encoder (VAE), Generative Adversarial Nets (GAN), Deep Belief Network (DBN), Restricted Boltzmann Machine (RBM), and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator (LASSO).
39. (canceled)
40. (canceled)
41. (canceled)
42. The system of claim 28, wherein the cross validation with simulated model diagnosis methodology comprises cross validation of a sensor value with a corresponding value from a simulated model's outputs or lab test results to determine sensor fraud wherein a significant gap between the sensor value and the simulated model's output or lab test results provides evidence of sensor fraud, wherein the cross validation with simulated model diagnosis methodology is used to identify, calibrate, remove or replace sensor fraud data to ensure data quality, wherein the anomaly detection diagnosis methodology comprises an algorithm executed by the processor to determine an anomaly or outliers from a normal dataset, wherein the anomaly includes sensor fraud data, abnormal influent or effluent water quality, abnormal energy consumption or control parameters, wherein if the anomaly does not exist in a training dataset it is used to identify an anomaly that has not happened before, and wherein the algorithm executed by the processor comprises one or more of Maximum-Likelihood Estimation, Kalman Filter, Trend Loess Decomposition (STL), Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average model (ARIMA), and Exponential Smoothing methods such as Holt-Winters Seasonal method.
43. (canceled)
44. (canceled)
45. (canceled)
46. (canceled)
47. The system of claim 28, wherein the risk recognition diagnosis methodology comprises a model developed using the data by the processor to determine infrequent high risk events in the water plant including sludge poisoning, sludge expansion, max plant capacity exceedance, and heavy metal poisoning, wherein the model to determine infrequent high risk events comprises one or more of dissolved oxygen consumption rate, air flow to dissolved oxygen response model, generated sludge health index, and maximum influent tolerance model.
48. (canceled)
49. The system of claim 28, wherein a plurality of the diagnosis methodologies are performed in parallel by the processor to make the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant, or wherein a plurality of the diagnosis methodologies are performed sequentially by the processor to make the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant.
50. (canceled)
51. The system of claim 28, further comprising a display device in communication with the processor, wherein taking one or more actions based on the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant comprises displaying information about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant in a graphical user interface on the display device.
52. The system of claim 28, wherein taking one or more actions based on the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant comprises providing data about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant to the control system that controls at least a portion of the water plant and the data about the health diagnosis or anomaly detection for the water plant that is provided to the control system that controls at least a portion of the water plant is used by the control system to change at least one parameter of operation of the water plant.
</claims>
</document>
