<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Vectra AI, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEAUCHESNE, NICOLAS
MANCINI, JOHN STEVEN
MHATRE, HIMANSHU
Chen, Hsin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70804525
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, PRODUCT, AND SYSTEM FOR MAINTAINING AN ENSEMBLE OF HIERARCHICAL MACHINE LEARNING MODELS FOR DETECTION OF SECURITY RISKS AND BREACHES IN A NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an improved approach for identifying security risks and breaches in a network by applying machine learning methods that learn resource access patterns in the network. Specifically, by observing the access pattern of the network entities (e.g. accounts, services, and hosts) from authorization requests/responses, the model through unsupervised learning, organizes the entity relationships into an ensemble of hierarchical models. The ensemble of hierarchical models can then be leveraged to create a series of metrics that can be used to identify various types of abnormalities in the access of a resource on the network. For instance, by further classifying the access request for a resource using abnormality scores into detection scenarios, the model is able to detect both an abnormality and the type of abnormality and include such information in a corresponding alarm when a security breach happens.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detection of abnormal network authentication activity, comprising: generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a relationship between entities of the same type and the entities are associated with one or more attributes; identifying access data corresponding to an entity type of the plurality of entity types; and evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of hierarchical structures are generated using a machine learning process.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the relationship between entities of the same type comprises a distance metric.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types comprises at least determining a logical distance between entities of the same type based on feature data extracted from collected access data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to the plurality of entity types comprises: generating a first hierarchical structure corresponding to a first entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a first relationship between entities of a first type and the entities of the first type are associated with a first attribute; generating a second hierarchical structure corresponding to a second entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a second relationship between entities of a second type and the entities of the second type are associated with a second attribute; and generating a third hierarchical structure corresponding to a third entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a third relationship between entities of a third type and the entities of the third type are associated with a third attribute.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein evaluating the access data using the hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures comprises generating an abnormality score for the first relationship, the second relationship, and the third relationship.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a detection result when the access data is determined to be abnormal, the detection result comprising an abnormality classification determined based on a plurality of abnormalities identified by evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein access data corresponds to at least requests from hosts to an authentication service or responses from the authentication service to the hosts, requests comprising token or authorization requests, and responses comprising token or authorization responses.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein access data is captured by at least one of: packet sniffing and authentication service log parsing.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a confidence score for a detection, wherein the confidence score is based on a stability score, wherein the stability score comprises a metric representing a difference between the plurality of hierarchical structures and previously generated hierarchical structures.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures comprising using two or more of the plurality of hierarchical structures to determine whether the access data is abnormal, the hierarchical structures relating individual entity types to a relationship between the individual entity types and a different entity type.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a sequence of instructions which, when executed by a processor, performs a set of acts for detection of abnormal network authentication activity, the set of acts comprising: generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a relationship between entities of the same type and the entities are associated with one or more attributes; identifying access data corresponding to an entity type of the plurality of entity types; and evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the plurality of hierarchical structures are generated using a machine learning process.
14. The computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the relationship between entities of the same type comprises a distance metric.
15. The computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types comprises at least determining a logical distance between entities of the same type based on feature data extracted from collected access data.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein generating the plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to the plurality of entity types comprises: generating a first hierarchical structure corresponding to a first entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a first relationship between entities of a first type and the entities of the first type are associated with a first attribute; generating a second hierarchical structure corresponding to a second entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a second relationship between entities of a second type and the entities of the second type are associated with a second attribute; and generating a third hierarchical structure corresponding to a third entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a third relationship between entities of a third type and the entities of the third type are associated with a third attribute.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 12, the set of acts further comprising generating a detection result when the access data is determined to be abnormal, the detection result comprising an abnormality classification determined based on a plurality of abnormalities identified by evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 12, further comprising generating a confidence score for a detection, wherein the confidence score is based on a stability score, wherein the stability score comprises a metric representing a difference between the plurality of hierarchical structures and previously generated hierarchical structures.
19. The computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures comprising using two or more of the plurality of hierarchical structures to determine whether the access data is abnormal, the hierarchical structures relating individual entity types to a relationship between the individual entity types and a different entity type.
20. A system for detection of abnormal network authentication activity, comprising: a memory storing a sequence of program code instructions; and a processor that executes the sequence of program code instructions to perform a set of acts, comprising: generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a relationship between entities of the same type and the entities are associated with one or more attributes; identifying access data corresponding to an entity type of the plurality of entity types; and evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the plurality of hierarchical structures are generated using a machine learning process.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the plurality of hierarchical structures are generated using a machine learning process.
23. The system of claim 20, wherein the relationship between entities of the same type comprises a distance metric.
24. The system of claim 20, wherein generating a plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to a plurality of entity types comprises at least determining a logical distance between entities of the same type based on feature data extracted from collected access data.
25. The system of claim 20, wherein generating the plurality of hierarchical structures corresponding to the plurality of entity types comprises: generating a first hierarchical structure corresponding to a first entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a first relationship between entities of a first type and the entities of the first type are associated with a first attribute; generating a second hierarchical structure corresponding to a second entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a second relationship between entities of a second type and the entities of the second type are associated with a second attribute; and generating a third hierarchical structure corresponding to a third entity type, wherein the hierarchical structure represents a third relationship between entities of a third type and the entities of the third type are associated with a third attribute.
26. The system of claim 20, further comprising generating a detection result when the access data is determined to be abnormal, the detection result comprising an abnormality classification determined based on a plurality of abnormalities identified by evaluating the access data using a hierarchical structure of the plurality of hierarchical structures.
</claims>
</document>
