<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06T19/00,G09B19/00,G09B7/00,G16H20/70,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JANSSEN PHARMACEUTICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
Manji, Husseini
Brouillon, Carine
Manfredonia, Joe
Schoeneich, Magdalena
Brun, Gabriel
Barbuto, Joseph
Bettencourt, Katherine
Mosca, Kenneth
Sapp, Mark
Kramer, Alexandra
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60412610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ASSESSING COGNITIVE AND MOOD STATES OF A REAL WORLD USER AS A FUNCTION OF VIRTUAL WORLD ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
Cognitive and mood states of a real world person are assessed according to activity in a virtual world environment with which the person interacts. The virtual world is configured to provide interactive experiences for assessing the person's cognitive and/or mood states. The system requires configuration of a session avatar during each virtual world session to provide then-current insight into the person's mood state. The system may require configuration of an avatar reflective of the person's state. The system requires the person to configure the virtual world environment during each virtual session to provide then-current insight into the person's mood state. The system permits the user to visit destinations, perform tasks and play games that are included in the environment for the purpose of providing insight into the person's cognitive and/or mood states according to the person's selections and/or performance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized assessment system for assessing a mental state of a person, the system comprising: a processor; a display device; a memory; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to provide a virtual world navigable by an avatar under control of the person to provide the person with a video game experience session via the display device; instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display via the display device a menu of alternative options for configuring at least one aspect of at least one of the avatar, the virtual world and the video game experience session; receive from the person at least one user-selected option selected from among the alternative options displayed via the menu; and modify at least one of the video game experience session, the avatar as displayed via the display device, and the virtual world as displayed via the display device in accordance with the at least one user-selected option; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to assess the mental state of the person as a function of the at least one user-selected option; whereby the system performs an automated assessment of the mental state of the person as a function of the person's selection of options for configuration of aspects of at least one of the avatar, the virtual world and the video game experience session.
2. The computerized assessment system of claim 1, further comprising: instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to store in the memory the at least one user-selection option for each of a plurality of video game experience sessions; wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to assess the mental state of the person is configured to assess the mental state of the person as a function of the at least one user-selected option for the plurality of video game experience sessions.
3. The computerized assessment system of claim 1, further comprising: instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display to via the display device an indication of an assessed metal state of the person.
4. The computerized assessment system of claim 1, further comprising: instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display to via the display device a user-selectable link for automatedly establishing a communication session with another person's communications device.
5. The computerized assessment system of claim 1, further comprising: instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to transmit via a communications network to a healthcare providers computing system an alert identifying the person's assessed mental state.
6. The computerized assessment system of claim 1, further comprising: a plurality of actions stored in the memory, each of the plurality of actions being associated with at least one of a plurality of mental state assessments; instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to identify at least one recommended action that corresponds to the assessed mental state of the person; instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display to via the display device information instructing the person to perform the recommended action.
7. A computerized assessment system for assessing a mental state of a person, the system comprising: a processor; a memory; a display device; an input device; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display a menu of user-selectable options for configuring a session avatar, each of the user-selectable options being reflective of a respective mood state; requiring user input via the input device for configuring the session avatar; display via the display device a virtual world environment including the session avatar, during a virtual world session; and assess the user's mood as a function of user-selected options for the session avatar.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display the menu of user-selectable options for configuring the session avatar comprises instructions for displaying options for facial expressions.
9. The system of claim 7, further comprising instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display a menu of user-selectable options for configuring an ideal avatar, each of the user-selectable options being reflective of a respective mood state; require user input via the input device for configuring the ideal avatar; and assess the user's mood as a function of differences between user-selected options for the session avatar and user-selected options for the ideal avatar.
10. The system of claim 7, further comprising instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display a menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment, each of the user-selectable options being reflective of a respective mood state; require user input via the input device for configuring the virtual world environment; and assess the user's mood as a function of user-selected options for the virtual world environment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display the menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment comprises instructions for displaying a plurality of different environmental setting options.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display the menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment comprises instructions for displaying the menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment comprises displaying a plurality of different music options.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display the menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment comprises instructions for displaying the menu of user-selectable options for configuring a virtual world environment comprises displaying a plurality of different weather options.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display a virtual world environment comprises instructions to display destinations corresponding to respective mood states, the system further comprising instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: monitor user-directed interactions with the virtual world environment destinations; and assess the user's mood as a function of destinations visited by the user's session avatar.
15. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display a virtual world environment comprises instructions to display tasks providing information probative of the user's mood state, the system further comprising instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: monitor user-directed interactions with the virtual world environment in performance of at least one task; and assess the user's mood as a function of the user's performance of the at least one task.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display tasks providing information probative of the user's mood state comprises instructions to display a task comprising at least one question soliciting a user response.
17. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display a virtual world environment comprises instructions to display tasks providing information probative of the user's cognitive state, the system further comprising instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: monitor user-directed interactions with the virtual world environment in performance of at least one task; and assess the user's mood as a function of the user's performance of the at least one task.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to display tasks providing information probative of the user's cognitive state comprises instructions to display a game interface.
19. A computerized assessment system for assessing a mental state of a person, the system comprising: a processor; a display device; a memory; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to provide a virtual world environment and an avatar associated with the person to provide the person with a virtual world session via the display device; instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display via the display device a menu of user-selectable options for configuring at least one aspect of at least one of the avatar, the virtual world environment and the virtual world session; require from the person at least one user-selected option selected from among the alternative options displayed via the menu; and modify at least one of the avatar as displayed via the display device, the virtual world environment, and the virtual world session as displayed via the display device in accordance with the at least one user-selected option; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to assess the mental state of the person as a function of the at least one user-selected option; whereby the system performs an automated assessment of the mental state of the person as a function of the person's selection of options for configuration of aspects of at least one of the avatar, the virtual world environment, and the virtual world session.
20. A computerized assessment system for assessing a mental state of a person, the system comprising: a mental state monitoring system comprising: a processor; a display device; a memory; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to provide a virtual world environment and an avatar associated with the person to provide the person with a virtual world session via the display device; instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to: display via the display device a menu of user-selectable options for configuring at least one aspect of at least one of the avatar and the virtual world environment; require from the person at least one user-selected option selected from among the alternative options displayed via the menu for each of said at least one of the avatar and the virtual world environment; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to monitor user-directed activity within the virtual world session; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to transmit data representing recorded interactions that are associated with the person's mood state; and a mental state assessment system comprising: a second processor; a memory; and instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to perform an automated assessment of the mental state of the person as a function of received data representing recorded interactions that are associated with the person's mood state, including the person's selection of options for configuration of aspects of at least one of the avatar and the virtual world environment, and the person's monitored activity with the virtual world session.
</claims>
</document>
