<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06T7/13,G06T7/143,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PALO ALTO RESEARCH CENTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALA, RAJA
KALLUR PALLI KUMAR, SRICHARAN
SUN, JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68917481
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT SHAPE REGRESSION USING WASSERSTEIN DISTANCE
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment can provide a system for detecting outlines of objects in images. During operation, the system receives an image that includes at least one object, generates a random noise signal, and provides the received image and the random noise signal to a shape-regressor module, which applies a shape-regression model to predict a shape outline of an object within the received image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting outlines of objects in images, the method comprising: receiving an image comprising at least one object; generating a random noise signal; providing the received image and the random noise signal to a shape-regressor module, which applies a shape-regression model to predict a shape outline of an object within the received image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the shape-regression model, which comprises: obtaining a set of training images, wherein a respective training image is annotated and comprises at least one object, and wherein the annotated training image is associated with a set of true shape outlines; inputting the training images and a random noise signal to the shape-regression model to obtain estimated shape outlines; providing the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines to a discriminator module that computes a Wasserstein distance between probability distributions of the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines; and optimizing parameters of the shape-regression model based on the Wasserstein distance computed by the discriminator module.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein optimizing the shape-regression model comprises updating parameters of the shape-regression model in such a way that the computed Wasserstein distance is reduced.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the shape-regressor module is implemented as a first neural network, and wherein the discriminator module is implemented as a second neural network.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first and second neural networks together form a generative adversarial network (GAN).
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of Cartesian x-y coordinates along a boundary of the object.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of probabilities of image pixels belonging to a boundary of the object.
8. An apparatus for detecting outlines of objects in images, comprising: a receiving module configured to receive an image comprising at least one object; a noise generator configured to generate a random noise signal; a shape-regressor module configured to receive the image and random noise signal and apply a shape-regression model to predict a shape outline of the object within the received image.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, further comprising a discriminator module that facilitates training of the shape-regression model; wherein training the shape-regression model comprises: obtaining a set of training images, wherein a respective training image is annotated and comprises at least one object, and wherein the annotated training image is associated with a set of true shape outlines; inputting the training images and a random noise signal to the shape-regression model to obtain estimated shape outlines; providing the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines to the discriminator module that computes a Wasserstein distance between probability distributions of the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines; and optimizing parameters of the shape-regression model based on the Wasserstein distance computed by the discriminator module.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein optimizing the shape-regression model comprises updating parameters of the shape-regression model in such a way that the computed Wasserstein distance is reduced.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the shape-regressor module is implemented as a first neural network, and wherein the discriminator module is implemented as a second a second neural network.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the first and second neural networks together form a generative adversarial network (GAN).
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of Cartesian x-y coordinates along a boundary of the object.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of probabilities of image pixels belonging to a boundary of the object.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for detecting outlines of objects in images, the method comprising: receiving an image comprising at least one object; generating a random noise signal; providing the received image and the random noise signal to a shape-regressor module, which applies a shape-regression model to predict a shape outline of an object within the received image.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises training the shape-regression model, and wherein training the shape-regression model comprises: obtaining a set of training images, wherein a respective training image is annotated and comprises at least one object, and wherein the annotated training image is associated with a set of true shape outlines; inputting the training images and a random noise signal to the shape-regression model to obtain estimated shape outlines; providing the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines to a discriminator module that computes a Wasserstein distance between probability distributions of the estimated shape outlines and true shape outlines; and optimizing parameters of the shape-regression model based on the Wasserstein distance computed by the discriminator module.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein optimizing the shape-regression model comprises updating parameters of the shape-regression model in such a way that the computed Wasserstein distance is reduced.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the shape-regressor module is implemented as a first neural network, wherein the discriminator module is implemented as a second, and wherein the first and second neural networks together form a generative adversarial network (GAN).
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of Cartesian x-y coordinates along a boundary of the object.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the shape outline is defined in terms of probabilities of image pixels belonging to a boundary of the object.
</claims>
</document>
