<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228681
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IOT SENSOR NETWORK ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE WARNING, CONTROL AND MONITORING SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A first Internet of Things (IoT) sensor network remote sensor station and network comprising a sensor network parameter processing, warning and control system with electronic, specifically programmed, specialized sensor network communication computer machine including electronic artificial intelligence expert system processing with transceivers and/or electrical or optical connections for communicating with IoT sensors and other different followed or following IoT remote sensor stations. Monitor units collect information from and communicate with remote sensor stations and further analyze collected information with artificial intelligence expert systems processing comprising expert input with multiple propositional expert system instructions defining multiple ranges of sensor variables. Further artificial intelligence expert system decision making provides Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output (MIMO) expert system operation with dispatch of electronic and/or optical communication warnings and/or corrective action control signals addressing MIMO urgent and composite degrees of concerns. Further artificial intelligence expert system comprises one or more of expert system processing, speech recognition, natural language processing, image analysis, fuzzy logic and/or neural network analysis. In some embodiments, hierarchical expert or fuzzy systems, neural network and/or adaptive feedback control implementation are disclosed resulting in substantial simplification of computational requirements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A first Internet of Things (IoT) sensor network remote sensor station comprising: a sensor network parameter processing, warning and control system with at least one electronic, specifically programmed, specialized sensor network communication computer machine including electronic artificial intelligence expert system processing and further comprising: a non-transient memory having at least one portion for storing data and at least one portion for storing particular computer executable program code; at least one processor for executing the particular program code stored in the memory, one or more transceivers and/or electrical or optical connections for communicating with: IoT (Internet of Things) sensors that generate electrical or optical parameter signals derived from sensor inputs from objects or situations being monitored; one or more other different followed or following Internet of Things (IoT) sensor network remote sensor stations sharing common interests with said first IoT sensor network remote sensor station comprising one or more other electronic, specifically programmed, specialized sensor network communication computer machines for monitoring other such electrical or optical sensor parameter signals derived from different sensor inputs from IoT objects or situations being monitored; one or more monitor units connected to, collecting information from and communicating with said first remote sensor station and further analyzing such collected information from remote sensor stations; wherein the particular program code is configured to perform at least the following artificial intelligence expert system operations upon execution: artificial intelligence expert system processing based on expert input defining multiple expert system logic propositional instructions and multiple ranges of sensor variables; artificial intelligence expert system processing analysis of multiple sensor signal inputs and generation of multiple control outputs with urgent and/or integrated composite degree of concerns based on said expert system propositional instruction evaluation of multiple input sensor parameters; artificial intelligence expert system processing further comprising hierarchical Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output (MIMO) operation wherein the number of said expert system logic propositional instructions is a linear function of the number of variables and wherein said hierarchical MIMO operations provide inputs to successive hierarchical control levels based at least in part on importance of said inputs and feedback indicative of output signal sensitivity to said inputs; artificial intelligence expert system control of dispatch of electronic or optical communication warnings and/or corrective action to address MIMO urgent concerns and/or composite degrees of concern of said sensor network objects or situations based on urgent concerns and/or expert system composite degrees of concern; and wherein said artificial intelligence further processing comprises, without limitation, one or more of expert system processing and analysis of said first remote sensor station sensor input signals, acoustic signal processing, speech recognition, natural language processing, image processing, fuzzy logic, statistical analysis, mathematical analysis and/or neural network analysis.
2. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said sensor signals include a combination of one or more of audio, image, medical, process, material, manufacturing equipment, environmental, transportation, location, pipeline, power system, radiation, vehicle, computer, processor, data storage, cloud processing, cloud data storage, drone, threat, mote, BOT, robot, telecommunication network, cyberattack, malicious hacking or other followed remote sensor station monitoring signals.
3. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said MIMO artificial intelligence expert system controller is a fuzzy logic controller.
4. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said hierarchical MIMO artificial intelligence expert system controller is a fuzzy logic controller.
5. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said propositional expert system instructions are based on priorities or importance of selected object or situation expert defined monitored parameters.
6. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 2 wherein at least one of said expert systems propositional expert system instructions priorities is based on selected combinations of object or situation parameters.
7. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said artificial intelligence processing further comprises neural network processing with backward chaining from computed results to improve future computational results.
8. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 further comprising access of said remote sensor station to internet cloud storage and processing units.
9. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein sensor inputs may vary with time.
10. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 9 wherein said parameter analysis further comprises time series analysis of time variable sensor input data.
11. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 10 wherein said time series analysis includes regression analysis of time varying sensor signal parameter values.
12. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said electronic, specifically programmed, specialized sensor network communication computer machine communicates with other network nodes to monitor connected telecommunication network elements, subnetworks or networks for failures or performance issues impacting said first remote sensor station.
13. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein the one or more of said transceivers may communicate with a terrestrial or air-born vehicle.
14. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station is implemented in a terrestrial or air-born vehicle.
15. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein the one or more of said transceivers may communicate with a drone.
16. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station is implemented in a drone.
17. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein the one or more of said transceivers may communicate with a robot.
18. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station is implemented in a robot.
19. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein the one or more of said transceivers may communicate with a BOT.
20. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station is implemented in a BOT.
21. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein the one or more of said transceivers may communicate with a mote.
22. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station is implemented in a mote.
23. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 1 wherein said monitored Internet of Things (IoT) objects or situations comprise one or more persons.
24. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 23 wherein a monitored person is an infant, child, invalid, medical patient, elderly or special needs person.
25. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 24 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station transmits background audio signals to be broadcast in the area of said person.
26. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 25 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station transmitted background audio signals are removed from or attenuated in signals transmitted to connected monitor units to minimize annoying or unnecessary signals received and/or heard at said monitoring unit while still transmitting audio signals from the monitored object or person.
27. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 26 wherein said first sensor network remote sensor station transmits periodic keep-alive signals to a connected monitor unit to assure users that the remote sensor station is operating correctly.
28. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 2 wherein said sensor signals include a combination of at least one telecommunication network sensor input combined with other sensor signal inputs.
29. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 28 wherein said at least one telecommunication network sensor input is a telecommunication link sensor.
30. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 28 wherein said at least one telecommunication network sensor input is a telecommunication router sensor.
31. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 28 wherein said at least one telecommunication network sensor input is a telecommunication switching system sensor.
32. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 28 wherein said at least one telecommunication network sensor input is a telecommunication modem sensor.
33. A first Internet of Things (IoT) sensor network remote sensor station comprising: a sensor network parameter processing, warning and control system with at least one electronic, specifically programmed, specialized sensor network communication computer machine including electronic artificial intelligence expert system processing and further comprising: a non-transient memory having at least one portion for storing data and at least one portion for storing particular computer executable program code; at least one processor for executing the particular program code stored in the memory; one or more transceivers and/or electrical or optical connections for communicating with IoT (Internet of Things) sensors that generate electrical or optical parameter signals derived from sensor inputs from objects or situations being monitored including one or more telecommunication sensors; wherein the particular program code is configured to perform at least the following artificial intelligence expert system operations upon execution: artificial intelligence expert system processing based on expert input defining multiple expert system logic propositional instructions and multiple ranges of sensor variables; artificial intelligence expert system hierarchical Multiple-Input/Multiple-Output (MIMO) processing of multiple sensor signal inputs and generation of multiple control outputs with urgent and/or integrated composite degree of concerns based on said expert system propositional instruction evaluation of multiple input sensor parameters; artificial intelligence expert system control of dispatch of electronic or optical communication warnings and/or corrective action to address MIMO urgent concerns and/or composite degrees of concern of said sensor network objects or situations based on urgent concerns and rankings of said expert system composite degrees of concern; and wherein the number of said expert system logic propositional instructions is a linear function of the number of variables; and wherein said artificial intelligence further processing comprises, without limitation, one or more of expert system processing and analysis of said first remote sensor station sensor input signals, acoustic signal processing, speech recognition, natural language processing, image processing, fuzzy logic, statistical analysis, mathematical analysis and/or neural network analysis.
34. The first sensor network remote sensor station of claim 33 wherein, in addition to one or more telecommunication sensors, said sensor signals include a combination of one or more of audio, image, medical, process, material, manufacturing equipment, environmental, transportation, location, pipeline, power system, radiation, vehicle, computer, processor, data storage, cloud processing, cloud data storage, drone, threat, mote, BOT, robot, cyberattack, malicious hacking or other followed remote sensor station monitoring signals.
</claims>
</document>
