<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/16,A63F13/213,G09B19/00,G09B5/02,G16H20/10,G16H20/70,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRIGHT CLOUD INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BURDEA, GRIGORE, C.
Berde, Edward A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422639
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Medication Enhancement Systems and Methods for Cognitive Benefit
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing cognitive therapy to a patient are provided, which include a head mounted device wearable by the patient, a display configured to present one or more cognitive game scenes to the patient, one or more controllers for interacting with the cognitive training scenes, a cognitive engagement detection device configured to detect cognitive engagement of the patient and generate data indicative of the cognitive engagement of the patient, and a processor. The processor determines a level of cognitive engagement of the patient based at least in part on the data generated by the cognitive engagement detection device, determines performance of the patient interacting with the one or more cognitive training scenes based on information received from the one or more controllers, and determines cognitive improvement of the patient based on the cognitive engagement, cognitive medication taken, and the performance of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing cognitive therapy to a patient, comprising: a head mounted device wearable by a patient; a display configured to present one or more s cognitive training scenes to the patient; one or more controllers enabling the patient to interact with the one or more cognitive training scenes; a cognitive engagement detection device configured to detect cognitive engagement of the patient and generate data indicative of the cognitive engagement of the patient; and one or more processors in communication with the head mounted device, the display, the one or more controllers, and the cognitive engagement detection device, the one or more processors generating the one or more cognitive training scenes; wherein the one or more processors are configured to (i) determine a level of cognitive engagement of the patient based at least in part on the data generated by the cognitive engagement detection device, (ii) determine performance of the patient interacting with the one or more cognitive training scenes based on information received from the one or more controllers, and (iii) determine cognitive improvement of the patient based on the cognitive engagement and the performance of the patient in cognitive training scene tasks.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to alter the one or more cognitive training scenes based on the information received from the one or more controllers, past patient performance when interacting with the cognitive training scenes, and the data generated by the cognitive engagement detection device.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein altering one or more of the cognitive training scenes includes altering cognitive training difficulty, cognitive training duration, cognitive training interaction modality, cognitive cues, cognitive training scene content complexity, and available cognitive training scene selection.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the one or more processors are configured to alter the one or more cognitive training scenes to adjust cognitive engagement of the patient.
5. The system of claim 1, comprising a remote database in communication with the processor and storing the information received from the one or more controllers, the data generated by the cognitive engagement detection device, and patient cognitive improvement.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the head mounted device includes the display.
7. The system of claim 6, comprising a second display mirroring the one or more cognitive training scenes presented on the display included in the head mounted device.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the display included in the head mounted device is removable from the patient and the patient can interact with the one or more cognitive training scenes on the second display.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to be provided at the patient's home and the one or more cognitive training scenes are transmitted over a network connection to a remote location for viewing and remote monitoring by one or more clinicians or caregivers.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine cognitive improvement of the patient over time based on past performance of the patient and past determinations of cognitive engagement.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the cognitive engagement detection device includes one or more of a skin temperature sensor, a skin conductance measurement sensor, a blood oxygenation measurement system, an eye blinking detection system, an eye gaze detection system, and a head movement detection system.
12. The system of claim 1, comprising a cognitive training session customization system configured to alter the one or more cognitive training scenes based on input received by the processor, the input including one or more of patient past performance with the one or more cognitive training scenes, cognitive medication taken by patient, status of oxygen flow to the patient, availability of additional cognitive training scenes, duration of the one or more cognitive training scenes, difficulty of the one or more cognitive training scenes, interaction modality used to play the one or more cognitive training scenes, cognitive engagement of the patient when playing the one or more cognitive training scenes, and patient cognitive fatigue.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the head mounted device includes a headband, glasses, and the cognitive engagement detection device.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein cognitive engagement detection device includes a plurality of cognitive engagement detection devices, the headband includes at least one of the cognitive engagement detection devices, the glasses include at least one of the cognitive engagement detection device, the cognitive engagement detection device included in the headband includes one or more of a skin temperature sensor, a skin conductance measurement sensor, a blood oxygenation measurement system, and a head movement detection system, and the cognitive engagement detection device included in the glasses includes at least one of an eye blinking detection system and an eye gaze detection system.
15. A method for providing cognitive therapy to a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a head mounted device wearable by a patient, a display configured to present one or more cognitive training scenes to the patient, one or more controllers enabling the patient to interact with the one or more cognitive training scenes, a cognitive engagement detection device configured to detect cognitive engagement of the patient, and one or more processors in communication with the head mounted device, the display, the one or more controllers, and the cognitive engagement detection device; generating one or more cognitive training scenes and displaying the one or more cognitive training scenes on the display; receiving data indicative of the cognitive engagement of the patient from the cognitive engagement detection device; receiving information from the one or more controllers; determining a level of cognitive engagement of the patient based at least in part on the data received from the cognitive engagement detection device; determining performance of the patient interacting with the one or more cognitive training scenes based on the information received from the one or more controllers; and determining cognitive improvement of the patient based on the cognitive engagement and the performance of the patient.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising altering the one or more cognitive training scenes based on the information received from at least the one or more controllers and the data received from the cognitive engagement detection device.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the cognitive engagement detection device includes one or more of a skin temperature sensor, a skin conductance measurement sensor, a blood oxygenation measurement system, an eye blinking detection system, an eye gaze detection system, and a head movement detection system.
18. The method of claim 15, comprising the step of establishing a baseline for cognitive engagement, wherein the step of determining the level of cognitive engagement of the patient is based on the baseline.
19. The method of claim 15, comprising the step of determining cognitive improvement of the patient over time by comparing current cognitive training scene performance to past cognitive training scene performance.
20. The method of claim 15, comprising the steps of: receiving input on initial cognitive training scene availability from a clinician; and increasing or decreasing the initial cognitive training scene availability in response to patient performance on the one or more cognitive training scenes.
21. The method of claim 15, comprising the steps of: determining cognitive fatigue of the patient based on at least one of the data received from the cognitive engagement detection device and patient cognitive training scene performance, patient cognitive training scene performance being determined when repeatedly playing a same cognitive training scene at a same level of difficulty during a same cognitive training session; and increasing or decreasing cognitive training session duration in response to the determined cognitive fatigue of the patient in the cognitive training session.
22. The method of claim 21, comprising the step of employing a remedial action to address the cognitive fatigue of the patient including one or more of reducing cognitive training scene difficulty, reducing cognitive training scene duration, introducing a rest period between two or more cognitive training scenes, turning on oxygen flow, increasing oxygen flow, switching to a cognitive training scene requiring only a single controller, and reducing cognitive training scene content complexity.
23. A method for providing cognitive therapy to a patient, comprising the steps of: providing a head mounted device wearable by a patient, a display configured to present one or more cognitive training scenes to the patient, one or more controllers enabling the patient to interact with the one or more cognitive training scenes, a cognitive engagement detection device configured to detect cognitive engagement of the patient, and one or more processors in communication with the head mounted device, the display, the one or more controllers, and the cognitive engagement detection device; providing a cognitive medication dosage to a patient; generating one or more cognitive training scenes and displaying the one or more cognitive training scenes on the display; receiving data indicative of the cognitive state of the patient from the cognitive engagement detection device; receiving information from the one or more controllers; determining the cognitive state of the patient based at least in part on the data received from the cognitive engagement detection device; determining performance of the patient interacting with the one or more cognitive training scenes based on the information received from the one or more controllers; and modifying the cognitive medication dosage or cognitive medication type based on the cognitive state and the performance of the patient.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the cognitive state of the patient includes one or more of cognitive improvement of the patient, cognitive aptitude of the patient, emotional disposition of the patient, efficacy of the cognitive medication on the patient, and adverse side effects of the cognitive medication on the patient.
25. The method of claim 23, comprising the step of receiving data indicative of the cognitive state of the patient at a medication dosage determination system.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the step of modifying the cognitive medication dosage is performed by the medication dosage determination system.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the medication dosage determination system processes data indicative of the cognitive state of the patient using one or more of machine learning or artificial intelligence algorithms executed by the one or more processors.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein modifying the cognitive medication dosage or cognitive medication type is based on the cognitive state, the performance of the patient, and patient information.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the step of modifying the cognitive medication dosage, includes identifying a second cognitive medication and dosage.
30. The method of claim 29, comprising providing the second cognitive medication and dosage to the patient.
</claims>
</document>
