<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K39/00,C12Q1/6886,G01N33/569,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENENTECH
</assignee>

<inventors>
LILL, JENNIE
MELLMAN, IRA
LUPARDUS, PATRICK
JHUNJHUNWALA, SUCHIT
DELAMARRE, LELIA
YADAV, MAHESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54238541
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFICATION OF IMMUNOGENIC MUTANT PEPTIDES USING GENOMIC, TRANSCRIPTOMIC AND PROTEOMIC INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods of identifying a disease-specific immunogenic peptide through a series of selection steps. Immunogenic epitopes identified by methods of the present disclosure are applicable for use in peptide-based immunotherapy, preferably cancer therapy. Furthermore, the methods of the present disclosure may be performed in a high-throughput manner and serve as a means of personalized vaccine development and therapy. Also provided are compositions of immunogenic peptides as well as methods of treatment comprising said compositions.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claim is:
1. A method of identifying a disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide from a disease tissue in an individual, comprising: a) providing a set of variant-coding sequences of the disease tissue in the individual, each variant-coding sequence having a variation in the sequence compared to a reference sample; and b) selecting immunogenic variant-coding sequences from the set of variant-coding sequences, wherein the selecting step comprises predicting immunogenicity of the peptides comprising a variant amino acid encoded by the variant-coding sequences, thereby identifying the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide.
2. A method of identifying a disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide from a disease tissue in an individual, comprising: a) Obtaining a first set of variant-coding sequences based on the genomic sequence of the disease tissue in the individual, each variant-coding sequence having a variation in the sequence compared to a reference sample; b) Selecting a second set of expression variant-coding sequences from the first set based on the transcriptomic sequence of the disease tissue in the individual; c) Selecting a third set of epitope variant-coding sequences from the second set based on predicted ability of the peptides encoded by the expression variant-coding sequences to bind to an MHC class I molecule (MHCI); d) Selecting immunogenic variant-coding sequences from the third set comprising predicting immunogenicity of the peptides comprising a variant amino acid encoded by the epitope variant-coding sequences; thereby identifying the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: i) Obtaining a plurality of peptides that are bound to an MHCI molecule from the disease tissue; ii) Subjecting the MHCI-bound peptides to mass spectrometry-based sequencing; iii) Correlating the mass spectrometry-derived sequence information of the MHCI-bound peptides with the immunogenic variant-coding sequences.
4. A method of identifying a disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide from a disease tissue in an individual, comprising: a) obtaining a plurality of peptides that are bound to an MHC molecule from a diseased tissue of an individual; b) subjecting the MHC-bound peptides to mass spectrometry-based sequencing; and c) correlating the mass spectrometry-derived sequence information of the MHC-bound peptides with a set of variant-coding sequences of the disease tissue in the individual, each variant-coding sequence having a variation in the sequence compared to a reference sample, thereby identifying the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide.
5. A method of identifying a disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide from a disease tissue in an individual, comprising: a) Obtaining a first set of variant-coding sequences based on the genomic sequences of the disease tissue in the individual, each variant-coding sequence having a variation in the sequence compared to a reference sample; b) Selecting a second set of expression variant-coding sequences from the first set based on transcriptomic sequences of the disease tissue in the individual; c) Selecting a third set of epitope variant-coding sequences from the second set based on predicted ability of the peptides encoded by the expression variant-coding sequences to bind to an MHC class I molecule (MHCI); d) Obtaining a plurality of peptides that are bound to an MHCI molecule from the disease tissue; e) Subjecting the MHCI-bound peptides to mass spectrometry-based sequencing; f) Correlating the mass spectrometry-derived sequence information of the MHCI-bound peptides with the third set of epitope variant-coding sequences; thereby identifying the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising predicting immunogenicity of the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptides, wherein the disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide comprises a variant amino acid.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein predicting immunogenicity is based on one or more of the following parameters: i) Binding affinity of the peptide to the MHCI molecule; ii) Protein level of a peptide precursor containing the peptide; iii) Expression level of the transcript encoding the peptide precursor; iv) Processing efficiency of the peptide precursor by an immunoproteasome; v) Timing of expression of the peptide precursor; vi) Binding affinity of the peptide to a TCR molecule; vii) Position of a variant amino acid within the peptide; xiii) Solvent exposure of the peptide when bound to a MHCI molecule; ix) Solvent exposure of the variant amino acid when bound to a MHCI molecule; and x) Content of aromatic residues in the peptide; xi) Property of the variant amino acid when compared to the wild type residue; xii) Nature of the peptide precursor.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the prediction of immunogenicity further comprises HLA-typing analysis.
9. The method of claim 3, wherein obtaining a first set of variant-coding-sequences comprises: i) Obtaining a first set of variant sequences based on the genomic sequences of the disease tissue in the individual, each variant sequence having a variation in the sequence compared to a reference sample; and ii) Identifying the variants coding-sequences from the first set of variant sequences.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising synthesizing a nucleic acid encoding a peptide based on the sequence of the identified disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the disease is cancer.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the individual is human.
13. An immunogenic composition comprising at least one disease-specific peptide, wherein said disease-specific peptide is identified by the method of claim 1.
14. An immunogenic composition comprising at least one nucleic acid encoding a disease-specific peptide, wherein said disease-specific peptide is identified by the method of claim 1.
15. An immunogenic composition comprising a nucleic acid encoding a plurality of disease-specific peptides, wherein said disease-specific peptide is identified by the method of claim 1.
16. A method of stimulating an immune response in an individual with a disease comprising: a) identifying a disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide from a disease tissue in the individual according to claim 1, b) producing a composition comprising a peptide or a nucleic acid encoding the peptide based on the sequence of the identified disease-specific immunogenic mutant peptide; c) administering the composition to the individual.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising administering an anti-PD-1 antibody to the individual.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising administering an anti-PD-L1 antibody to the individual.
</claims>
</document>
