<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M21/00,G06N3/08,G16H20/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AKILI INTERACTIVE LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALAILIMA, TITIIMAEA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70162197
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE PLATFORM FOR DERIVING EFFORT METRIC FOR OPTIMIZING COGNITIVE TREATMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Adaptive modification and presentment of user interface elements in a computerized therapeutic treatment regimen. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide for non-linear computational analysis of cData and nData derived from user interactions with a mobile electronic device executing an instance of a computerized therapeutic treatment regimen. The cData and nData may be computed according to one or more artificial neural network or deep learning technique to derive patterns between computerized stimuli or interactions and sensor data. Patterns derived from analysis of the cData and nData may be used to define an effort metric associated with user input patterns in response to the computerized stimuli or interactions being indicative of a measure of user engagement or effort. A computational model or rules engine may be applied to adapt, modify, configure or present one or more graphical user interface elements in a subsequent instance of the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for adaptively improving user engagement with a computer-assisted therapy, the system comprising: a mobile electronic device comprising an input-output device configured to receive a user input and render a graphical output, the input-output device comprising a touch sensor or motion sensor; an integral or remote processor communicatively engaged with the mobile electronic device and configured to provide a graphical user interface to the mobile electronic device, the graphical user interface comprising a computerized stimuli or interaction corresponding to one or more tasks or user prompts in a computerized therapeutic treatment regimen; and a non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed, cause the processor to perform one or more actions, the one or more actions comprising: receiving a plurality of user-generated data corresponding to a plurality of user responses to the one or more tasks or user prompts, the plurality of user-generated data comprising sensor data corresponding to one or more user inputs or device interactions; computing the plurality of user-generated data according to a non-linear computational model to derive an effort metric associated with the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen, the non-linear computational model comprising an artificial neural network; modifying or configuring one or more interface elements of the user interface in response to the effort metric; and computing the plurality of user-generated data in response to modifying or configuring the one or more interface elements to quantify a measure change in the user-generated data corresponding to the effort metric.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise computing the plurality of user-generated data at one or more time points to quantify a measure of user engagement with the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise providing a feedback prompt to the user interface in response to the effort metric, the feedback prompt comprising a graphical or text output, an auditory output, or a haptic output.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein modifying or configuring the one or more interface elements comprises adjusting a difficulty level of the one or more tasks.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise modifying or configuring one or more interface elements in response to the measure of change in the effort metric.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise computing the plurality of user-generated data at one or more time points to determine a measure of efficacy of the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise modifying or selecting an instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction in response to the effort metric.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein computing the plurality of user-generated data according to the non-linear computational model further comprises analyzing one or more temporal relationships between the sensor data and the plurality of user responses.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more actions further comprise: receiving a second or subsequent plurality of user-generated data in response to modifying or configuring the one or more interface elements; computing the second or subsequent plurality of user-generated data to quantify a measure of user engagement based on to the effort metric; and further modifying or configuring the one or more interface elements in response to the measure of user engagement.
10. A processor-implemented method for adaptively improving user engagement with a computer-assisted therapy, the method comprising: receiving, with a processor operably engaged with a database, a first plurality of user data comprising a training dataset, the first plurality of user data comprising at least one user-generated input in response to a first instance of a computerized stimuli or interaction associated with a computerized therapeutic treatment regimen executing on a mobile electronic device; computing, with the processor, the first plurality of user data according to a non-linear computational framework to derive an effort metric based on one or more user response patterns to the computerized stimuli or interaction, the non-linear computational framework comprising an artificial neural network; receiving, with the processor operably engaged with the database, at least a second plurality of user data comprising at least one user-generated input in response to at least a second instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction; computing, with the processor, the second plurality of user data according to the non-linear computational framework to determine a measure of user engagement associated with the second instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction based on the effort metric; modifying or delivering, with the processor operably engaged with the mobile electronic device, at least one user interface element or user prompt associated with the second instance or subsequent instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction in response to the measure of user engagement being below a specified threshold value or range.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the effort metric comprises an indication of a temporal relationship between a user input and a sensor measurement in response to the computerized stimuli or interaction.
12. The method of claim 10 further comprising computing, with the processor, a third plurality of user data in response to modifying the at least one user interface element or user prompt to determine a subsequent measure of user engagement.
13. The method of claim 12 further comprising modifying or delivering, with the processor operably engaged with the mobile electronic device, at least one user interface element or user prompt in response to a change in the subsequent measure of user engagement relative to the measure of user engagement associated with the second instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein the at least one user interface element or user prompt comprises one or more of a text message, notification, alarm, or alerts to the mobile electronic device.
15. The method of claim 10 wherein the at least one user interface element or user prompt comprises one or more user tasks associated with the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium encoded with instructions for commanding one or more processors to execute operations of a method for adaptively improving user engagement with a computer-assisted therapy, the method comprising: receiving a first plurality of user data from a mobile electronic device, the first plurality of user data comprising user-generated inputs in response to a first instance of one or more computerized stimuli or interactions associated with a computerized therapeutic treatment regimen; computing the first plurality of user data according to a non-linear computational framework to derive an effort metric based on one or more user response patterns to the computerized stimuli or interaction, the non-linear computational framework comprising an artificial neural network; receiving a second plurality of user data from the mobile electronic device, the second plurality of user data comprising user-generated inputs in response to a second or subsequent instance of the one or more computerized stimuli or interactions; computing the second plurality of user data according to the non-linear computational framework to determine a measure of user engagement associated with the second or subsequent instance of the computerized stimuli or interaction based on the effort metric; and modifying or delivering at least one user interface element or user prompt to the mobile electronic device in response to the measure of user engagement being below a specified threshold value, the at least one user interface element or user prompt comprising a task or instruction associated with the computerized therapeutic treatment regimen.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16 wherein the operations of the method further comprise receiving a subsequent plurality of user data in response to modifying or delivering the at least one user interface element or user prompt to the mobile electronic device in response to the measure of user engagement being below a specified threshold value.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17 wherein the operations of the method further comprise computing the subsequent plurality of user data according to the non-linear computational framework to determine a subsequent measure of user engagement in response to modifying or delivering the at least one user interface element or user prompt to the mobile electronic device.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18 wherein the operations of the method further comprise further modifying or further delivering at least one user interface element or user prompt in response to the subsequent measure of user engagement.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16 wherein the at least one user interface element or user prompt comprises one or more of a user task, text message, notification, alarm, or alert being delivered to the mobile electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
