<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/18,G06Q20/20,G07F11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Fellows, Christopher Shawn
</assignee>

<inventors>
Fellows, Christopher Shawn
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604553
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR KIOSK DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatuses for a kiosk device are described herein. A computing device may determine an account associated with a user. The computing device may provide information associated with the account to the user. A plurality of items for purchase may be displayed. The computing device may receive an indication of a selection of items for purchase from the user. The computer device may provide a plurality of purchase options for the selected one or more items. The computing device may receive an indication of a selected purchase option. Purchase of the selected one or more items may be executed based on the a selected purchase option.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a computing device, an account associated with a user; providing, by the computing device, information associated with the account to the user; displaying a plurality of items for purchase; receiving, by the computing device from the user, an indication of a selection of one or more of the plurality of items for purchase; providing a plurality of purchase options for the selected one or more items; receiving, by the computing device from the user, an indication of a selected purchase option of the plurality of purchase options; and executing, based on the selected purchase option, purchase of the selected one or more items.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising requesting a password associated with the account prior to providing the information associated with the account to the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the information associated with the account comprises at least one of an available balance of the account, a time of last login, previously completed purchases associated with the account, or commonly selected items.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of items for purchase comprises at least one of merchandise associated with a merchant, automobile fuel, lottery products, apparel, food, or drinks.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of purchase options comprises at least one of redemption credits, a credit card, cash, or a cryptocurrency.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, to the user, a proof of purchase that indicates the executed purchase of the selected one or more items.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, to a fulfillment device, an invoice associated with the executed purchase of the selected one or more items, wherein the fulfillment device facilitates providing the selected one or more items at a pickup location for the user to retrieve the selected one or more items.
8. A system, comprising: a display configured to receive input from a user; a card reader configured to read information associated with a credit card; a cash acceptor configured to accept physical money comprising at least one of bills or coins; an image scanner configured to scan at least one of a barcode or a quick reference code; one or more processors; and a memory storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: determine an account associated with the user; provide, via the display, information associated with the account to the user; provide, via the display, a plurality of items for purchase; receive, from the user via the display, an indication of a selection of one or more of the plurality of items for purchase; provide, via the display, a plurality of purchase options for the selected one or more items; receive, from the user via the display, an indication of a selected purchase option of the plurality of purchase options; receive, via at least one of the card reader, the cash acceptor or the image scanner, a payment associated with the selected purchase option; and execute, based on the provided payment, purchase of the selected one or more items.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to request a password associated with the account prior to providing the information associated with the account to the user.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the information associated with the account comprises at least one of an available balance of the account, a time of last login, previously completed purchases associated with the account, or commonly selected items.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of items for purchase comprises at least one of merchandise associated with a merchant, motor vehicle fuel, lottery products, apparel, food, or drinks.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of purchase options comprises at least one of redemption credits, a credit card, cash, or a cryptocurrency.
13. The system of claim 8, further comprising a printer, and wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the system to provide, to the user via the printer, a proof of purchase that indicates the executed purchase of the selected one or more items.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising providing, to a fulfillment device, an invoice associated with the executed purchase of the selected one or more items, wherein the fulfillment device facilitates providing the selected one or more items at a pickup location for the user to retrieve the selected one or more items.
15. An apparatus, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: determine an account associated with a user; provide information associated with the account to the user; display a plurality of items for purchase; receive, from the user, an indication of a selected one or more of the plurality of items for purchase; provide a plurality of purchase options for the selection of one or more items; receive, from the user, an indication of a selected purchase option of the plurality of purchase options; and execute, based on the selected purchase option, purchase of the selected one or more items.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to request a password associated with the account prior to providing the information associated with the account to the user.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the information associated with the account comprises at least one of an available balance of the account, a time of last login, previously completed purchases associated with the account, or commonly selected items.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of items for purchase comprises at least one of merchandise associated with a merchant, automobile fuel, lottery products, apparel, food, or drinks.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the plurality of purchase options comprises at least one of redemption credits, a credit card, cash, or a cryptocurrency.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to provide, to the user, a proof of purchase that indicates the executed purchase of the selected one or more items.
</claims>
</document>
