<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F40/40,G06Q10/00,H04L12/18,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
VUSKOVIC, VLADIMIR
ADAN, YARIV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63104002
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROACTIVE PROVISION OF NEW CONTENT TO GROUP CHAT PARTICIPANTS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described herein for automated assistants that proactively provide content to participant(s) of multi-participant message exchange threads (e.g., group chats, audio and/or video calls in which oral messages are transcribed for analysis, etc.) based on signals such as individual participant profiles associated with participant(s). In various implementations, automated assistant(s) that may not be explicitly invoked may analyze content of a message exchange thread involving multiple human participants and/or document(s) associated with the message exchange thread. Based on the analyzing, the automated assistant(s) may identify topic(s) pertinent to the message exchange thread. Based on individual participant profiles associated with the participants, the automated assistant(s) may identify shared interest(s) of the participants. The automated assistant(s) may then select new content based both on the pertinent topic(s) and the shared interest(s) of the participants and proactively provide the new content to one or more of the participants.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method that is implemented on one or more processors, the method comprising: analyzing content of a message exchange thread involving multiple human participants; identifying, based on the analyzing, one or more ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread, wherein the one or more ambiguous topics are subject to multiple different interpretations; identifying, based on individual participant profiles associated with the participants, one or more interests shared among a plurality of the multiple participants, wherein each participant of the multiple participants is associated with an individual participant profile that includes information related to the participant; identifying one or more less ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread by disambiguating one or more of the ambiguous topics based on one or more of the interests shared among the plurality of the multiple participants; searching one or more data sources using one or more of the less ambiguous topics to identify responsive content, and proactively incorporating into the message exchange thread, by an automated assistant acting as a participant in the message exchange thread, at least some of the responsive content.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on search history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on location history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising ranking search results that are to be provided to one or more of the multiple participants subsequent to the proactively incorporating based at least in part on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, from input provided by one of the human participants in a search field subsequent to the proactively incorporating, a portion of a search query; and formulating an alternative query suggestion that is based on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting, subsequent to the proactively incorporating, a media file for recommendation to one or more of the multiple participants, wherein the selecting is based on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of the multiple participants comprises a subset of the multiple participants.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein at least one participant of the multiple participants who is not a member of the subset is not provided the responsive content.
9. A system comprising one or more processors and memory operably coupled with the one or more processors, wherein the memory stores instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: analyze content of a message exchange thread involving multiple human participants; identify, based on the analyzing, one or more ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread, wherein the one or more ambiguous topics are subject to multiple different interpretations; identify, based on individual participant profiles associated with the participants, one or more interests shared among a plurality of the multiple participants, wherein each participant of the multiple participants is associated with an individual participant profile that includes information related to the participant; identify one or more less ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread by disambiguating one or more of the ambiguous topics based on one or more of the interests shared among the plurality of the multiple participants; search one or more data sources using one or more of the less ambiguous topics to identify responsive content, and proactively incorporate into the message exchange thread, by an automated assistant acting as a participant in the message exchange thread, at least some of the responsive content.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on search history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on location history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
12. The system of claim 9, further comprising ranking search results that are to be provided to one or more of the multiple participants subsequent to the proactively incorporating based at least in part on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
13. The system of claim 9, further comprising: identifying, from input provided by one of the human participants in a search field subsequent to the proactively incorporating, a portion of a search query; and formulating an alternative query suggestion that is based on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
14. The system of claim 9, further comprising selecting, subsequent to the proactively incorporating, a media file for recommendation to one or more of the multiple participants, wherein the selecting is based on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of the multiple participants comprises a subset of the multiple participants.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one participant of the multiple participants who is not a member of the subset is not provided the responsive content.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations: analyzing content of a message exchange thread involving multiple human participants; identifying, based on the analyzing, one or more ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread, wherein the one or more ambiguous topics are subject to multiple different interpretations; identifying, based on individual participant profiles associated with the participants, one or more interests shared among a plurality of the multiple participants, wherein each participant of the multiple participants is associated with an individual participant profile that includes information related to the participant; identifying one or more less ambiguous topics pertinent to the message exchange thread by disambiguating one or more of the ambiguous topics based on one or more of the interests shared among the plurality of the multiple participants; searching one or more data sources using one or more of the less ambiguous topics to identify responsive content, and proactively incorporating into the message exchange thread, by an automated assistant acting as a participant in the message exchange thread, at least some of the responsive content.
18. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on search history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more shared interests of the plurality of the multiple participants are identified based on location history associated with one or more of the individual participant profiles.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, further comprising ranking search results that are to be provided to one or more of the multiple participants subsequent to the proactively incorporating based at least in part on the responsive content that was proactively incorporated into the message exchange thread.
</claims>
</document>
