<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/689,G16B30/00,G16B40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PRODERMIQ
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMINI, SASAN
HOSSEINI, DANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63448327
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CUSTOMIZED SKIN CARE PRODUCTS AND PERSONAL CARE PRODUCTS BASED ON THE ANALYSIS OF SKIN FLORA
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention relate to a combination of experimental and computational workflows that allow characterization of skin and subcutaneous tissue microbial flora and its associated metabolome, aiming to first evaluate an individual's skin and subcutaneous tissue to determine if any skin condition is as a result of an imbalance or absence of commensal or mutualistic microorganisms or their associated metabolites. In particular, embodiments of the methods and the associated computational platform provided herein relate to conducting a customized or personalized test and obtaining customized or personalized information regarding the skin and subcutaneous tissue flora and its associated metabolome there from. This may be accomplished by simultaneously identifying hundreds of microorganisms or metabolites on an individual's skin and subcutaneous tissue and comparing the resulting profile to a previously compiled healthy profile from our database of skin profiles. An individual's profile provides the basis of a proprietary probiotic skin care product and personal care products that either maintains a health profile or shifts the individual's skin and subcutaneous tissue flora or its associated metabolome close to a healthy profile, at the same time enhancing the synergies between the microbial flora and host's immune system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for characterizing an individual who provides a microbiome, comprising: (a) generating a sequence profile comprising a nucleotide sequence associated with said microbiome; (b) generating a metabolome profile selected from the group consisting of a cellular growth rate associated with said microbiome, a nutrient uptake rate associated with said microbiome, and a byproduct secretion rate associated with said microbiome; (c) comparing said sequence profile and said metabolome profile to a reference profile thereby generating a comparison result; and (d) generating a characterization of said individual based on said comparison result.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said individual is characterized as a high odor individual.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said microbiome is associated with a sample that comprises skin or hair.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using whole genome sequencing.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using next generation sequencing.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using Sanger-sequencing.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using 16S rDNA sequencing.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using 16S rRNA sequencing.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein microbiome profile comprises a bacterium selected from the group consisting of genus Propionibacteria, genus Staphylococci, or genus Corynebacteria.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said metabolic profile is generated using mass-spectrometry.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said reference profile is generated by a machine learning algorithm trained with microbiome and metabolome data from individuals who do not have a disorder associated with the tissue sample.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein said comparison result is generated by a machine learning algorithm trained with microbiome and metabolome data from both individuals who have and individuals who do not have a disorder associated with the tissue sample.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein said disorder comprises acne vulgaris.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein said disorder comprises body odor.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said characterization of said tissue sample comprises a determination of a presence of a disorder and a relative degree of presence of said disorder within said tissue sample.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein said comparison result, said sequence profile or said metabolome profile is used to determine a custom treatment modality.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said custom treatment modality comprises one or more agents that promote growth of a micro-organism within said microbiome.
18. A system for characterizing an individual who provides a microbiome, comprising: (a) a processor; and (b) a non-transitory computer readable storage medium encoded with instructions executable by the processor that cause the processor to: (i) generate a sequence profile comprising a sequence associated with said microbiome; (ii) generate a metabolome profile is selected from the group consisting of a cellular growth rate associated with said microbiome, a nutrient uptake rate associated with said microbiome, and a byproduct secretion rate associated with said microbiome; (iii) compare said sequence profile and said metabolome profile to one or more reference profiles thereby generating a comparison result; and (iv) generate a characterization of said individual based on said comparison result.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein said individual is characterized as a high odor individual.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein said microbiome is associated with a sample that comprises skin or hair.
21. The system of claim 18, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using whole genome sequencing.
22. The system of claim 18, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using next generation sequencing.
23. The system of claim 18, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using Sanger-sequencing.
24. The system of claim 18, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using 16S rDNA sequencing.
25. The system of claim 18, wherein said plurality of nucleotide sequences are generated using 16S rRNA sequencing.
26. The system of claim 18, wherein said microbiome comprises a bacterium selected from a group consisting of genus Propionibacteria, genus Staphylococci, and genus Corynebacteria.
27. The system of claim 18, wherein said metabolic profile is generated using mass-spectrometry.
28. The system of claim 18, wherein said reference profile is generated by a machine learning algorithm trained with microbiome and metabolome data from individuals who do not have a disorder associated with the tissue sample.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein said comparison result is generated by a machine learning algorithm trained with microbiome and metabolome data from both individuals who have and individuals who do not have a disorder associated with the tissue sample.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein said disorder comprises acne vulgaris.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein said disorder comprises body odor.
32. The system of claim 18, wherein said characterization of said individual comprises a determination of a presence of a disorder and a relative degree of presence of said disorder within said tissue sample.
33. The system of claim 18, wherein one or more of said comparison result, said sequence profile and said metabolome profile is used to determine a custom treatment modality.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein said custom treatment modality comprises one or more agents that promote growth of a micro-organism within said microbiome.
35. A method for characterizing an individual who provides a microbiome, comprising: (a) generating a metabolome profile selected from the group consisting of a cellular growth rate associated with said microbiome, a nutrient uptake rate associated with said microbiome, and a byproduct secretion rate associated with said microbiome; (b) comparing said metabolome profile to a reference profile thereby generating a comparison result; and (c) generating a characterization of said individual based on said comparison result.
36. A method for characterizing an individual who provides a microbiome, comprising: (a) generating a sequence profile comprising a nucleotide sequence associated with said microbiome generated using next generation sequencing; (b) comparing said sequence profile to a reference profile thereby generating a comparison result; and (c) generating a characterization of said individual based on said comparison result.
</claims>
</document>
