<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONNELLY, CHRISTOPHER
SINGH, Kanwar Inder
KISHOREPURIA, Praveen
KAR, Harshavardhan Basantkumar
KEERY, Barton FitzGerald
BREMER, Todd
NADIMINTI, Vivek
SHIFRIN, Aaron L.
SHUDA, Shinichiro
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-LEARNING ANALYTICAL ATTRIBUTE AND CLUSTERING SEGMENTATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A self-learning system for analytical attribute and clustering segmentation may be provided. A text classifier may identify a log description of a log entry in response to text of the log description being associated with indicators of a word model. A datafield classifier may generate a datafield metrics including an accuracy value of the attribute identifiers representing the datafield. A metafield classifier may generate a context metrics for the context of the log entry, the context metrics including an accuracy value of the attribute identifiers representing the metafields. A combination classifier may form a weighted classification set and select an attribute identifier as being representative of the datafield based on the weighted classification set. The combination classifier may further evaluate an attribute importance value of each attribute identifier, and select an attribute identifier having a top attribute importance value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: non-transitory memory storing instructions executable to associate a log entry with an attribute identifier; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: execute a text classifier to identify a log description of the log entry and a metafield of the log entry; execute the text classifier to determine whether the log description includes a datafield by comparing the log description with a datafield indicator; execute a datafield classifier to generate datafield metrics for the datafield corresponding to a plurality of attribute identifiers, the datafield metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the datafield and the plurality of attribute identifiers; execute a metadata classifier to generate metafield metrics for the metafield corresponding to the plurality of attribute identifiers, the metafield metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the metafield and the plurality of attribute identifiers; execute a combination classifier to generate and apply weight values to the datafield metrics and the metafield metrics; execute the combination classifier to generate weighted metrics for the log entry, the weighted metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the log entry and the plurality of attribute identifiers; execute the combination classifier to evaluate an attribute importance value of each attribute identifier; in response to the evaluation of the attribute importance value, execute the combination classifier to select an attribute identifier of the plurality of attribute identifiers having a greatest attribute importance value; and execute the combination classifier to generate a log entry association based on the weighted metrics, the log entry association including an association between the log entry and a corresponding attribute associated with the selected attribute identifier.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein, when the log entry association is generated, the processor is configured to: execute a feedback controller to receive an association feedback, the association feedback including a validity of the log entry association and a priority of a specific attribute; provide the association feedback to the combination classifier; adjust the weighted metrics based on the association feedback; and adjust the log entry association to associate the log entry with the specific attribute based on the adjusted weighted metrics.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein, when the log entry association is generated, the processor is further configured to: prioritize the corresponding attribute; output a model of an implementation of resource allocations based on the log entry association; and automatically perform the resource allocations and corresponding responsibilities according to the outputted model.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein, when the association feedback is received, the processor is configured to: execute the feedback controller to receive the association feedback; determine the validity of the log entry association based on the association feedback; and in response to determining that the log entry association is valid, provide the association feedback to the combination classifier.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to determining that the log entry association is invalid, correct the log entry association based on the association feedback by associating the log entry with an updated attribute; and store the corrected log entry association into the memory.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine whether the metafield metrics are greater than a predefined influence value; in response to determining that the metafield metrics are greater than the predefined influence value, select an outlier metafield of the log entry, the outlier metafield including any statistical outlier compared with the metafield metrics of other metafields; and generate the log entry association based the selected outlier metafield.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to: use the selected outlier metafield for the log entry association to perform clustering.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: use the log entry association to perform clustering.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein, when the log entry association is used to perform the clustering, the processor is configured to: determine a data type of an attribute associated with the log entry in the log entry association; generate a number of clusters corresponding to the data type of the attribute, the data type including quantitative data and categorical data; provide, to an artificial intelligence circuitry, the number of clusters to evaluate performance of each machine learning model of a plurality of machine learning models, wherein the artificial intelligence circuitry executed the plurality of machine learning models that have been trained with a plurality of clusters; and in response to the evaluation of the performance of the each machine learning model, identify an optimal number of clusters.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein, when the performance of the each machine learning model is evaluated, the processor is configured to: evaluate the performance of the each machine learning model based on a evaluation score, wherein the evaluation score is determined based on a similarity of the clusters executed from the each machine learning model to target data; and in response to the evaluation of the performance of the each machine learning model, select a machine learning model having a highest evaluation score.
11. A computer-implemented method performed by a processor configured to execute instructions to associate a log entry with an attribute identifier stored in non-transitory memory, the method comprising: identifying, by using a text classifier, a log description of the log entry and a metafield of the log entry; determining, by using the text classifier, whether the log description includes a datafield by comparing the log description with a datafield indicator; generating, by using a datafield classifier, datafield metrics for the datafield corresponding to a plurality of attribute identifiers, the datafield metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the datafield and the plurality of attribute identifiers; generating, by using a metadata classifier, metafield metrics for the metafield corresponding to the plurality of attribute identifiers, the metafield metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the metafield and the plurality of attribute identifiers; applying, by using a combination classifier, weight values to the datafield metrics and the metafield metrics; generating, by using the combination classifier, weighted metrics for the log entry, the weighted metrics including an accuracy value indicating an association between the log entry and the plurality of attribute identifiers; evaluating, by using the combination classifier, an attribute importance value of each attribute identifier; in response to the evaluation of the attribute importance value, selecting, by using the combination classifier, an attribute identifier of the plurality of attribute identifiers having a greatest attribute importance value; and generating, by using the combination classifier, a log entry association based on the weighted metrics, the log entry association including an association between the log entry and a corresponding attribute associated with the selected attribute identifier.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the generation of the log entry association includes: receiving, by using a feedback controller, an association feedback, the association feedback including a validity of the log entry association and a priority of a specific attribute; providing the association feedback to the combination classifier; adjusting the weighted metrics based on the association feedback; and adjusting the log entry association to associate the log entry with the specific attribute based on the adjusted weighted metrics.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: prioritizing the corresponding attribute; outputting a model of an implementation of resource allocations based on the long entry association; and automatically performing the resource allocations and corresponding responsibilities according to the outputted model.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the receiving of the association feedback includes: receiving, by using the feedback controller, the association feedback; determining the validity of the log entry association based on the association feedback; and in response to determining that the log entry association is valid, providing the association feedback to the combination classifier.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: in response to determining that the log entry association is invalid, correcting the log entry association based on the association feedback by associating the log entry with an updated attribute; and storing the corrected log entry association into the memory.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: determining whether the metafield metrics are greater than a predefined influence value; in response to determining that the metafield metrics are greater than the predefined influence value, selecting an outlier metafield of the log entry, the outlier metafield including any statistical outlier compared with the metafield metrics of other metafields; and generating the log entry association based the selected outlier metafield.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: using the selected outlier metafield for the log entry association to perform clustering.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: using the log entry association to perform clustering.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the use of the log entry association to perform the clustering includes: determining a data type of an attribute associated with the log entry in the log entry association; generating a number of clusters corresponding to the data type of the attribute, the data type including quantitative data and categorical data; providing, to an artificial intelligence circuitry, the number of clusters to evaluate performance of each machine learning model of a plurality of machine learning models, wherein the artificial intelligence circuitry executed the plurality of machine learning models that have been trained with a plurality of clusters; and in response to the evaluation of the performance of the each machine learning model, identifying an optimal number of clusters.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the evaluation of the performance of the each machine learning model includes: evaluating the performance of the each machine learning model based on a evaluation score, wherein the evaluation score is determined based on a similarity of the clusters executed from the each machine learning model to target data; and in response to the evaluation of the performance of the each machine learning model, selecting a machine learning model having a highest evaluation score.
</claims>
</document>
