<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04W24/02,H04W24/08,H04W28/02,H04W28/24,H04W36/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARIHARAN, SRIKANTH
RAJA, ADNAN
SINGH, SARABJOT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280175
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SERVICE AWARE COVERAGE DEGRADATION DETECTION AND ROOT CAUSE IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system can include a network analysis platform that applies performance models to determine if a coverage degradation exists at a network cell, such as at a base station. The performance models are pre-trained based on network telemetry data. For a session at a cell, an expected quality of service ("QoS") metric can be compared to an actual QoS metric to determine whether the session is impacted by coverage degradation. Throughput is an example QoS metric. If the number of impacted sessions exceeds a threshold, the base station can be highlighted on a GUI. Additionally, the network analysis platform can perform root cause analysis of a victim cell.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting coverage degradation in a telco network, comprising: receiving telemetry data; determining a percentile of path loss for a first base station relative to an average path loss for multiple base stations in the telco network; for a wireless session, predicting an expected throughput based on at least a threshold non-acknowledged packet rate and the percentile of path loss; determining that the wireless session suffers from poor coverage based on comparing an actual throughput with the expected throughput; and based on a threshold number of wireless sessions suffering from the poor coverage at the first based station, indicating the poor coverage with respect to the first base station on a graphical user interface ("GUI").
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the normalized signal quality is determined based on at least one of: a percentile of the first sessions' path loss relative to signal quality of other sessions at the first base station, overall path loss across the plurality of base stations, an acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations, and a negative acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting is performed by a model that considers natural path loss based on a distance between a user device and the first base station.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a root cause analysis of the poor coverage at the first base station, including: determining a threshold based on a distribution of average path loss across the plurality of base stations; and comparing an average path loss of the first base station to the threshold.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, based on the average path loss for the first base station exceeding a threshold, indicating that a root cause of the first base station's path loss is at least one of incorrect transmission power and electronic tilt configuration.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the threshold comprises setting a threshold at the 75th percentile of the distribution.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a same performance model is used to determine actual throughput and predict the expected throughput.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium containing instructions that, when executed by a hardware-based processor, performs stages for detecting coverage degradation in a telco network, the stages comprising: receiving telemetry data; determining a percentile of path loss for a first base station relative to an average path loss for multiple base stations in the telco network; for a wireless session, predicting an expected throughput based on at least a threshold non-acknowledged packet rate and the percentile of path loss; determining that the wireless session suffers from poor coverage based on comparing an actual throughput with the expected throughput; and based on a threshold number of wireless sessions suffering from the poor coverage at the first based station, indicating the poor coverage with respect to the first base station on a graphical user interface ("GUI").
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the normalized signal quality is determined based on at least one of: a percentile of the first sessions' path loss relative to signal quality of other sessions at the first base station, overall path loss across the plurality of base stations, an acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations, and a negative acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the predicting is performed by a model that considers natural path loss based on a distance between a user device and the first base station.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the stages further comprising performing a root cause analysis of the poor coverage at the first base station, including: determining a threshold based a distribution of average path loss across the plurality of base stations; and comparing an average path loss of the first base station to the threshold.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, the stages further comprising, based on the average path loss for the first base station exceeding a threshold, indicating that a root cause of the first base station's path loss is at least one of incorrect transmission power and electronic tilt configuration.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein determining the threshold comprises setting a threshold at the 75th percentile of the distribution.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein a same performance model is used to determine actual throughput and predict the expected throughput.
15. A system for detecting coverage degradation in a telco network, comprising: a memory storage including a non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising instructions; and a computing device including a hardware-based processor that executes the instructions to carry out stages comprising: receiving telemetry data; determining a percentile of path loss for a first base station relative to an average path loss for multiple base stations in the telco network; for a wireless session, predicting an expected throughput based on at least a threshold non-acknowledged packet rate and the percentile of path loss; determining that the wireless session suffers from poor coverage based on comparing an actual throughput with the expected throughput; and based on a threshold number of wireless sessions suffering from the poor coverage at the first based station, indicating the poor coverage with respect to the first base station on a graphical user interface ("GUI").
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the normalized signal quality is determined based on at least one of: a percentile of the first sessions' path loss relative to signal quality of other sessions at the first base station, overall path loss across the plurality of base stations; an acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations; and a negative acknowledgement rate across the plurality of base stations.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the predicting is performed by a model that considers natural path loss based on a distance between a user device and the first base station.
18. The system of claim 15, the stages further comprising performing a root cause analysis of the poor coverage at the first base station, including: determining a threshold based a distribution of average path loss across the plurality of base stations; and comparing an average path loss of the first base station to the threshold.
19. The system of claim 18, the stages further comprising, based on the average path loss for the first base station exceeding a threshold, indicating that a root cause of the first base station's path loss is at least one of incorrect transmission power and electronic tilt configuration.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein determining the threshold comprises setting a threshold at the 75th percentile of the distribution.
</claims>
</document>
