<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G06Q30/00,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Talkdesk, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADIBI, JAFAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065560
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING PREDICTIONS FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS BY DETERMINING PROBLEM FEATURES BASED ON CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION ASSOCIATED WITH SERVICE SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems, methods, and non-transitory computer readable media for generating purpose predictions and options for processing electronic communications. For example, the disclosed systems can determine a problem feature related to a service system corresponding to a contacting user based on contextual information associated with the service system. In addition, the disclosed systems can receive an electronic communication from a contacting user device and can determine contacting user information based on the received electronic communication. Further, the disclosed systems can generate a purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the contacting user information and the contextual information. The disclosed systems can further determine options for processing the electronic communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving an electronic communication associated with a contacting user; receiving a communication dialog; determining a purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog; generating an agent transcript for the electronic communication based on the determined purpose; and providing the agent transcript to an agent device of an agent handling the electronic communication for the contacting user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining contacting user information for the contacting user; and determining the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the determined contact information.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the contacting user information for the contacting user comprises determining the contacting user information from metadata associated with the electronic communication.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a problem feature based on contextual information associated with the contacting user; and determining the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the problem feature.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining one or more service systems associated with the contacting user; and determining the contextual information based on the determined one or more service systems.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising extracting the communication dialog from the electronic communication.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a topic for the electronic communication; and determining the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the determined topic.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a computer system to: receive an electronic communication associated with a contacting user; receive a communication dialog; determine a purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog; generate an agent transcript for the electronic communication based on the determined purpose; and provide the agent transcript to an agent device of an agent handling the electronic communication for the contacting user.
9. The computer-readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: determine contacting user information for the contacting user; and determine the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the determined contact information.
10. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining the contacting user information for the contacting user comprises determining the contacting user information from metadata associated with the electronic communication.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: identify a problem feature based on contextual information associated with the contacting user; and determine the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the problem feature.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: determine one or more service systems associated with the contacting user; and determine the contextual information based on the determined one or more service systems.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to extract the communication dialog from the electronic communication.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: determine a topic for the electronic communication; and determine the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the determined topic.
15. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive an electronic communication associated with a contacting user; receive a communication dialog; determine a purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog; generate an agent transcript for the electronic communication based on the determined purpose; and provide the agent transcript to an agent device of an agent handling the electronic communication for the contacting user.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: determine contacting user information for the contacting user; and determine the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the determined contact information.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the contacting user information for the contacting user comprises determining the contacting user information from metadata associated with the electronic communication.
18. The system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: identify a problem feature based on contextual information associated with the contacting user; and determine the purpose prediction for the electronic communication based on the communication dialog and the problem feature.
19. The system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: determine one or more service systems associated with the contacting user; and determine the contextual information based on the determined one or more service systems.
20. The system of claim 15, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to extract the communication dialog from the electronic communication.
</claims>
</document>
