<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
OH, SANGHOON
KIM, YOUNGKOOK
IM, SANGKYUN
CHEONG, SEONGKOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69375282
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device is provided that includes a communication interface including communication circuitry; and a processor configured to, based on receiving a first partial image, transmit first image quality information obtained from the first partial image to an external electronic device. The processor is further configured to, based on receiving, from the external electronic device, second image quality information obtained from a second partial image, obtain image quality processing information based on the first image quality information and the second image quality information. The processor is further configured to process the first partial image based on the image quality processing information, and transmit, via the communication interface, the first partial image processed to one of a plurality of display modules included in an external display device, wherein the external electronic device is configured to provide the second partial image to another module among the plurality of display modules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a communication interface comprising communication circuitry; and a processor configured to: based on receiving a first partial image, transmit first image quality information obtained from the first partial image to an external electronic device, based on receiving, from the external electronic device, second image quality information obtained from a second partial image, obtain image quality processing information based on the first image quality information and the second image quality information, and process the first partial image based on the image quality processing information, and transmit, via the communication interface, the first partial image processed to one of a plurality of display modules included in an external display device, wherein the external electronic device is configured to provide the second partial image to another module among the plurality of display modules.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the electronic device is a master device and the external electronic device is a slave device, and the processor is further configured to control the communication interface to transmit the image quality processing information to the external electronic device.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein each of the first partial image and the second partial image is a part of an image frame that is displayed in the external display device.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein each of the first partial image and the second partial image is provided to the external display device after being processed based on the image quality processing information by the electronic device and the external electronic device, respectively.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the image quality processing information based on predetermined reference information.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: after receiving a current image frame included in the first partial image and before receiving a next image frame, process the current image frame based on the image quality processing information and transmit the current image frame that is processed to the one of the plurality of display modules.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the image quality processing information based on at least one of a maximum value, a minimum value, or an average value of the first image quality information and the second image quality information.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the image quality processing information comprises at least one from among luminance information, pixel value information, contrast ratio information, and resolution information.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the first partial image and the second partial image are configured to be provided to the electronic device and the external electronic device, respectively, from an image providing device storing an image content including the first partial image and the second partial image.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the first partial image and the second partial image have a 4 kilo pixel (K) resolution, and each of the plurality of display modules has the 4K resolution.
11. An electronic system comprising: a display device comprising a first display module, a second display module, a third display module, and a fourth display module; a first electronic device configured to: based on receiving a first partial image, transmit first image quality information obtained from the first partial image to a second electronic device, a third electronic device, and a fourth electronic device, based on receiving second image quality information obtained from a second partial image from the second electronic device, receiving third image quality information obtained from a third partial image from the third electronic device, and receiving fourth image quality information obtained from a fourth partial image from the fourth electronic device, obtain image quality processing information based on the first through fourth image quality information, and process the first partial image based on the image quality processing information, and transmit the first partial image that is processed to the first display module; a second electronic device configured to obtain the image quality processing information based on the first through fourth image quality information, process the second partial image based on the image quality processing information obtained, and transmit the second partial image that is processed to the second display module; a third electronic device configured to obtain the image quality processing information based on the first through fourth image quality information, process the third partial image based on the image quality processing information obtained, and transmit the third partial image that is processed to the third display module; and a fourth electronic device configured to obtain the image quality processing information based on the first through fourth image quality information, process the fourth partial image based on the image quality processing information obtained, and transmit the fourth partial image that is processed to the fourth display module.
12. The electronic system of claim 11, wherein the first through fourth partial images have a 4 kilo pixel (4K) resolution, and wherein each of the first through fourth display modules has the 4K resolution.
13. A method for controlling a system including an electronic device, the method comprising: based on receiving a first partial image, transmitting first image quality information obtained from the first partial image to an external electronic device; based on receiving, from the external electronic device, second image quality information obtained from a second partial image, obtaining image quality processing information based on the first image quality information and the second image quality information; processing the first partial image based on the image quality processing information, and transmitting the first partial image processed to one of a plurality of display modules of a display device, wherein the external electronic device is configured to provide the second partial image to another module among the plurality of display modules of the display device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the electronic device is a master device and the external electronic device is a slave device, and the method further comprising: transmitting the image quality processing information to the external electronic device.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein each of the first partial image and the second partial image is a part of an image frame that is displayed in the display device.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transmitting, via the external electronic device, the second partial image to the display device, wherein each of the first partial image and the second partial image is provided to the display device after being processed based on the image quality processing information by the electronic device and the external electronic device, respectively.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the obtaining the image quality processing information comprises obtaining, by the electronic device, the image quality processing information based on predetermined reference information, and the method further comprises obtaining the image quality processing information by the external electronic device, based on the first image quality information and the second image quality information, wherein the predetermined reference information is used for obtaining the image quality information based on the first and second image quality information by the external electronic device.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the transmitting to the one of the plurality of display modules comprises: after receiving a current image frame included in the first partial image and before receiving a next image frame, processing the current image frame based on the image quality processing information and transmitting the current image frame processed to the one of the plurality of display modules.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the obtaining the image quality processing information comprises obtaining the image quality processing information based on at least one of a maximum value, a minimum value, or an average value of the first image quality information and the second image quality information.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the first partial image and the second partial image have a 4 kilo pixel (4K) resolution, and each of the plurality of display modules has the 4K resolution.
</claims>
</document>
