<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B66B1/34,B66B1/46,H04W4/029,H04W4/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEI, LIEPING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68916377
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONFIGURING STOPPABLE FLOOR INFORMATION SET FOR ELEVATOR CAR OF ELEVATOR SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Configuring stoppable floor information set for an elevator cabin of an elevator system. The elevator system of the present invention comprises an elevator cabin, an elevator control device and a wireless signal module which is configured to wirelessly receive a request of registering a destination floor from a passenger's personal mobile terminal and send a corresponding destination floor of the elevator cabin to the elevator control device based on the request of registering the destination floor; wherein the wireless signal module is further configured to obtain landing floor information corresponding to the elevator cabin from the elevator system, and the elevator system configures an stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the obtained landing floor information through a handheld terminal and/or the wireless signal module. The stoppable floor information set configured in the present invention is accurate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An elevator system, comprising: an elevator cabin; an elevator control device configured to at least control the elevator cabin to move in an elevator shaft and land at each stoppable floor; and a wireless signal module configured to wirelessly receive a request of registering a destination floor from a passenger's personal mobile terminal and send a corresponding destination floor of the elevator cabin to the elevator control device based on the request of registering the destination floor; wherein the wireless signal module is further configured to obtain landing floor information corresponding to the elevator cabin from the elevator system, and the elevator system configures an stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the obtained landing floor information through a handheld terminal and/or the wireless signal module.
2. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein said elevator system is provided with a corresponding storage end which stores the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin.
3. The elevator system according to claim 2, wherein the storage end provides the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin which can be downloaded and acquired by the personal mobile terminal; wherein the personal mobile terminal is configured to sense wireless signals broadcast by the wireless signal module and establish a wireless connection with the wireless signal module, and to automatically send the request of registering a destination floor to the wireless signal module based on the stoppable floor information set.
4. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein wireless signal module is further configured to send the landing floor information to the handheld terminal; the elevator system determines the landing floor information as stoppable floor object corresponding to the elevator cabin through the handheld terminal which can establish wireless connection with the wireless signal module, and builds the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin through the handheld terminal, wherein an element of the stoppable floor information set includes the stoppable floor object.
5. The elevator system according to claim 4, wherein the elevator system wirelessly sends the stoppable floor information set to the storage end through the handheld terminal which has established wireless connection with the wireless signal module.
6. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein the wireless signal module is further configured to automatically build the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the obtained landing floor information.
7. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein the wireless signal module is further configured to send the stoppable floor information set to the handheld terminal; wherein the elevator system wirelessly sends the stoppable floor information set to the storage end through the handheld terminal.
8. The elevator system according to claim 2, wherein the storage end is a cloud server or is arranged in the wireless signal module.
9. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein said elevator system comprises: a first Bluetooth module installed in the elevator cabin, which is used for broadcasting a first Bluetooth signal and automatically establishing a first Bluetooth connection with the personal mobile terminal based on the first Bluetooth signal, and receiving the request of registering the destination floor sent from the personal mobile terminal upon establishment of the first Bluetooth connection; and a second Bluetooth module installed in a landing station area, which is used for broadcasting a second Bluetooth signal and automatically establishing a second Bluetooth connection with the personal mobile terminal based on the second Bluetooth signal, and receiving an elevator call request about an elevator moving direction sent from the personal mobile terminal upon establishment of the second Bluetooth connection; wherein the wireless signal module is the first Bluetooth module.
10. The elevator system according to claim 1, wherein the wireless signal module is further configured to monitor changes of the information of actual stoppable floors of the elevator cabin compared to the existing or configured stoppable floor information set.
11. A handheld terminal, comprising a memory, a processor and a computer program stored in the memory and executable on the processor, wherein the processor implements the following steps when executing the computer program: receiving landing floor information from the wireless signal module wirelessly connected with the handheld terminal, wherein the landing floor information is corresponding to landing floor when an elevator cabin lands at each stoppable floor; determining the landing floor information as stoppable floor object of the corresponding elevator cabin; building a landing floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin, wherein an element of the stoppable floor information set includes the stoppable floor object; and sending the stoppable floor information set wirelessly to the storage end.
12. A method of configuring an stoppable floor information set for an elevator cabin of an elevator system, which includes the steps of: in the process that the elevator cabin moves in an elevator shaft and lands at each stoppable floor, obtaining the corresponding landing floor information through a wireless signal module of the elevator system; and configuring an stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the obtained landing floor information; wherein, the wireless signal module is configured to wirelessly receive a request of registering a destination floor from a passenger and send a corresponding destination floor of the elevator cabin to the elevator system based on the request of registering the destination floor.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the step of configuring the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin includes updating the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the landing floor information.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein an element of the stoppable floor information set includes the stoppable floor object corresponding to the landing floor information; in the step of configuring the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin, if the landing floor information does not correspond to the stoppable floor object of the existing stoppable floor information set, it will be added as stoppable floor object into the existing stoppable floor information set so as to form an updated stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the element of the stoppable floor information set includes the stoppable floor object corresponding to the landing floor information; in the step of configuring the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin, after the elevator cabin has landed at each stoppable floor, if a certain stoppable floor object in the existing stoppable floor information set could not correspond to any of the landing floor information obtained by the wireless signal module, it will be deleted from the existing stoppable floor information set so as to form an updated stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin.
16. The method according to claim 12, wherein the step of configuring the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin includes: sending the landing floor information to the handheld terminal through the wireless signal module of the elevator system; determining the landing floor information as the stoppable floor object corresponding to the elevator cabin through the handheld terminal; building the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin through the handheld terminal, wherein the element of the stoppable floor information set includes the stoppable floor object; and sending the stoppable floor information set wirelessly to the storage end through the handheld terminal.
17. The method according to claim 12, wherein the step of configuring the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin includes: automatically building the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin through the wireless signal module of the elevator system; sending the stoppable floor information set to the handheld terminal through the wireless signal module of the elevator system; and sending the stoppable floor information set wirelessly to the storage end through the handheld terminal.
18. The method according to claim 16, wherein the storage end stores the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin, and provides the stoppable floor information set corresponding to the elevator cabin which can be downloaded and acquired by the personal mobile terminal; wherein, the personal mobile terminal is configured to sense wireless signals broadcast by the wireless signal module and establish a wireless connection with the wireless signal module, and to automatically send the request of registering the destination floor to the wireless signal module based on the stoppable floor information set.
19. The method according to claim 16, wherein the storage end is a cloud server or is arranged in the wireless signal module.
20. The method according to claim 12, wherein the stoppable floor information set includes a set of upward stoppable floors information and/or a set of downward stoppable floors information; the set of upward stoppable floors information/set of downward stoppable floors information is obtained through the following: the elevator cabin moving upward/downward in the elevator shaft and landing at each upward/downward stoppable floor; obtaining the corresponding landing floor information by the wireless signal module of the elevator system; and configuring the set of upward stoppable floors information/the set of downward stoppable floors information corresponding to the elevator cabin based on the obtained landing floor information.
</claims>
</document>
