<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q20/38,G16H10/60,G16H20/00,G16H50/30,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KUTZKO, JOHN D.
WRIGHT, WAYNE C. A.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUTZKO, JOHN D.
WRIGHT, WAYNE C. A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72143023
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR PREDICTING THE HEALTH AND THERAPEUTIC BEHAVIOR OF INDIVIDUALS USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE, SMART CONTRACTS AND BLOCKCHAIN
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method of predicting the health and therapeutic behavior of patients and making treatment plan recommendations includes the steps of: receiving patient healthcare data having one or more conditions and limiting factors; determining a therapeutic behavior pattern of patient; determining unsuccessful therapies and successful therapies for each condition based on therapeutic behavior pattern; and calculating cost quote for successful therapies based on limiting factors for time period. A computer implemented method of providing cost effective therapy for a patient is also provided and includes the steps of: receiving patient healthcare data; determining unsuccessful therapies and successful therapies; calculating probability of disease progression; calculating possible therapies ranked by probability of successful treatment; calculate cost quote for possible therapies; and paying a smart contract for a selected therapy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for making artificial intelligence based medical treatment plan recommendations comprising the steps of: retrieving healthcare data of a patient from a blockchain database, wherein the healthcare data comprises one or more existing conditions and/or one or more new conditions, one or more limiting factors, and a compliance record for the existing condition; an artificial intelligence system determining a therapeutic behavior pattern of the patient; the artificial intelligence system determining one or more therapies for the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions based on the healthcare data of the patient, wherein the artificial intelligence system is stored on an electronic device including a processor; the artificial intelligence system determining one or more cost quotes for the one or more therapies; receiving selection of a therapy and a cost quote for the selected therapy; and the blockchain database creating a smart contract for the execution of the selected therapy.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions are identified with an ICD-10 code and the one or more therapies includes a prescription drug which is identified with a National Drug Code.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein access to the healthcare data of a patient is controlled by the patient, and wherein the healthcare data of a patient is retrieved from the blockchain database in exchange for a native cryptocurrency.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating, by the artificial intelligence system, a probability of disease progression for the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions with the selected therapy and a probability of disease progression for the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions without the selected therapy.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically retraining the artificial intelligence system upon addition of new healthcare data to the blockchain database.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more therapies for the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions further comprises analyzing the influence of one or more comorbidities, analyzing the interactions between two or more medications and side effects of the combination of two or more medications, or analyzing possible side effects of the one or more therapies.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: the blockchain database verifying the identity of a patient at an onset of a medical care visit and making native cryptocurrency funds available for a payment related to the medical care visit; one or more parts of the healthcare data of the patient being allocated for viewing by one or more healthcare providers at the onset of the medical care visit; updating the healthcare data of the patient on the blockchain database with health records and service notes from the medical care visit; and automatically transferring payment according to the terms of the smart contract to the healthcare provider in the form of a native cryptocurrency immediately at the completion of the medical visit.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more therapies include a laboratory test, a medical device, a digital health technology, a prescriptive drug, medical cannabis, a surgical procedure, a phytocannabinoid, and a terpenoid molecule.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: wherein the selected therapy comprises a prescriptive drug; receiving submissions from one or more pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug; storing the submissions on the blockchain database; receiving a selection of a pharmacy of the one or pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug; the selected pharmacy dispensing the prescriptive drug to the patient; and recording the dispensing of the prescriptive drug on the blockchain database.
10. A method for making artificial intelligence based medical treatment plan recommendations comprising the steps of: retrieving healthcare data of a patient from a blockchain database, wherein the healthcare data comprises one or more existing conditions and/or one or more new conditions; an artificial intelligence system determining one or more therapies based on the healthcare data of the patient, wherein the artificial intelligence system is stored on an electronic device including a processor; the artificial intelligence system calculating a probability of disease progression for the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions; the artificial intelligence system ranking the one or more therapies by probability of successfully treating the one or more existing conditions and/or the one or more new conditions; the artificial intelligence system determining one or more cost quotes for the one or more therapies; receiving a selection of a therapy and a cost quote for the selected therapy; the blockchain database creating a smart contract for the execution of the selected therapy; and wherein the selected therapy is paid for with a native cryptocurrency.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the selected therapy comprises a prescriptive drug, further comprising receiving submissions from one or more pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug, receiving a selection of a pharmacy of the one or pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug, and storing the selection of the pharmacy with the smart contract in the blockchain database.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein access to the healthcare data of a patient is controlled by the patient, and wherein the healthcare data of a patient is retrieved from the blockchain database in exchange for a native cryptocurrency.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more existing conditions and/or one or more new conditions are identified with an ICD-10 code and the one or more therapies includes a prescription drug which is identified with a National Drug Code.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the smart contract is executed upon a transfer of a native cryptocurrency.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more therapies include a laboratory test, a medical device, a digital health technology, a prescriptive drug, medical cannabis, a surgical procedure, a phytocannabinoid, and a terpenoid molecule.
16. A system for making artificial intelligence based medical treatment plan recommendations comprising: an electronic device including a processor and an artificial intelligence system; and a blockchain database including healthcare data of a patient, wherein the healthcare data of a patient includes at least one condition; wherein the artificial intelligence system receives the healthcare data of the patient and determines at least one therapy for the at least one condition; wherein the artificial intelligence system calculates a probability of disease progression for the at least one conditions; wherein the artificial intelligence system determines at least one cost quote for the at least one therapy; and wherein the blockchain database creates at least one smart contract for the at least one therapy.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein a cryptocurrency token is transferred as payment for the patient to receive the at least one therapy.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one therapy comprises a first therapy option and a second therapy option, and wherein the first possible therapy option and the second possible therapy option are ranked based on probability of being a successful treatment based on factors including the patient's treatment compliance history, cost of the first possible therapy option and the second possible therapy option, and historical success rate of the first possible therapy option and the second possible therapy option as determined from information stored on the blockchain database.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one smart contract is stored in the blockchain database, and wherein the smart contract is executed in upon a transfer of a native cryptocurrency.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one therapy comprises a prescriptive drug, wherein the system receives submissions from one or more pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug, and wherein the system receives a selection of a pharmacy of the one or pharmacies to dispense the prescriptive drug, and the selection of the pharmacy is stored with the at least one smart contract in the blockchain database.
</claims>
</document>
