<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING INTELLIGENCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHENG, JIE-ZHI
GONG, ZAIWEN
WU, JIBING
ZHAN, HENGZE
ZHAN, YIQIANG
ZHOU, XIANG SEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING IMAGE METRIC
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure may provide a method. The method may include processing an image of a subject using a detection model to generate one or more detection results corresponding to one or more objects in the image; and generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to perform operations including: processing an image of a subject using a detection model to generate one or more detection results corresponding to one or more objects in the image; and generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
2. (canceled)
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more objects include at least one of a lung, a spine, a scapula, a heart, a foreign object, an abnormal part, or a portion thereof, in the image; and the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects include at least one of a position of one of the one or more objects in the image, a bounding box of one of the one or more objects in the image, a contour of one of the one or more objects in the image, a region of the image that corresponds to one of the one or more objects in the image, or a dimension of one of the one or more objects in the image.
4. (canceled)
5. The system of claim 3, or wherein the generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: determining whether the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects satisfy a condition; and generating the image metric of the image based on the determination result.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the condition includes at least one of a first ratio of a first area of a first detection result of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the scapula to a second area of a portion of the image that corresponds to the chest being smaller than or equal to a ratio threshold; a second ratio of a third area of an overlapping region between the first detection result and a second detection result of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the lung to a fourth area of the second detection result being smaller than or equal to a second ratio threshold; a third ratio of the third area to the second area being smaller than or equal to a third ratio threshold; the second detection result being located within a range of the image; a confidence value of a third detection of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the foreign object being smaller than or equal to a confidence value threshold; or an offset value of a fourth detection of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the spine relative to a reference line being smaller than or equal to an offset threshold.
7. (canceled)
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the image metric comprises an image quality classification that includes a first level and a second level, and the generating the image metric of the image based on the determination result includes: determining the image quality classification based on the determination result.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the determining the image quality classification based on the determination result includes: in response to determining that the one or more detection results satisfy the condition, determining that the image belongs to the first level; in response to determining that the second detection result satisfies the condition, that the third detection result fails to satisfy the condition, and that the third detection result is inside the second detection result, determining that the image belongs to the second level; or in response to determining that the second detection result fails to satisfy the condition, determining that the image belongs to the second level.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the image quality classification further includes an intermediate level, and the determining the image quality classification based on the determination result includes: in response to determining that the second detection result satisfies the condition, and that at least one of the fourth detection result or the first detection result fails to satisfy the condition, determining that the image belongs to the intermediate level; or in response to determining that the second detection result satisfies the condition, that the third detection result fails to satisfy the condition, and that the third detection result is located outside the second detection result, determining that the image belongs to the intermediate level.
11. 11-14. (canceled)
15. The system of claim 4, wherein the image metric comprises a clinical finding regarding at least one pathological condition including cardiac hypertrophy, pneumothorax, or pleural effusion, and the generating the image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: obtaining the clinical finding based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the clinical finding relates to a pathological condition of cardiac hypertrophy, and the obtaining the clinical finding based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: determining a fourth ratio of a width of one of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the heart to a width of the second detection result that corresponds to the lung; comparing the fourth ratio with a fourth ratio threshold; and in response to determining that the fourth ratio exceeds the fourth ratio threshold, determining the clinical finding that the pathological condition of cardiac hypertrophy exists.
17. (canceled)
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the clinical finding relates to a pathological condition of pneumothorax, and the obtaining the clinical finding based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: determining a fifth ratio of a count of elements of one of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the abnormal part to a count of elements of the second detection result; and determining, based on the fifth ratio, that a pathological condition of pneumothorax of high-risk pneumothorax or self-healing pneumothorax exists.
19. (canceled)
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the clinical finding relates to a pathological condition of pleural effusion, and the obtaining the clinical finding based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: determining a sixth ratio of a count of elements of one of the one or more detection results that corresponds to the abnormal part to a count of elements of the second detection result; and determining, based on the sixth ratio, that a pathological condition of pleural effusion of high-risk pleural effusion or self-healing pleural effusion exists.
21. The system of claim 4, wherein the detection model includes at least one of a lung detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to a lung in the image; a spine detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to a spine in the image; a scapula detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to a scapula in the image; a foreign object detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to a foreign object in the image; an abnormal part detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to an abnormal part in the image; or a heart detection sub-model configured to determine a detection result corresponding to a heart in the image.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to perform the operations including: preprocessing the image by performing at least one of normalizing the image; adjusting a size of the image; rotating the image; flipping the image; cropping the image; or changing a contrast ratio of the image.
23. 23-24. (canceled)
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the detection model is generated by a training process comprising: obtaining a plurality of training images; and generating the detection model by training, based on, the plurality of training images, a preliminary detection model.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the obtaining a plurality of training images includes: obtaining a plurality of first images; generating a plurality of second images by: adjusting a size of a first training object in each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; rotating a second training object in each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; filling a third training object in each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; translating a fourth training object in each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; flipping each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; cropping each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; or adjusting a contrast ratio of each of at least a part of the plurality of first images; and determining the plurality of training image based on at least some of the plurality of first images and at least some of the plurality of second images.
27. 27-31. (canceled)
32. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium, and a communication platform connected to a network, comprising: processing an image of a subject using a detection model to generate one or more detection results corresponding to one or more objects in the image; and generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
33. 33-35. (canceled)
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: determining whether the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects satisfy a condition; and generating the image metric of the image based on the determination result.
37. 37-45. (canceled)
46. The method of claim 32, wherein the image metric comprises a clinical finding regarding at least one pathological condition including cardiac hypertrophy, pneumothorax, or pleural effusion, and the generating the image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects includes: obtaining the clinical finding based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
47. 47-55. (canceled)
56. The method of claim 32, wherein the detection model is generated by a training process comprising: obtaining a plurality of training images; and generating the detection model by training, based on, the plurality of training images, a preliminary detection model.
57. 57-62. (canceled)
63. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising: instructions being executed by at least one processor, causing the at least one processor to implement a method comprising: processing an image of a subject using a detection model to generate one or more detection results corresponding to one or more objects in the image; and generating an image metric of the image based on the one or more detection results corresponding to the one or more objects.
</claims>
</document>
