<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/10,A61B5/00,A61B5/0496,A61B5/16,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LAVAL UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HÉBERT, MARC
MAZIADE, MICHEL
MÉRETTE, CHANTAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51535712
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USE OF ELECTRORETINOGRAPHY (ERG) FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF PSYCHIATRIC DISORDERS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for the diagnosis, prognosis, patient stratification and prediction of pharmacological response in patients afflicted by psychiatric disorders based on electroretinography (ERG) parameters are described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-146. (canceled)
147. A method for treating a subject, the method comprising: (a) measuring a plurality of ERG parameters from a subject suspected of suffering from a major depressive disorder (MDD), schizophrenia (SZ) and/or bipolar disorder (BP); (b) calculating MDD, SZ and/or BP probability scores by adjusting the value of said plurality of ERG parameters by one or more transformation analyses; (c) determining that the subject suffers from MDD, SZ and/or BP, based on said MDD, SZ and/or BP probability scores; and (d) administering to the subject identified in step (c) as suffering from MDD, SZ, and/or BP a psychotropic medication to treat the MDD, SZ, and/or BP.
148. A method for treating a subject according to claim 147, the method comprising: (a) measuring a plurality of ERG parameters from a subject suspected of suffering from a major depressive disorder (MDD); (b) calculating an MDD probability score by adjusting the value of said plurality of ERG parameters by one or more transformation analyses; (c) determining that the subject suffers from MDD based on said MDD probability score; and (d) administering to the subject identified in step (c) as suffering from MDD a psychotropic medication to treat the MDD.
149. The method of claim 147, wherein the psychotropic medication is an antidepressant, a stimulant, an antipsychotic, a mood stabilizer, or an anxiolytic.
150. The method of claim 149, wherein the psychotropic medication is selected from the group consisting of quetiapine, aripiprazole, olanzapine, lithium, risperidone, synthroid and clozapine.
151. The method of claim 147, wherein the one or more transformation analyses comprise: (i) adjusting the value of the plurality of ERG parameters by weighting coefficients to produce a weighted score for each ERG parameter, and (ii) combining the weighted score for each ERG parameter to generate the MDD, SZ and/or BP probability scores.
152. The method of claim 148, wherein the one or more transformation analyses comprise: (i) adjusting the value of the plurality of ERG parameters by weighting coefficients to produce a weighted score for each ERG parameter, and (ii) combining the weighted score for each ERG parameter to generate the MDD probability score.
153. The method of claim 148, wherein the one or more transformation analyses comprise applying the value of the plurality of ERG parameters to a logistic regression model.
154. The method of claim 153, wherein the logistic regression model was determined using ERG parameter values measured in a first population of MDD subjects and a second population of control subjects.
155. The method of claim 154, wherein the logistic regression model includes age, gender, or both age and gender, as covariate(s).
156. The method of claim 155 wherein the logistic regression model includes both age and gender as covariates.
157. The method of claim 153, wherein said plurality of ERG parameters comprises at least two of the following parameters: the cone a-Wave amplitude (phAamp), the cone a-Wave implicit time (phAlat), the cone b-Wave amplitude (phBamp), the cone b-Wave implicit time (phBlat), the rod a-Wave amplitude (scAamp), the rod a-Wave implicit time (scAlat), the rod b-Wave amplitude (scBamp), the rod b-Wave implicit time (scBlat), the Log K and the Vmax.
158. The method of claim 153, wherein said plurality of ERG parameters comprises at least four of the following parameters: the cone a-Wave amplitude (phAamp), the cone a-Wave implicit time (phAlat), the cone b-Wave amplitude (phBamp), the cone b-Wave implicit time (phBlat), the rod a-Wave amplitude (scAamp), the rod a-Wave implicit time (scAlat), the rod b-Wave amplitude (scBamp), the rod b-Wave implicit time (scBlat), the Log K and the Vmax.
159. The method of claim 158, wherein said plurality of ERG parameters comprises all the following parameters: the cone a-Wave amplitude (phAamp), the cone a-Wave implicit time (phAlat), the cone b-Wave amplitude (phBamp), the cone b-Wave implicit time (phBlat), the rod a-Wave amplitude (scAamp), the rod a-Wave implicit time (scAlat), the rod b-Wave amplitude (scBamp) and the rod b-Wave implicit time (scBlat).
160. A method comprising: I. measuring at least (i) the rod a-wave amplitude and/or (ii) the rod b-wave amplitude, in a subject suspected of suffering from a major depressive disorder (MDD), II. detecting one or both of the following: (a) a rod a-wave amplitude, and/or a rod b-wave amplitude that is lower, relative to the corresponding parameter(s) measured in a control subject not suffering from MDD, or (b) a rod a-wave amplitude, and/or a rod b-wave amplitude that is substantially similar or lower, relative to the corresponding parameter(s) measured in a subject suffering from MDD, III. diagnosing that the subject suffers from MDD from detecting (a) and/or (b); and IV. upon diagnosing that the subject suffers from MDD, administering a psychotropic medication to the subject to treat MDD.
161. A method comprising: I. measuring the cone b-wave implicit time in a subject suspected of suffering from a major depressive disorder (MDD) or schizophrenia (SZ); II. determining that the subject suffers from MDD or SZ from the measuring, wherein (a) (i) a cone b-wave implicit time that is similar or higher relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from SZ, or to be predisposed thereto, or (ii) a cone b-wave implicit time that is higher relative to the corresponding value measured in subjects known to suffer from MDD or to be predisposed thereto, is indicative that said subject suffers from SZ; or (b) (i) a cone b-wave implicit time that is similar or lower relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from MDD or to be predisposed thereto or (ii) a cone b-wave implicit time that is lower relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from SZ or to be predisposed thereto, is indicative that said subject suffers from MDD; and III. administering a psychotropic medication to the subject determined from (II) to suffer from MDD or SZ, to treat the MDD or SZ.
162. A method comprising: I. measuring (i) the cone b-wave implicit time and/or (ii) the rod a-wave implicit time in a subject suspected of suffering from a major depressive disorder (MDD) or bipolar disorder (BP); II. determining that the subject suffers from MDD or BP, wherein (a) (i) a cone b-wave implicit time that is similar or higher and/or a rod a-wave implicit time that is similar or lower relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from BP, or to be predisposed thereto, or (ii) a cone b-wave implicit time that is higher and/or a rod a-wave implicit time that is lower relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from MDD or to be predisposed thereto, is indicative that said subject suffers from BP; and (b) (i) a cone b-wave implicit time that is similar or lower and/or a rod a-wave implicit time that is similar or higher relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from MDD or to be predisposed thereto, or (ii) a cone b-wave implicit time that is lower and/or a rod a-wave implicit time that is higher, relative to the corresponding value(s) measured in subjects known to suffer from BP or to be predisposed thereto, is indicative that said subject suffers from MDD III. administering a psychotropic medication to the subject determined from (II) to suffer from MDD or BP, to treat the MDD or BP.
163. The method of claim 160, wherein the psychotropic medication is an antidepressant, a stimulant, an antipsychotic, a mood stabilizer, or an anxiolytic.
164. The method of claim 163, wherein the psychotropic medication is selected from the group consisting of quetiapine, aripiprazole, olanzapine, lithium, risperidone, synthroid and clozapine.
165. The method of claim 161, wherein the psychotropic medication is an antidepressant, a stimulant, an antipsychotic, a mood stabilizer, or an anxiolytic.
166. The method of claim 162, wherein the psychotropic medication is an antidepressant, a stimulant, an antipsychotic, a mood stabilizer, or an anxiolytic.
</claims>
</document>
