<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/005,A61B1/31
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLYMPUS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NISHIMURA, HIROKAZU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64736907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSERTION SUPPORT DEVICE, INSERTION SUPPORT METHOD, AND ENDOSCOPE APPARATUS INCLUDING INSERTION SUPPORT DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An insertion support device includes an image input section to which endoscopic images generated in time series are input, a situation determination section configured to determine a situation of endoscope insertion based on the inputted endoscopic images, and an information output section configured to output information corresponding to at least one operation from information corresponding to operations prepared in association with an endoscope insertion procedure, based on a determination result by the situation determination section.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An insertion support device comprising: an image input section to which a plurality of endoscopic images generated in time series are input; a situation determination section configured to determine a situation of endoscope insertion based on the plurality of inputted endoscopic images; and an information output section configured to output information corresponding to at least one operation from information corresponding to a plurality of operations prepared in association with an endoscope insertion procedure, based on a determination result by the situation determination section.
2. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein the situation determination section is configured to determine a situation of the endoscope insertion based on image change information in the plurality of endoscopic images.
3. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of endoscopic images are endoscopic images generated by colonoscopy, and the situation determination section is configured to determine an insertion situation of the colonoscopy.
4. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein the determination result by the situation determination section includes a determination result as to whether or not an insertion difficulty event has occurred in the endoscope insertion, and the information output section is configured to output information corresponding to at least one operation corresponding to an insertion difficulty event, when the situation determination section determines that the insertion difficulty event has occurred.
5. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein the information output section is configured to output at least one of information related to an operation of an endoscope and information related to a direction in which the endoscope is to be inserted as information corresponding to the operation.
6. The insertion support device according to claim 1, further comprising an insertion state input section to which information related to an insertion state of an endoscope is input, wherein the information output section is configured to determine a situation of the endoscope insertion based on information related to the insertion state in addition to the plurality of endoscopic images.
7. The insertion support device according to claim 6, wherein the information related to the insertion state includes at least one of information related to an insertion shape of an insertion section of the endoscope and information related to an insertion length of the insertion section of the endoscope.
8. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein, the information output section is configured to output information prompting a stiffness changing operation, a straightening operation, an angle operation, or a twisting operation of an insertion section of an endoscope as information corresponding to the operation, when the situation determination section determines that a direction of travel is visible but a field of view does not change.
9. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein, the information output section is configured to output information prompting a pull-back operation, an angle operation, or a twist operation of an insertion section of an endoscope as information corresponding to the operation, when the situation determination section determines that an excessively close state continues.
10. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein, the information output section is configured to output information prompting a stiffness changing operation, a straightening operation, an angle operation, or a twisting operation of an insertion section of an endoscope as information corresponding to the operation, when the situation determination section determines that progression and regression are repeated in a same range.
11. The insertion support device according to claim 1, wherein, the information output section is configured to output information prompting an air supply operation or a deaeration operation of an endoscope as information corresponding to the operation, when the situation determination section determines that a direction of travel of a lumen is not visible and the field of view does not change.
12. An insertion support method comprising: inputting a plurality of time-sequentially generated endoscopic images; determining a situation of endoscope insertion based on the plurality of inputted endoscopic images; and outputting information corresponding to at least one operation from information corresponding to a plurality of operations prepared in association with an endoscope insertion procedure, based on the determining the situation.
13. The insertion support method according to claim 12, wherein the determining the situation includes determining a situation of an endoscope insertion based on image change information in the plurality of endoscopic images.
14. The insertion support method according to claim 12, wherein the plurality of endoscopic images are endoscopic images generated by colonoscopy, and the determining the situation includes determining an insertion situation of the colonoscopy.
15. The insertion support method according to claim 12, wherein a determination result obtained by the determining the situation includes a determination result as to whether or not an insertion difficulty event has occurred in the endoscope insertion, and the outputting information corresponding to the operation includes outputting information corresponding to at least one operation corresponding to an insertion difficulty event when the determining the situation determines that the insertion difficulty event has occurred.
16. The insertion support method according to claim 12, wherein the outputting information corresponding to the operation includes outputting at least one of information related to an operation of an endoscope and information related to a direction in which the endoscope is to be inserted as information corresponding to the operation.
17. The insertion support method according to claim 12, further comprising inputting information related to an insertion state of an endoscope, wherein the outputting information corresponding to the operation includes determining a situation of an endoscope insertion based on information related to the insertion state in addition to the plurality of endoscopic images.
18. The insertion support method according to claim 17, wherein the information related to the insertion state includes at least one of information related to an insertion shape of an insertion section of the endoscope and information related to an insertion length of the insertion section of the endoscope.
19. An endoscope apparatus comprising: the insertion support device according to claim 1; and an endoscope having a bendable section configured to be actively bent, and an insertion section that is connected to a proximal end side of the bendable section and includes a flexible tube section configured to be passively bent.
</claims>
</document>
