<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V1/50,G01V99/00,G06F17/18,G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXXONMOBIL UPSTREAM RESEARCH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENLI, HUSEYIN
MACDONALD, CODY J.
SOM DE CERFF, VICTORIA M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68835362
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Reservoir Modeling Using Deep Generative Networks
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating one or more reservoir models using machine learning is provided. Generating reservoir models is typically a time-intensive idiosyncratic process. However, machine learning may be used to generate one or more reservoir models that characterize the subsurface. The machine learning may use geological data, geological concepts, reservoir stratigraphic configurations, and one or more input geological models in order to generate the one or more reservoir models. As one example, a generative adversarial network (GAN) may be used as the machine learning methodology. The GAN includes two neural networks, including a generative network (which generates candidate reservoir models) and a discriminative network (which evaluates the candidate reservoir models), contest with each other in order to generate the reservoir models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning method for generating one or more geological models of a subsurface, the method comprising: accessing conditioning data related to the subsurface; accessing one or more geological concepts related to a target subsurface; accessing one or more input geological models of the subsurface; training a machine learning model using the conditioning data, the one or more geological concepts, and the one or more input geological models; and generating, based on the machine learning model, one or more geological models with new conditioning data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more input geological models of the subsurface comprise one or more input reservoir models of the subsurface; and wherein the conditioning data comprises geophysical data including field seismic data or simulated seismic data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditioning data comprises one or more of a structural framework, an internal reservoir architecture, or petrophysical property maps.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model maps a fixed set of conditioning data and at least one of varying noise or varying latent code to a plurality of reservoir models.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the machine learning model comprises a generative adversarial network (GAN) including a generator and a discriminator.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the discriminator comprises a discriminator network model; and wherein the discriminator network model comprises a classifier network model.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the generator comprises a generator network model; and wherein the generator network model comprises a U-net model.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the generator comprises a generator network model; and wherein the generator network model comprises an autoencoder or variational autoencoder model including an encoder and a decoder.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more geological concepts are input to the GAN.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more input geological models of the subsurface comprise simulated reservoir models of the subsurface.
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the GAN uses stratigraphic sketches and corresponding seismic data or petrophysical data associated with seismic data as a training set.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising accessing one or more reservoir stratigraphic configurations of a reservoir model; wherein training the machine learning model is further performed based on the one or more reservoir stratigraphic configurations of the reservoir model; and the machine learning model learns to generate the one or more reservoir stratigraphic configurations of the reservoir model by varying values of noise or latent code variables.
13. The method of claim 5, wherein the GAN uses computational stratigraphy to generate stratigraphic models and seismic simulations or petrophysical data associated with seismic data as a training set.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditioning data comprises geophysical data; and wherein the machine learning model generates a plurality of reservoir models based on the conditioning data and the one or more geological concepts; and further comprising quantifying uncertainty of anticipated reservoir performance in the subsurface using the plurality of reservoir models.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein quantifying uncertainty of anticipated reservoir performance comprises estimating one or more statistical distributions of target reservoir quantities including one or more of: net-to-gross; spatial continuity; distribution of dynamic properties affecting fluid flow conditions; or distribution of petrophysical properties.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein machine learning is iteratively performed responsive to obtaining additional field data in different stages of a life cycle of an oil and gas field including exploration, development and production.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein responsive to a first stage of the life cycle in which first stage data is generated, machine learning is performed using the first stage data in order to generate a first plurality of reservoir models; and responsive to a second stage of the life cycle in which second stage data is generated, machine learning is performed using the second stage data in order to generate a second plurality of reservoir models, wherein the first plurality of reservoir models is different from the second plurality of reservoir models.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the one or more geological models to manage hydrocarbons.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein managing hydrocarbons comprises modifying at least one of reservoir development, depletion, or management in the subsurface.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein modifying at least one of reservoir development, depletion, or management comprises modifying a trajectory of a borehole in the subsurface.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing a well to be drilled in the subsurface based upon the one or more geological models.
22. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more geological models are generated for multiple stages of a life cycle of an oil and gas field including exploration, development and production.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the machine learning is iteratively performed for the multiple stages of the life cycle of an oil and gas field including exploration, development and production.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the machine learning comprises a generative adversarial network (GAN) including a generator and a discriminator; and wherein the generator is iteratively updated or continually trained for the multiple stages of the life cycle of an oil and gas field including exploration, development, and production.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein in a first stage, a first set of geological data is used by the machine learning in order to generate a first set of geological models; wherein in a second stage, a second set of geological data is used by the machine learning in order to generate a second set of geological models; wherein the second set of geological data is different from the first set of geological data; and wherein the first set of geological models is different from the second set of geological models.
26. The method of claim 1, wherein the conditioning data comprises synthetically-generated conditioning data; further comprising manipulating or augmenting the synthetically-generated conditioning data with structured noise; and using the manipulated or augmented synthetically-generated conditioning data in training the machine learning model.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein manipulating or augmenting the synthetically-generated conditioning data comprises using a style transfer approach in order to translate the synthetically-generated conditioning data into field data by manipulating a synthetic data style of the synthetically-generated conditioning data or by adding noise to the synthetically-generated conditioning data, the noise having a similar distribution as the field data.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the synthetically-generated conditioning data is generated using one or more simulators; and further comprising selecting the style transfer approach from a plurality of available style transfer approaches, wherein the selection of the style transfer approach is specific to a geological basin, a data acquisition type, or processing workflows in order to account for effects not modeled with the one or more simulators.
</claims>
</document>
