<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUNT, HAMISH C.
HARWOOD, PERRY A.
TOMSETT, RICHARD J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139487
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA CLASSIFICATION BANDWIDTH REDUCTION
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts for classifying data are presented. Data to be classified is processed in accordance with a data decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, wherein each data component is associated with a respective different value or range of data transience. A subset of the data to be classified based on the plurality of data components. The selected subset of the obtained data is provided to a data classification process for classifying the data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for classifying data, the method comprising: obtaining data to be classified; processing the obtained data in accordance with a data decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, wherein each data component is associated with a respective different value or range of data transience; selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components; and providing the selected subset of the obtained data to a data classification process for classifying the obtained data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the obtained data in accordance with a data decomposition algorithm comprises: processing the obtained data in accordance with a wavelet decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, wherein each data component is associated with a respective different value or range of frequency, and wherein selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components comprises: selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the respective value or range of frequency associated with each of the plurality of data components.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components comprises: identifying a first data component of the plurality of data components, the first data component being associated with the highest value(s) of data transience; and selecting the subset of the obtained data based on the identified first data component.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein selecting the subset of the data based on the identified first data component comprises: selecting, as the subset of the obtained data, only data of the obtained data that is associated with the identified first data component.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components comprises: identifying a second data component of the plurality of data components, the second data component being associated with the lowest value(s) of data transience; and selecting the subset of the obtained data based on the identified second data component.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein selecting the subset of the data based on the identified second data component comprises: selecting, as the subset of the obtained data, only data of the obtained data that is not associated with the identified second data component.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining if the data classification process expects data of a predetermined size; and based on the determination result and the size of the selected subset of the obtained data, providing padding data to the data classification process, wherein the padding data comprises data having a predetermined value or pattern.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing the plurality of data components with an entropy encoding algorithm so as to generate a compressed form of the plurality of data components.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the data classification process employs a neural network and wherein the step of providing the selected subset of the obtained data to the data classification process comprises communicating the selected subset of the obtained data to the neural network.
10. A computer program product for classifying data, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processing unit to cause the processing unit to perform a method comprising: obtaining data to be classified; processing the obtained data in accordance with a data decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, wherein each data component is associated with a respective different value or range of data transience; selecting a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components; and providing the selected subset of the obtained data to a data classification process for classifying the obtained data.
11. A data processing system comprising at least one processor and the computer program product of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is adapted to execute the computer program code of said computer program product.
12. A system for classifying data, the system comprising: an input interface adapted to obtain data to be classified; a processing unit adapted to process the obtained data in accordance with a data decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, wherein each data component is associated with a respective different value or range of data transience; a data selection unit adapted to select a subset of the obtained data based on the plurality of data components; and an output interface adapted to provide the selected subset of the obtained data to a data classification process for classifying the obtained data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processing unit is adapted to process the obtained data in accordance with a wavelet decomposition algorithm so as to generate a plurality of data components, each data component being associated with a respective different value or range of frequency, and wherein the data selection unit is adapted to select a subset of the obtained data based on the respective value or range of frequency associated with each of the plurality of data components.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the data selection unit is adapted to identify a first data component of the plurality of data components, the first data component being associated with the highest value(s) of data transience, and to select the subset of the obtained data based on the identified first data component.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the data selection unit is adapted to select, as the subset of the obtained data, only data of the obtained data that is associated with the identified first data component.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the data selection unit is adapted to identify a second data component of the plurality of data components, the second data component being associated with the lowest value(s) of data transience, and to select the subset of the obtained data based on the identified second data component.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the data selection unit is adapted to select, as the subset of the obtained data, only data of the obtained data that is not associated with the identified second data component.
18. The system of claim 12, further comprising a data format determination unit adapted to determine if the data classification process expects data of a predetermined size, and wherein, based on a determination result of the data format determination unit and the size of the selected subset of the obtained data, the output interface is adapted to provide padding data to the data classification process, wherein the padding data comprises data having a predetermined value or pattern.
19. The system of claim 12, further comprising: an entropy encoding unit adapted to process the plurality of data components with an entropy encoding algorithm so as to generate a compressed form of the plurality of data components.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the data classification process employs a neural network and wherein the output interface is adapted to communicate the selected subset of the obtained data to the neural network.
</claims>
</document>
