<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/32,G06N20/00,G08G1/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PONY.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
Luo, George Chu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189387
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SHARING DATA COLLECTED FROM THE STREET SENSORS
</title>

<abstract>
An environmental safety system may comprise a plurality of first sensors each located at a predetermined physical location of a traffic intersection and with a predetermined orientation. The system may have a memory storing executable instructions. The system may have one or more processors in communication with the plurality of first sensors and the memory. The one or more processors may be programmed by the executable instructions. The system may receive first sensor data captured at a time point and by the plurality of first sensors. The system may determine values of one or more parameters of an object of interest within a threshold distance of the traffic intersection using the first sensor data. The system may generate an information object comprising the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and a signature of the information object. The system may transmit, via a communication network, the information object
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An environmental safety system comprising: a plurality of first sensors each located at a predetermined physical location of a traffic intersection and with a predetermined orientation; a memory storing executable instructions; one or more processors in communication with the plurality of first sensors and the memory, the one or more processors programmed by the executable instructions to perform: receiving first sensor data captured at a time point and by the plurality of first sensors; determining values of one or more parameters of an object of interest within a threshold distance of the traffic intersection using the first sensor data; generating an information object comprising the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and a signature of the information object; and transmitting, via a communication network, the information object.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said transmitting is responsive to receiving, via the communication network, a request for safety information related to the traffic intersection.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the request for the safety information is received after an occurrence of a traffic accident at the traffic intersection.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the request for the safety information is received from a vehicle approaching the traffic intersection
5. The system of claim 4, wherein an autonomous vehicle sensor data processing system of the vehicle is configured to perform: receiving second sensor data captured by a plurality of second sensors mounted on the vehicle; and determining a driving action of the vehicle using the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and the second sensor data.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are further programmed by the executable instructions to perform: updating a usage record of an account associated with the vehicle.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein the receiving comprises receiving first sensor data captured at a plurality of time points and by the plurality of first sensors, and wherein said determining comprises determining values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest at each of the plurality of time points using the first sensor data.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the transmitting comprises transmitting, via the communication network, the information object comprising the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest for the latest time point that have been determined.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the receiving comprises receiving a plurality of requests for safety information related to the traffic intersection, wherein each of the plurality of requests comprises a request time point, and wherein said transmitting comprises transmitting, via the communication network, the information object comprising a time point that matches or is within a threshold time period of, the requested time point.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the transmitting comprises: broadcasting, via the communication network, the information object.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one sensor of the plurality of first sensors is mounted above and close to the center of the traffic intersection, wherein sensors of the plurality of first sensors with different predetermined orientations are mounted above and close to the center of the traffic intersection, wherein the sensors with different predetermined orientations mounted above and close to the center of the traffic intersection is within a physical housing, and/or wherein sensors of the plurality of first sensors are located at segments of the traffic intersection, and wherein the sensors at different segments of the traffic intersection have different predetermined orientations.
12. The system of claim 5, wherein the object of interest is not within the line of sight of a sensor of the plurality of second sensors mounted on the vehicle, wherein the second sensor data comprises no sensor data related to the object of interest, and/or wherein a first sensor of the plurality of first sensors and a second sensor of the second plurality of sensors have different fields of view.
13. The system of claim 5, wherein the driving action determined is different from a driving action of the vehicle determined using the second sensor data, not the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest determined, wherein determining the driving action requires fewer computational operations than determining a driving action of the vehicle using the second sensor data, not the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest determined, and/or wherein the processor is capable of performing more computational operations within a period of time than the autonomous vehicle sensor data processing system.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters of the object of interest comprise an identity of the object of interest, a size of the object of interest, a position of the object of interest, a path of the object of interest, and a speed of the object of interest.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest comprise the position of the object of interest with respect to the traffic intersection, with respect to an absolute reference frame, or with respect to the vehicle.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest comprises determining the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest using a first machine learning model, and/or wherein determining the driving action comprises determining the driving action using a second machine learning model.
17. A method for street safety comprising: under control of a processor: receiving first sensor data captured at a time point and by a plurality of first sensors each located at a predetermined physical location of a traffic intersection and with a predetermined orientation; determining values of one or more parameters of an object of interest within a threshold distance of the traffic intersection using the first sensor data; generating an information object comprising the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and a signature of the information object; and transmitting, via a communication network, the information object.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the transmitting is responsive to receiving, via the communication network, a request for safety information related to the traffic intersection.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein an autonomous vehicle sensor data processing system of the vehicle is configured to perform: receiving second sensor data captured by a plurality of second sensors mounted on the vehicle; and determining a driving action of the vehicle using the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and the second sensor data.
20. A method of determining a driving action of a vehicle comprising: under control of a processor: receiving first sensor data captured by a plurality of first sensors each located at a predetermined physical location of a traffic intersection and with a predetermined orientation; determining values of one or more parameters of an object of interest within a threshold distance of the traffic interaction using the first sensor data; generating an information object comprising the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and a signature of the information object; and transmitting, via communication network, the information object to a vehicle approaching the traffic intersection, wherein an autonomous vehicle sensor data processing system of the vehicle is configured to perform: verifying the integrity of the information object using the signature of the information object; receiving second sensor data captured by a plurality of second sensors mounted on the vehicle; and determining a driving action of the vehicle using the values of the one or more parameters of the object of interest, the time point, and the second sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
