<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/2452,G06F40/146,G06F40/211,G06F40/253,G06F40/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BITDEFENDER IPR MANAGEMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRAD, FLORIN
BURCEANU, ELENA
REBEDEA, TRAIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67551330
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems And Methods For Translating Natural Language Sentences Into Database Queries
</title>

<abstract>
Described systems and methods allow an automatic translation from a natural language (e.g., English) into an artificial language such as a structured query language (SQL). In some embodiments, a translator module includes an encoder component and a decoder component, both components comprising recurrent neural networks. Training the translator module comprises two stages. A first stage trains the translator module to produce artificial language (AL) output when presented with an AL input. For instance, the translator is first trained to reproduce an AL input. A second stage of training comprises training the translator to produce AL output when presented with a natural language (NL) input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising employing at least one hardware processor of the computer system to train an automatic translator to translate from a natural language (NL) to an artificial language (AL), wherein training the automatic translator comprises: performing a first stage of training; in response to performing the first stage of training, determining whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied; and in response, when the first stage training termination condition is satisfied, performing a second stage of training; wherein performing the first stage of training comprises: coupling an AL encoder neural network (NN) to a decoder NN, wherein the AL encoder NN is configured to receive an AL input formulated in the artificial language and transmit a result of processing the AL input to the decoder NN, and wherein the decoder NN is configured to produce an AL output according to the result of processing the AL input, and training the decoder NN to improve a similarity between the AL input and the AL output; and wherein performing the second stage of training comprises: coupling a trained decoder NN generated by the first stage of training to a NL encoder NN, the NL encoder NN configured to receive an NL input formulated in the natural language and to transmit a result of processing the NL input to the trained decoder NN, employing the trained decoder NN to determine another AL output according to the result of processing the NL input, and training the NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the other AL output and a target AL output comprising a translation of the NL input into the artificial language.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the artificial language comprises an item selected from a group consisting of a database query language, a programming language, and a markup language.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the second stage of training further comprises: employing a trained AL encoder NN resulted from the first stage of training to receive the target AL output and in response, to output a result of processing the target AL output; and wherein training the NL encoder NN comprises adjusting a set of parameters of the NL encoder NN according to a similarity between the result of processing the NL input and the result of processing the target AL output.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to performing the second stage of training, employing at least one hardware processor of the computer system to: couple the trained decoder NN resulted from the first stage of training to another NL encoder NN, the other NL encoder NN configured to receive another NL input and to transmit a result of processing the other NL input to the trained decoder NN, wherein the other NL input is formulated in another natural language distinct from the natural language; employing the trained decoder NN to determine a third AL output according to the result of processing the other NL input, and training the other NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the third AL output and a translation of the other NL input into the artificial language.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the NL encoder comprises a recurrent neural network.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the AL decoder comprises a recurrent neural network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied comprises determining whether the AL output is grammatically correct.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein training the decoder NN comprises determining a degree of similarity between the AL output and a synonym of the AL input.
9. A computer system comprising at least one hardware processor configured to train an automatic translator to translate from a natural language (NL) to an artificial language (AL), wherein training the automatic translator comprises: perform a first stage of training; in response to performing the first stage of training, determine whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied; and in response, when the first stage training termination condition is satisfied, perform a second stage of training; wherein performing the first stage of training comprises: coupling an AL encoder neural network (NN) to a decoder NN, wherein the AL encoder NN is configured to receive an AL input formulated in the artificial language and transmit a result of processing the AL input to the decoder NN, and wherein the decoder NN is configured to produce an AL output according to the result of processing the AL input, and training the decoder NN to improve a similarity between the AL input and the AL output; and wherein performing the second stage of training comprises: coupling a trained decoder NN generated by the first stage of training to a NL encoder NN, the NL encoder NN configured to receive an NL input formulated in the natural language and to transmit a result of processing the NL input to the trained decoder NN, employing the trained decoder NN to determine another AL output according to the result of processing the NL input, and training the NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the other AL output and a target AL output comprising a translation of the NL input into the artificial language.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the artificial language comprises an item selected from a group consisting of a database query language, a programming language, and a markup language.
11. The computer system of claim 9, wherein performing the second stage of training further comprises: employing a trained AL encoder NN resulted from the first stage of training to receive the target AL output and in response, to output a result of processing the target AL output; and wherein training the NL encoder NN comprises adjusting a set of parameters of the NL encoding NN according to a similarity between the result of processing the NL input and the result of processing the target AL output.
12. The computer system of claim 9, further configured, in response to performing the second stage of training, to: couple the trained decoder NN resulted from the first stage of training to another NL encoder NN, the other NL encoder NN configured to receive another NL input and to transmit a result of processing the other NL input to the trained decoder NN, wherein the other NL input is formulated in another natural language distinct from the natural language; employ the trained decoder NN to determine a third AL output according to the result of processing the other NL input, and train the other NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the third AL output and a translation of the other NL input into the artificial language.
13. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the NL encoder comprises a recurrent neural network.
14. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the AL decoder comprises a recurrent neural network.
15. The computer system of claim 9, wherein determining whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied comprises determining whether the AL output is grammatically correct.
16. The computer system of claim 9, wherein training the decoder NN comprises determining a degree of similarity between the AL output and a synonym of the AL input.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a first hardware processor of a first computer system, cause the first computer system to form a trained automatic translator configured to translate from a natural language (NL) to an artificial language (AL), the automatic translator comprising a NL encoder neural network (NN) and a decoder NN connected to the NL encoder NN, wherein training the automatic translator comprises employing a second hardware processor of a second computer system to: perform a first stage of training; in response to performing the first stage of training, determine whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied; and in response, when the first stage training termination condition is satisfied, perform a second stage of training; wherein performing the first stage of training comprises: coupling an artificial language (AL) encoder NN to the decoder NN, wherein the AL encoder NN is configured to receive an AL input formulated in an artificial language and transmit a result of processing the AL input to the decoder NN, and wherein the decoder NN is configured to produce an AL output according to the result of processing the AL input, and training the decoder NN to improve a similarity between the AL input and the AL output; and wherein performing the second stage of training comprises: coupling a trained decoder NN generated by the first stage of training to the NL encoder NN, the NL encoder NN configured to receive an NL input formulated in the natural language and to transmit a result of processing the NL input to the trained decoder NN, employing the trained decoder NN to determine another AL output according to the result of processing the NL input, and training the NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the other AL output and a target AL output comprising a translation of the NL input into the artificial language.
18. A computer system comprising a first hardware processor configured to execute a trained automatic translator configured to translate from a natural language (NL) to an artificial language (AL), the automatic translator comprising a NL encoder neural network (NN) and a decoder NN connected to the NL encoder NN, wherein training the automatic translator comprises employing a second hardware processor of a second computer system to: perform a first stage of training; in response to performing the first stage of training, determine whether a first stage training termination condition is satisfied; and in response, when the first stage training termination condition is satisfied, perform a second stage of training; wherein performing the first stage of training comprises: coupling an artificial language (AL) encoder NN to the decoder NN, wherein the AL encoder NN is configured to receive an AL input formulated in an artificial language and transmit a result of processing the AL input to the decoder NN, and wherein the decoder NN is configured to produce an AL output according to the result of processing the AL input, and training the decoder NN to improve a similarity between the AL input and the AL output; and wherein performing the second stage of training comprises: coupling a trained decoder NN generated by the first stage of training to the NL encoder NN, the NL encoder NN configured to receive an NL input formulated in the natural language and to transmit a result of processing the NL input to the trained decoder NN, employing the trained decoder NN to determine another AL output according to the result of processing the NL input, and training the NL encoder NN to improve a similarity between the other AL output and a target AL output comprising a translation of the NL input into the artificial language.
</claims>
</document>
