<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS N.V.
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEN BRINKER, ALBERTUS, CORNELIS
KERSTEN, GERRIT MARIA
BULUT, MURTAZA
ASSELMAN, MICHEL JOZEF AGNES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60673456
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETECTING MOTION SICKNESS
</title>

<abstract>
In order to help reduce the effects of motion sickness, there is provided a method for reducing motion sickness in a subject which comprises acquiring a sequence of video images, extracting measurements of a heart-rate of the subject over a first period of time from the sequence of video images using photoplethysmography (PPG), calculating at least one trend in the measurements, determining a presence of motion sickness when the at least one trend is positive over a first time window, the first time window being included in the first period of time, and generating an event arranged to generate a corrective action. It is often possible to detect the onset of motion sickness before the subject actually feels the symptoms. Indeed, by the time the symptoms appear, corrective action is much less effective. Therefore, by detecting the onset early and alerting the subject so that they can react, it is possible to avoid the attack of motion sickness or, at least, reduce significantly its effects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for reducing motion sickness in a subject comprising detecting an onset of the motion sickness, wherein the detecting of the onset of the motion sickness comprises: receiving a sequence of video images; extracting measurements of a heart-rate of the subject over a plurality of time windows for a first period of time from the sequence of video images using photoplethysmography (PPG); calculating at least one trend in the measurements; determining a presence of motion sickness when the at least one trend is positive over one of the plurality of time windows and there is no negative trend observed over the first period of time, and generating an event arranged to generate a corrective action.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein successive positive determinations over the plurality of time windows are interpreted as indicating an increase in motion sickness severity.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the corrective action comprises providing to the subject suggestions including at least one of looking out of a window, getting fresh air, adapting driving style and performing breathing exercises.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising providing guidance to the subject for the performing of the breathing exercises.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the corrective action comprises when used in conjunction with a virtual reality system, applying changes to at least one of the motion of objects displayed by the virtual reality systems and the display frame rate of the virtual reality system.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: measurement of pallor of an area of facial skin of the subject by analysis the sequence of video images, the analysis comprising measuring changes in the intensity of a plurality of signals, each at different wavelengths, over a second period of time; determining a change over time of a ratio of the intensities, a certain change over time being indicative of an increase in pallor, wherein the determining of the onset includes determining an increase of pallor of the said area.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising measuring changes in a respiration rate using analysis of the video sequence and wherein the determining of the onset includes determining the presence of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA) wherein determining the presence of RSA comprises detecting a synchronization between the R-R interval and motion caused by respiration.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising measuring a pattern of acceleration of the head of the subject using analysis of the video sequence, wherein the determining of the onset includes determining the presence of a repetitive acceleration with a frequency between 0.1 and 0.3 Hz.
9. The method of claim 8 further comprising the measurement of a pattern of motion of the subject using motion sensors determining an onset of motion sickness according to a presence of a correlation in time between moments where RSA is present and the pattern of motion.
10. A system for reducing motion sickness in a subject in motion comprising a processing unit configured to detect an onset of the motion sickness, wherein the processing unit comprises an input to receive a sequence of video images of at least one portion of a skin area of a subject; a physiological measurement unit configured to extract measurements of a heart-rate of the subject over a plurality of time windows for a first period of time using from the sequence of video images using photoplethysmography (PPG); a calculation unit configured to calculate at least one trend in the measurements; a decision unit configured to determine a presence of motion sickness when the at least one trend is positive over at least one of the plurality of time windows and there is no negative trend observed over the first period of time, and to generate a trigger event arranged to generate corrective action.
11. The system of claim 10 further comprising a coaching unit configured to provide the subject with suggestions for preventive action, the suggestions comprising at least one of looking out of a window, getting fresh air and performing breathing exercises.
12. The system of claim 10 wherein the physiological measurement unit is configured to measure the pallor of an area of facial skin of the subject by measuring changes in intensities of a plurality of signals, each signal being at a different wavelength, over a second period of time, and to determine a change over time of a ratio of the intensities, the change over time of the ratio indicating an increase in pallor, wherein the determining of the onset includes determining an increase of pallor of the said area.
13. The system of claim 10 wherein the physiological measurement unit is further configured to measure changes in a respiration rate and wherein the determining of the onset includes determining the presence of respiratory sinus arrhythmia (RSA).
14. The system of claim 10 wherein the physiological measurement unit is further configured to measure a pattern of acceleration of the head of the subject using analysis of the video sequence, wherein the determining of the onset includes determining the presence of a repetitive acceleration with a frequency between 0.1 and 0.3 Hz.
15. A computer software product which, when run a computer processing system, causes the computer processing system to execute the method of claim 1.
16. The system of claim 10 wherein successive positive determinations over the plurality of time windows are interpreted as indicating an increase in motion sickness severity.
17. The system of claim 11 further comprising providing guidance to the subject for the performing of the breathing exercises.
18. The system of claim 10 wherein the corrective action comprises when used in conjunction with a virtual reality system, applying changes to at least one of the motion of objects displayed by the virtual reality systems and the display frame rate of the virtual reality system.
19. The system of claim 14 wherein the physiological measurement unit if further configured to: measure a pattern of motion of the subject using motion sensors determine an onset of motion sickness according to a presence of a correlation in time between moments where RSA is present and the pattern of motion.
</claims>
</document>
