<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DASSAULT SYSTEMES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEHR, ELOI
SANCHEZ BERMUDEZ, FERNANDO MANUEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65200559
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING A NEURAL NETWORK FOR INFERENCE OF EDITABLE FEATURE TREES
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure notably relates to a computer-implemented method for learning a neural network configured for inference, from a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, of an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape. The editable feature tree includes a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes. The method includes obtaining a dataset including discrete geometrical representations each of a respective 3D shape, and obtaining a candidate set of leaf geometrical shapes. The method also includes learning the neural network based on the dataset and on the candidate set. The candidate set includes at least one continuous subset of leaf geometrical shapes. The method forms an improved solution for digitization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for learning a neural network configured for inference, from a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, of an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape, the editable feature tree comprising a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes, the method comprising: obtaining a dataset including discrete geometrical representations each of a respective 3D shape; obtaining a candidate set of leaf geometrical shapes, the candidate set comprising at least one continuous subset of leaf geometrical shapes; and learning the neural network based on the dataset and on the candidate set.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the candidate set includes a set product between: a discrete set of primitive shape types, and for each primitive shape type, a respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains each of a respective continuous parameter, each parameter domain having respective parameters values of the respective continuous parameter, each primitive shape type forming, with a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains, a respective element of the candidate set.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein, for each of one or more primitive shape types, the one or more respective continuous parameters include one or more dimensional parameters and/or one or more positioning parameters.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the discrete set of primitive shape types includes a cuboid type, a sphere type, one or more cylinder types, and/or one or more prism types.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network includes recurrent neural network cells, each RNN cell outputting at a respective time step, respective first data for inference of a respective primitive shape type and respective second data for inference of a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the respective first data include a respective discrete distribution of probabilities each attributed to a respective one of the discrete set of primitive shape types, and/or the respective second data comprise a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the dataset further includes, for each of one or more discrete geometrical representations, a respective editable feature tree comprising a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes and representing the 3D shape respective to the discrete geometrical representation, each geometrical shape being formed by a respective primitive shape type with a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains, the learning of the neural network comprising a supervised training which includes minimizing a loss L1 which penalizes, for the time step respective to each leaf geometrical shape of each discrete geometrical representation: a lowness of the probability of the respective first data attributed to the respective primitive shape type of the leaf geometrical shape, and/or a disparity between the one or more respective parameter values of the leaf geometrical shape and the one or more respective parameter values of the respective second data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the loss L1 penalizes: the lowness with a term of the type and/or the disparity with a term of the type where: n designates said discrete geometrical representation, t designates said time step, designates said respective primitive shape type, designates the probability of the respective first data attributed to , designates said one or more respective parameter values of said leaf geometrical shape, designates said one or more respective parameter values of the respective second data, d(⋅, ⋅) is a distance function, and incr[⋅] is an increasing and/or positive function.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the respective first data include a respective discrete distribution of probabilities each attributed to a respective one of the discrete set of primitive shape types, the learning of the neural network including an unsupervised training which includes minimizing a loss L2, the minimizing including exploring candidate respective discrete distributions of probabilities, the loss L2 penalizing, for a discrete geometrical representation and for a candidate respective discrete distribution of probabilities, a disparity with a discrete geometrical representation derived from a respective editable feature tree, the respective editable feature tree being inferable based on the explored candidate respective discrete distribution of probabilities, the minimizing including a backpropagation of a gradient of the loss L2 relative at least to a variable representing the candidate respective discrete distributions of the respective first data, the gradient being obtained with a reinforcement algorithm, the gradient being optionally of the type where: n designates said discrete geometrical representation, Tn designates a depth of said respective editable feature tree, t designates a respective time step, y designates a primitive shape type, py designates said variable representing the candidate respective discrete distributions of the respective first data at t, atn designates a primitive shape type of said respective editable feature tree inferable at t, and β is a baseline value.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein each RNN cell takes as input a result of a current predicted sequence, the learning of the neural network including a supervised training which includes minimizing a loss that involves inferred parameter values.
11. A computer-implemented method of applying a data structure representing a neural network learnable according to a computer-implemented process for learning a neural network configured for inference, from a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, of an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape, the editable feature tree comprising a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes, the method comprising: obtaining a dataset including discrete geometrical representations each of a respective 3D shape; obtaining a candidate set of leaf geometrical shapes, the candidate set comprising at least one continuous subset of leaf geometrical shapes; learning the neural network based on the dataset and on the candidate set; obtaining a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape; applying the neural network to the discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape; and inferring an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape based on a result of the applying, and optionally refining the inferred editable feature tree.
12. A device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory data storage medium having recorded thereon: a data structure representing a neural network learnable according to a computer-implemented process for learning a neural network configured for inference, from a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, of an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape, the editable feature tree comprising a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes, a computer program comprising instruction for learning the neural network configured for inference, from the discrete geometrical representation of the 3D shape, of the editable feature tree representing the 3D shape, the editable feature tree comprising the tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes, wherein the computer program when executed by the processor causes the processor to be configured to obtain a dataset including discrete geometrical representations each of a respective 3D shape, obtain a candidate set of leaf geometrical shapes, the candidate set comprising at least one continuous subset of leaf geometrical shapes, and learn the neural network based on the dataset and on the candidate set; and/or wherein the computer program when executed by the processor causes the processor to be configured to obtain a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, apply the neural network to the discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, and infer an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape based on a result of the applying, and optionally refining the inferred editable feature tree.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the candidate set includes a set product between: a discrete set of primitive shape types, and for each primitive shape type, a respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains each of a respective continuous parameter, each parameter domain having respective parameters values of the respective continuous parameter, each primitive shape type forming, with a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains, a respective element of the candidate set.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein, for each of one or more primitive shape types, the one or more respective continuous parameters include one or more dimensional parameters and/or one or more positioning parameters.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the discrete set of primitive shape types include a cuboid type, a sphere type, one or more cylinder types, and/or one or more prism types.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the neural network includes recurrent neural network cells, each RNN cell outputting at a respective time step, respective first data for inference of a respective primitive shape type and respective second data for inference of a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the respective first data include a respective discrete distribution of probabilities each attributed to a respective one of the discrete set of primitive shape types, and/or the respective second data comprise a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the dataset further includes, for each of one or more discrete geometrical representations, a respective editable feature tree including a tree arrangement of geometrical operations applied to leaf geometrical shapes and representing the 3D shape respective to the discrete geometrical representation, each geometrical shape being formed by a respective primitive shape type with a respective parameter value for each of the respective discrete set of one or more parameter domains, the learning of the neural network comprising a supervised training which includes minimizing a loss L1 which penalizes, for the time step respective to each leaf geometrical shape of each discrete geometrical representation: a lowness of the probability of the respective first data attributed to the respective primitive shape type of the leaf geometrical shape, and/or a disparity between the one or more respective parameter values of the leaf geometrical shape and the one or more respective parameter values of the respective second data.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the loss L1 penalizes: the lowness with a term of the type and/or the disparity with a term of the type where: n designates said discrete geometrical representation, t designates said time step, designates said respective primitive shape type, designates the probability of the respective first data attributed to , designates said one or more respective parameter values of said leaf geometrical shape, designates said one or more respective parameter values of the respective second data, d(⋅, ⋅) is a distance function, and incr[⋅] is an increasing and/or positive function.
20. The device of claim 12, wherein the computer program when executed by the processor causes the processor to be configured to obtain a dataset including discrete geometrical representations each of a respective 3D shape, obtain a candidate set of leaf geometrical shapes, the candidate set comprising at least one continuous subset of leaf geometrical shapes, learn the neural network based on the dataset and on the candidate set, obtain a discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, apply the neural network to the discrete geometrical representation of a 3D shape, and infer an editable feature tree representing the 3D shape based on a result of the applying, and optionally refining the inferred editable feature tree.
</claims>
</document>
