<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARYANI, YAAKOV
ISRAEL, MOSHE
LIVNY, YOTAM
PATRICH, DOTAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68582503
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD TO INFER INVESTIGATION STEPS FOR SECURITY ALERTS USING CROWD SOURCING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are provided to dynamically generate response actions that may be used to investigate and respond to a security alert. Different prediction models are initially trained using a corpus of training data. This training data is obtained by identifying previous security alerts and then grouping together alert clusters. An analysis is performed to identify which steps were used to respond to the alerts in each group. These steps are fed into a prediction model to train the model. After multiple models are trained and after a new security alert is received, one model is selected to operate on the new alert, where the model is selected because it is identified as being most compatible with the new alert. When the selected model is applied to the new alert, the model generates a set of recommended steps that may be followed to investigate and/or respond to the new alert.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computer system to: generate training data for use in training a plurality of prediction models by performing the following: identify previous security alerts; group together different clusters of the previous security alerts; for each of at least some previous security alerts in each of the different clusters, identify a sequence of steps that were followed in responding to each of said at least some previous security alerts; and for each of the different clusters, train a corresponding prediction model using the identified sequences of steps, wherein the plurality of prediction models is trained by training each of the different clusters' corresponding prediction model; after the plurality of prediction models is trained and after identifying one or more attributes of a new security alert, select one prediction model from the plurality of prediction models to be applied to the new security alert, wherein selecting the one prediction model is performed by determining that, out of the plurality of prediction models, the one prediction model is optimal for being applied to the new security alert based on the new security alert's one or more attributes; and apply the one prediction model to the new security alert to generate a set of recommended one or more steps to follow for responding to the new security alert.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein grouping together the different clusters of the previous security alerts is performed by: identifying one or more attributes for each alert included in the previous security alerts; and generating the different clusters by grouping together common alerts that are identified as having commonalities between their corresponding one or more attributes.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the one or more attributes for each alert included in the previous security alerts is obtained by identifying one or more of the following for each alert: an alert type, an alert date, or alert metadata.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the one or more attributes for each alert included in the previous security alerts is additionally obtained by identifying one or more of the following for each alert: a related process executing when each alert was raised, a communicating IP address of a corresponding computer system that raised each alert, a communicating port, or a relevant user.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the new security alert was not included in the previous security alerts such that the new security alert was not used to train any prediction model in the plurality of prediction models.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the previous security alerts include malware security alerts, virus security alerts, and unauthorized access security alerts.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the previous security alerts are identified by analyzing one or more audit reports that include the previous security alerts, or alternatively, by analyzing insight data associated with the previous security alerts.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the different clusters of the previous security alerts are grouped together by a machine learning algorithm.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the machine learning algorithm uses either a k-means clustering algorithm or a density-based spatial clustering (DB-SCAN) algorithm.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein execution of the computer-executable instructions further causes the computer system to: receive user feedback regarding the set of recommended one or more steps to follow for responding to the new security alert; and update at least the one prediction model based on the received user feedback.
11. A method for providing a dynamically generated sequence of one or more recommended response actions that are generated in response to feeding a security alert into a prediction model that generates the dynamically generated sequence, the method being performed by a computer system and comprising: generating training data for use in training a plurality of prediction models by performing the following: identifying previous security alerts; grouping together different clusters of the previous security alerts; for each of at least some previous security alerts in each of the different clusters, identifying a sequence of steps that were followed in responding to each of said at least some previous security alerts; and for each of the different clusters, training a corresponding prediction model using the identified sequences of steps, wherein the plurality of prediction models is trained by training each of the different clusters' corresponding prediction model; after the plurality of prediction models is trained and after identifying one or more attributes of a new security alert, selecting one prediction model from the plurality of prediction models to be applied to the new security alert, wherein selecting the one prediction model is performed by determining that, out of the plurality of prediction models, the one prediction model is optimal for being applied to the new security alert based on the new security alert's one or more attributes; and applying the one prediction model to the new security alert to generate a set of recommended one or more steps to follow for responding to the new security alert.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the computer system includes: an alerts feature engine for identifying one or more attributes for each of the previous security alerts; an alerts clustering engine for grouping together the different clusters of the previous security alerts; and an investigation sequence engine for identifying the sequence of steps that were followed in responding to each of said at least some previous security alerts.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the previous security alerts are visualized in an n-dimensional space plot.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein steps included the sequences of steps followed in responding to the previous security alerts includes one or more of the following: a first execution step in which an alerting computer that raised a particular security alert is identified, a second execution step in which a query is executed on the alerting computer system to identify users of the alerting computer system, a first analysis step in which a result of the query is analyzed, and a third execution step in which a particular user of the alerting computer system is identified.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein at least some of the previous security alerts are received from an external source as opposed to being generated by the computer system.
16. One or more hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by one or more processors of a computer system to cause the computer system to: generate training data for use in training a plurality of prediction models by performing the following: identify previous security alerts; group together different clusters of the previous security alerts; for each of at least some previous security alerts in each of the different clusters, identify a sequence of steps that were followed in responding to each of said at least some previous security alerts; and for each of the different clusters, train a corresponding prediction model using the identified sequences of steps, wherein the plurality of prediction models is trained by training each of the different clusters' corresponding prediction model; after the plurality of prediction models is trained and after identifying one or more attributes of a new security alert, select one prediction model from the plurality of prediction models to be applied to the new security alert, wherein selecting the one prediction model is performed by determining that, out of the plurality of prediction models, the one prediction model is optimal for being applied to the new security alert based on the new security alert's one or more attributes; and apply the one prediction model to the new security alert to generate a set of recommended one or more steps to follow for responding to the new security alert
17. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein at least some of the previous security alerts are provided via crowd sourcing.
18. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 17, wherein personal identifying information included within the at least some of the previous security alerts provided via crowd sourcing is scrubbed.
19. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein the prediction model generates the set of recommended one or more steps by: comparing the new security alert's one or more attributes to attributes of other previous security alerts to identify a set of previous security alerts that are most closely related to the new security alert; and generate the set of recommended one or more steps by identifying and analyzing sequence steps used in responding to the set of previous security alerts that are most closely related to the new security alert.
20. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 16, wherein the sequence of steps that were followed in responding to each of said at least some previous security alerts are ranked using user feedback and are ranked based on effectiveness for resolving each of said at least some previous security alerts.
</claims>
</document>
