<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B13/00,H01L27/146,H04N5/357,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOZUKA, NORIAKI
MIYATANI, YOSHITAKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66173321
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGING APPARATUS AND METHOD, AND IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
The present technology relates to an imaging apparatus and method, and an image processing apparatus and method that make it possible to expand a range of a subject that can be imaged. A subject is imaged by an imaging element including a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from the subject entering without passing through either an imaging lens or a pinhole and entering through an optical system that is not an imaging lens and has a negative power, and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light. The present disclosure can be applied to, for example, an imaging apparatus, an image processing apparatus, an information processing apparatus, an electronic device, a computer, a program, a storage medium, a system, and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging apparatus comprising: an optical system that is not an imaging lens and has a negative power; and an imaging element including a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from a subject entering without passing through either an imaging lens or a pinhole and entering through the optical system, and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light.
2. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the optical system includes a single concave lens.
3. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the optical system includes a plurality of lenses having a negative power as a whole.
4. The imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein some lenses among the plurality of lenses have a positive power.
5. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a relative position of the optical system with respect to the imaging element is variable.
6. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the optical system is detachable from the imaging apparatus.
7. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixel output units has a configuration in which an incident angle directivity of the output pixel value indicating a directivity with respect to an incident angle of incident light from a subject is settable independently for each of the pixel output units.
8. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixel output units has a configuration in which an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to an incident angle of incident light from a subject is settable independently for each of the pixel output units.
9. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixel output units has a configuration in which an incident angle directivity of the output pixel value indicating a directivity with respect to an incident angle of incident light from a subject is settable independently for each of the pixel output units by making photo diodes (PDs) that contribute to output different from each other.
10. An imaging method comprising imaging a subject by an imaging element including a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from the subject entering without passing through either an imaging lens or a pinhole and entering through an optical system that is not an imaging lens and has a negative power, and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light.
11. An image processing apparatus comprising a coefficient setting unit that sets, depending on at least one of a type and position of an optical system that is not an imaging lens and has a negative power, or a distance to a subject, coefficients used when a restored image is restored from output pixel values of a plurality of pixel output units, of an imaging element, the imaging element including the plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light from the subject entering without passing through either an imaging lens or a pinhole and entering through the optical system, and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light.
12. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an acceptance unit that accepts designation of the type and position of the optical system, wherein the coefficient setting unit sets the coefficients depending on the type and position of the optical system accepted by the acceptance unit.
13. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a detection unit that detects the type and position of the optical system, wherein the coefficient setting unit sets the coefficients depending on the type and position of the optical system detected by the detection unit.
14. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a subject distance acceptance unit that accepts an input of the distance to the subject, wherein the coefficient setting unit sets the coefficients depending on the distance to the subject accepted by the subject distance acceptance unit.
15. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a subject distance detection unit that detects the distance to the subject, wherein the coefficient setting unit sets the coefficients depending on the distance to the subject detected by the subject distance detection unit.
16. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising a restoration unit that restores the restored image by using the output pixel values of the plurality of pixel output units of the imaging element and the coefficients set by the coefficient setting unit.
17. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an associating unit that associates the coefficients set by the coefficient setting unit as metadata with data including the output pixel values of the plurality of pixel output units of the imaging element.
18. The image processing apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising an optical system setting unit that sets the type and position of the optical system.
19. The image processing apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the optical system setting unit sets the type and position of the optical system depending on the distance to the subject.
20. An image processing method comprising setting, depending on at least one of a type and position of an optical system that is not an imaging lens and has a negative power, or a distance to the subject, coefficients used when a restored image is restored from output pixel values of a plurality of pixel output units, of an imaging element, the imaging element including the plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light entering without passing through either an imaging lens or a pinhole and entering through the optical system, and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light.
</claims>
</document>
