<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORCAM TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHASHUA, AMNON
WEXLER, YONATAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68766794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CAMERA AND MICROPHONE-BASED DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A system may include a wearable camera configured to capture images and a microphone configured to capture sounds, and a processor programmed to receive the images captured by the camera and audio signals representative of sounds received by the microphone. The processor may also be programmed to determine a look direction for a user based upon detection of a representation of a body part of the user in at least one of the captured images and a pointing direction of the body part relative to an optical axis associated with the wearable camera. The processor may further be programmed to cause selective conditioning of an audio signal received by the microphone from a region associated with the look direction of the user and cause transmission of the conditioned audio signal to an interface device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for selectively amplifying sounds emanating from a detected look direction of a user of the hearing aid system, the hearing aid system comprising: a wearable camera configured to capture a plurality of images from an environment of the user; at least one microphone configured to capture sounds from the environment of the user; and at least one processor programmed to: receive the plurality of images captured by the camera; receive audio signals representative of sounds received by the at least one microphone from the environment of the user; determine a look direction for the user based on analysis of at least one of the plurality of images, wherein the look direction is determined based, at least in part, upon detection of a representation of a body part of the user in at least one of the plurality of images and determining a pointing direction of the body part relative to an optical axis associated with the camera; cause selective conditioning of at least one audio signal received by the at least one microphone from a region associated with the look direction of the user; and cause transmission of the at least one conditioned audio signal to an interface device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioning includes amplification.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioning includes a change in tone.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioning includes a change in a rate of speech associated with the at least one audio signal.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the wearable camera and the at least one microphone are included in a common housing.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is included in the common housing.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one processor is included in a second housing separate from the common housing.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one processor is configured to receive the captured images via a wireless link between a transmitter in the common housing and receiver in the second housing.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one microphone includes a directional microphone.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one microphone includes a microphone array.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to suppress one or more sounds determined to originate from a location other than the determined look direction for the user.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the body part of the user comprises a chin of the user.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioning includes amplification, and the amplification includes amplifying the at least one audio signal relative to other audio signals received by the at least one microphone from directions outside the region associated with the look direction of the user.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the amplification is accomplished through operation of a directional microphone that is configured to focus on audio sounds emanating from a region of interest.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is configured to vary one or more parameters associated with the at least one microphone to cause the at least one microphone to focus on audio sounds emanating from the region associated with the look direction of the user.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the conditioning includes amplification, and the amplification includes attenuating one or more audio signals received by the at least one microphone from directions outside the region associated with the look direction of the user.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the region associated with the look direction has a 20-degree angular width about the look direction.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the region associated with the look direction has a 45-degree angular width about the look direction.
19. 19-21. (canceled)
22. A method for selectively amplifying sounds emanating from a detected look direction of a user of a device, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of images captured by a wearable camera from an environment of a user; receiving audio signals representative of sounds captured by at least one microphone from the environment of the user; determining a look direction for the user based on analysis of at least one of the plurality of images, wherein the look direction is determined based, at least in part, upon detection of a representation of a body part of the user in at least one of the plurality of images and determining a pointing direction of the body part relative to an optical axis associated with the wearable camera; causing selective conditioning of at least one audio signal received by the at least one microphone from a region associated with the look direction of the user; and causing transmission of the at least one conditioned audio signal to an interface device.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the conditioning includes at least one of a change in tone, a change in a rate of speech associated with the at least one audio signal.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the at least one microphone includes at least one of a directional microphone or a microphone array.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the body part of the user comprises a chin of the user.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein the conditioning includes amplification, and the amplification includes amplifying the at least one audio signal relative to other audio signals received by the at least one microphone from directions outside the region associated with the look direction of the user.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the amplification is accomplished through operation of a directional microphone that is configured to focus on audio sounds emanating from a region of interest.
28. The method of claim 22, wherein the conditioning includes amplification, and the amplification includes attenuating one or more audio signals received by the at least one microphone from directions outside the region associated with the look direction of the user.
29. The method of claim 22, wherein the hearing interface device includes a speaker associated with an earpiece.
30. The method of claim 22, wherein the hearing interface device includes a bone conduction microphone.
31. 31-338. (canceled)
339. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface device is configured to provide sound to an ear of the user.
340. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface device is configured to provide sound to a speakerphone.
341. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to cause transmission of information to a display of a mobile device for display.
</claims>
</document>
