<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06N3/04,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE PRECISION HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, MIN
GUAN, JIAHUI
AVINASH, GOPAL B.
SONI, RAVI
Ma, Zili
Pati, Dibyajyoti
Saripalli, Venkata Ratnam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917105
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Medical Machine Synthetic Data and Corresponding Event Generation
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatus, instructions, and methods for medical machine time-series event data generation are disclosed. An example synthetic time series data generation apparatus is to generate a synthetic data set including multi-channel time-series data and associated annotation using a first artificial intelligence network model. The example apparatus is to analyze the synthetic data set with respect to a real data set using a second artificial intelligence network model. When the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a first classification, the example apparatus is to adjust the first artificial intelligence network model using feedback from the second artificial intelligence network model. When the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a second classification, the example apparatus is to output the synthetic data set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A synthetic time series data generation apparatus comprising: memory storing instructions; and at least one processor to execute the instructions to at least: generate a synthetic data set including multi-channel time-series data and associated annotation using a first artificial intelligence network model; analyze the synthetic data set with respect to a real data set using a second artificial intelligence network model; when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a first classification, adjust the first artificial intelligence network model using feedback from the second artificial intelligence network model; and when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a second classification, output the synthetic data set.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first artificial intelligence model includes a generator of a generative adversarial network model, and wherein the second artificial intelligence model includes a discriminator of the generative adversarial network model.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the annotation includes an event associated with the time series data.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the event includes at least one of a first event external to a signal represented by the time-series data or a second event internal to the signal represented by the time-series data.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is to generate the synthetic data set using one or more latent input vectors for a plurality of times.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one-dimensional, time-series synthetic data includes synthetic waveform signal data.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processor is to impute the synthetic waveform signal data as missing data to complete a captured waveform.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the synthetic data set is to be provided to a model generator to at least one of train or test a third artificial intelligence network model.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first classification includes classification as synthetic data, wherein the second classification includes classification as real data, and wherein the classification is determined by the at least one processor using a decision aggregator.
10. At least one tangible computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to at least: generate a synthetic data set including multi-channel time-series data and associated annotation using a first artificial intelligence network model; analyze the synthetic data set with respect to a real data set using a second artificial intelligence network model; when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a first classification, adjust the first artificial intelligence network model using feedback from the second artificial intelligence network model; and when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a second classification, output the synthetic data set.
11. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the first artificial intelligence model includes a generator of a generative adversarial network model, and wherein the second artificial intelligence model includes a discriminator of the generative adversarial network model.
12. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the annotation includes an event associated with the time series data.
13. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the event includes at least one of a first event external to a signal represented by the time-series data or a second event internal to the signal represented by the time-series data.
14. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to generate the synthetic data set using one or more latent input vectors for a plurality of times.
15. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the one-dimensional, time-series synthetic data includes synthetic waveform signal data.
16. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to impute the synthetic waveform signal data as missing data to complete a captured waveform.
17. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to provide the synthetic data set to a model generator to at least one of train or test a third artificial intelligence network model.
18. The at least one tangible computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the first classification includes classification as synthetic data, and wherein the second classification includes classification as real data.
19. A computer-implemented method to generate synthetic time series data and associated annotation, the method comprising: generating, using at least one processor, a synthetic data set including multi-channel time-series data and associated annotation using a first artificial intelligence network model; analyzing, using the at least one processor, the synthetic data set with respect to a real data set using a second artificial intelligence network model; when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a first classification, adjusting, using the at least one processor, the first artificial intelligence network model using feedback from the second artificial intelligence network model; and when the second artificial intelligence network model classifies the synthetic data set as a second classification, outputting, using the at least one processor, the synthetic data set.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the first classification includes classification as synthetic data, and wherein the second classification includes classification as real data.
</claims>
</document>
