<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F40/279,G06F40/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HWANG, INCHUL
SHIN, YOUNGBIN
KIM, MUNJO
PAEON, CHANGHO
YANG, JAECHUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122192
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROLLING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus and a controlling method thereof are provided. The electronic apparatus includes a memory configured to store at least one instruction, and a processor configured to execute the at least one instruction to control the electronic apparatus to: determine a keyword from a query based on the query being input, obtain a word related to the keyword based on information on a user preference, and provide a response to the user query based on the keyword and the word. The processor may be configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain at least one word from among a plurality of candidate words corresponding to the keyword as a word related to the keyword based on the user preference information. For example, at least part of a method of providing a response to a query by the electronic apparatus may use an AI model that is trained using at least one of machine learning, neural network or deep learning algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store at least one instruction; and a processor configured execute the at least one instruction to control the electronic apparatus to: determine a keyword from a query based on the query being input, obtain a word related to the keyword based on information on a user preference, and provide a response to the query based on the keyword and the word, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain at least one word from among a plurality of candidate words corresponding to the keyword as a word related to the keyword based on the user preference information.
2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: determine a word corresponding to the keyword from among a plurality of words formed hierarchically based on the user preference information, and obtain a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of keywords that belong to a lower hierarchy layer of the determined word.
3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to provide the keyword and a search result based on a word related to the keyword as a response.
4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to provide a query regarding the query as the response based on the keyword and a word related to the keyword.
5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of words has a score corresponding to the user preference information.
6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to determine the plurality of candidate words that belong to a lower hierarchy layer of a word corresponding to the keyword from among the plurality of words, and obtain a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of candidate words based on a score of the plurality of candidate words.
7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 6, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to obtain a word having a score higher than a predetermined threshold value and having a ratio higher than a predetermined value with respect to a score of a word corresponding to a word of parent as a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of candidate words.
8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to update the score based on a selection regarding the response.
9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to increase a score of a word related the keyword from among the plurality of words and a score of at least one word that belongs to an upper hierarchy layer of the word related to the keyword based on the selection corresponding to the word related to the keyword.
10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 8, wherein the processor in configured to control the electronic apparatus to: increase a score of a word corresponding to the selection and a score of at least one word belonging to an upper hierarchy layer of a word corresponding to the selection based on the selection not corresponding to a word related to the keyword, and decrease a score of a word related to the keyword.
11. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: determining a keyword from a query based on the query being input; obtaining a word related to the keyword based on information on user preference; and providing a response to the query based on the keyword and the word, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining at least one word from among a plurality of candidate words corresponding to the keyword as a word related to the keyword based on the user preference information.
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the obtaining comprises determining a word corresponding to the keyword from among a plurality of words formed hierarchically based on the user preference information, and obtaining a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of keywords that belong to a lower hierarchy layer of the determined word.
13. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the providing a response comprises providing the keyword and a search result based on a word related to the keyword as the response.
14. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the providing a response comprises providing a query regarding the query as the response based on the keyword and a word related to the keyword.
15. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of words has a score corresponding to the user preference information.
16. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the obtaining a word related to the keyword comprises determining the plurality of candidate words that belong to a lower hierarchy layer of a word corresponding to the keyword from among the plurality of words; and obtaining a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of candidate words based on a score of the plurality of candidate words.
17. The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the obtaining a word related to the keyword comprises obtaining a word having a score higher than a predetermined threshold value and having a ratio higher than a predetermined value with respect to a score of a word corresponding to a word of parent as a word related to the keyword from among the plurality of candidate words.
18. The method as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: updating the score based on a selection regarding the response.
19. The method as claimed in claim 18, wherein the updating comprises, based on the selection corresponding to a word related to the keyword, increasing a score of the word related the keyword from among the plurality of words and a score of at least one word that belongs to an upper hierarchy layer of the word related to the keyword.
20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the updating comprises, based on the selection not corresponding to a word related to the keyword, increasing a score of a word corresponding to the selection and a score of at least one word that belongs to an upper hierarchy layer of a word corresponding to the selection; and decreasing a score of a word related to the keyword.
</claims>
</document>
