<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS OPERATING
</assignee>

<inventors>
REIMER, MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514869
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING AND IMPLEMENTING FIREWALLS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus for implementing and controlling a firewall in a router, e.g., a home router, are described. Network traffic through a router is monitored and analyzed the network to identify devices and the type of one or more of the identified devices. In some embodiments, the device type identification is performed using a neural network. The router stores a set of firewall templates. At different times a different templates are applied, e.g. based on mode of operation, user selection, and/or time information. Rules in a firewall template, applicable at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices, that are attempting to send or receive via the router, are applied. Different rules may, and sometimes do, apply to different device type classifications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, the method comprising: analyzing network traffic on a network to identify devices using a router; analyzing the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices; and applying, at the router, rules in a firewall template applicable at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to applying the rules in the firewall template applicable at a given time: storing a set of firewall templates, said set of firewall templates including at least a first firewall template including at least one firewall rule to be applied to devices of a first type, said devices of a first type being one of a video player device type, video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type or a cell phone device type; and determining the firewall template that is applicable at a given time from the stored set of firewall templates based on one or more of: i) a current day of the week, ii) a time of day, iii) a date, or iv) user input.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to applying the rules in the firewall template at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router, said devices including a first device: monitoring, at the router, network traffic through the router corresponding to the first device without subjecting said traffic corresponding to the first device to rules in the firewall template for a period of time; wherein analyzing the network traffic to identify devices using the router includes identifying the first device as a device using the network; and wherein analyzing the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices include identifying the device type of the first device as being a video player device type, a video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type, or a cell phone device type.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein analyzing the network traffic to identify devices using the router includes identifying devices located at a customer premises where said router is located based on at least one of a source address and a destination address included in detected network traffic.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein analyzing the network traffic to identify the type of one or more identified devices includes using a neural network trained to identify device types based on monitored traffic to determine a device type corresponding to an identified device.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: providing a user an opportunity to populate templates for different modes of operation, each template including network traffic restrictions to be applied by the firewall for one or more types of devices.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the firewall template applicable at the given time is a first template that corresponds to a concentrating mode of operation in which devices of different types listed in the template are to be blocked from accessing the Internet for a specified period of time.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the firewall template applicable at the given time is a first template that corresponds to a quality time mode in which Internet access is blocked for device types or specific devices identified in the template as devices which are to be permitted Internet access during quality time mode operation.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the firewall template applicable at the given time is a first template that corresponds to a metering mode of operation in which devices of at least one type are limited to a specified amount of access to one or more networks outside the customer premise within a predetermined recurring time.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the firewall template applicable at the given time is a first template that corresponds to a night mode in which video player type devices, gaming console type devices, mobile phone devices, computer type device and streaming music player devices are blocked by the router from communicating through the router.
11. A router comprising: a firewall; and a processor configured to: analyze network traffic on a network to identify devices using a router; analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices; and apply, at the router, rules in a firewall template applicable at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router.
12. The router of claim 11, wherein said processor is further configured to: store a set of firewall templates, said set of firewall templates including at least a first firewall template including at least one firewall rule to be applied to devices of a first type, said devices of a first type being one of a video player device type, video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type or a cell phone device type; and determine the firewall template that is applicable at a given time from the stored set of firewall templates based on one or more of: i) a current day of the week, ii) a time of day, iii) a date, or iv) user input, said storing a set of firewall templates and said determining the firewall template that is applicable at a given time, being performed prior to applying the rules in the firewall template applicable at the given time.
13. The router of claim 11, wherein said processor is further configured to: monitor, at the router, network traffic through the router corresponding to a first device without subjecting said traffic corresponding to the first device to rules in the firewall template for a period of time, said first device being one of said devices; identify the first device as a device using the network as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify devices using the router; and identify the device type of the first device as being a video player device type, a video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type, or a cell phone device type, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices, said monitoring, said identifying the first device, and said identifying the device type of the first device being performed prior to applying the rules in the firewall template at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router.
14. The router of claim 13, wherein said processor is further configured to: identify devices located at a customer premises where said router is located based on at least one of a source address and a destination address included in detected network traffic, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify devices using the router.
15. The router of claim 3, wherein said processor is further configured to: use a neural network trained to identify device types based on monitored traffic to determine a device type corresponding to an identified device, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more identified devices.
16. A system comprising: a router including: a firewall; and a first processor configured to: apply, at the router, rules in a firewall template applicable at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router; and a server including: a second processor configured to analyze network traffic on a network to identify devices using a router; and analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein said first processor is further configured to: store a set of firewall templates, said set of firewall templates including at least a first firewall template including at least one firewall rule to be applied to devices of a first type, said devices of a first type being one of a video player device type, video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type or a cell phone device type; and determine the firewall template that is applicable at a given time from the stored set of firewall templates based on one or more of: i) a current day of the week, ii) a time of day, iii) a date, or iv) user input; and wherein said storing a set of firewall templates and said determining the firewall template that is applicable at a given time are performed prior to applying the rules in the firewall template applicable at a given time.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein said first processor is further configured to: monitor, at the router, network traffic through the router corresponding to a first device without subjecting said traffic corresponding to the first device to rules in the firewall template for a period of time, said first device being one of said devices; wherein said second processor is further configured to: identify the first device as a device using the network as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify devices using the router; and identify the device type of the first device as being a video player device type, a video camera device type, a voice assistant device type, a gaming console device type, or a cell phone device type, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more of the identified devices, said monitoring, identifying the first device and identifying the device type of the first device being performed prior to said applying the rules in the firewall template at a given time to traffic corresponding to identified devices that are attempting to send or receive via the router.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein said second processor (402) is further configured to: identify devices located at a customer premises where said router is located based on at least one of a source address and a destination address included in detected network traffic, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify devices using the router.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein said second processor is further configured to: use a neural network trained to identify device types based on monitored traffic to determine a device type corresponding to an identified device, as part of being configured to analyze the network traffic to identify the type of one or more identified devices.
</claims>
</document>
