<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F9/54,G08B21/04,G08B21/18,G08B27/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAGUMA, DAVID W.
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
Sifuna, Arphaxade Wanjala
Kipchirchir, Clifton
Byamugisha, Joan
Cintas, Celia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551342
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTERPRETING REACTIONS OF OTHER PEOPLE FOR PHYSICALLY IMPAIRED DURING AN EMERGENCY SITUATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and apparatus of for guiding a physically impaired individual during an emergency, including receiving emergency data, determining or predicting the reactions of other people in response to the emergency data, interpreting in real-time the reactions of the other people to physically impaired person according to the impaired person profile, determining a type and modality of aid services to the physically impaired, and prompting the physically impaired person through one or more devices for aid services.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for guiding a physically impaired individual during an emergency, comprising: receiving emergency data; determining or predicting the reactions of other people in response to the emergency data; interpreting in real-time the reactions of the other people to physically impaired person according to the impaired person profile; determining a type and modality of aid services to the physically impaired person; and prompting the physically impaired person through one or more devices for aid services.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the other people reactions include confused, stressed, panicked, skipping, and hiding.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein characterizing the detected or predicted reactions and actions and activities further based on the inferred type of crowd behavior, groups and their trajectories, people density and approximation count and the source of the alarm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein predicting the physically impaired person to react incorrectly, being based on analyzing the one or more other people reactions.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more reactions causing to mislead the physically impaired person.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein computing a risk level to each impaired person is based on profile and previous reaction-actions.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein configuring devices used by the impaired person to broadcast emergency data along with details of the physically impaired person to trained emergency response team or family members so that they can be assisted accordingly.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the most efficient and safe actions to be undertaken by the physically impaired person.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying whether the impaired person is alone or with someone.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising establishing trust relationships between the impaired person and those who accompanied them.
11. The method according to claim 1 being cloud implemented.
12. A system for guiding, comprising: a memory storing computer instructions; and a processor configured to execute the computer instructions to: receiving emergency data; determining or predicting the reactions of other people in response to the emergency data; interpreting in real-time the reactions of the other people to physically impaired person according to the impaired person profile; determining a type and modality of aid services to the physically impaired person; and prompting the physically impaired person through one or more devices for aid services.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the other people reactions include confused, stressed, panicked, skipping, and hiding, and wherein characterizing the detected or predicted reactions and actions and activities further is based on the inferred type of crowd behavior.
14. The system according to claim 12, wherein characterizing the detected or predicted reactions and actions and activities further based on the inferred type of crowd behavior, groups and their trajectories, people density and approximation count and the source of the alarm, and wherein predicting the physically impaired person to react incorrectly, being based on analyzing the one or more other people reactions.
15. The system according to claim 12, wherein determining the one or more reactions causing to mislead the physically impaired person, wherein computing a risk level to each impaired person is based on profile and previous reaction-actions, wherein configuring devices used by the impaired person to broadcast emergency data along with details of the physically impaired person to trained emergency response team or family members so that they can be assisted accordingly; and further comprising: determining the most efficient and safe actions to be undertaken by the physically impaired person; identifying whether the impaired person is alone or with someone; and establishing trust relationships between the impaired person and those who accompanied them.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions readable and executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method, comprising: receiving emergency data; determining or predicting the reactions of other people in response to the emergency data; and interpreting in real-time the reactions of the other people to physically impaired person according to the impaired person profile.
17. The computer program product according to claim 16, wherein characterizing the detected or predicted reactions and actions and activities further based on the inferred type of crowd behavior, groups and their trajectories, people density and approximation count and the source of the alarm, and wherein predicting the physically impaired person to react incorrectly, being based on analyzing the one or more other people reactions, further comprising: determining a type and modality of aid services to the physically impaired; and prompting the physically impaired person via one or more devices for aid services.
18. The computer program product according to claim 16, wherein determining the one or more reactions causing to mislead the physically impaired person, and wherein computing a risk level to each impaired person is based on profile and previous reaction-actions.
19. The computer program product according to claim 16, wherein configuring devices used by the impaired person to broadcast emergency data along with details of the physically impaired person to trained emergency response team or family members so that they can be assisted accordingly, and further comprising determining the most efficient and safe actions to be undertaken by the physically impaired person.
20. The computer program product according to claim 16, further comprising: identifying whether the impaired person is alone or with someone; and establishing trust relationships between the impaired person and those who accompanied them.
</claims>
</document>
