<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06Q10/10,H04L12/24,H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABNORMAL SECURITY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAGRI, ABHIJIT
BRATMAN, JESHUA ALEXIS
CHECHIK, DMITRY
GASPERI, CARLOS DANIEL
JEYAKUMAR, SANJAY
JIANG, KAI JING
KAO, JEREMY
LAU, KEVIN
LEE, YU ZHOU
LIAO, SANNY XIAO YANG
REISER, EVAN JAMES
TAN, SU LI DEBBIE
YEH, CHENG-LIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650960
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROGRAMMATIC DISCOVERY, RETRIEVAL, AND ANALYSIS OF COMMUNICATIONS TO IDENTIFY ABNORMAL COMMUNICATION ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
Conventional email filtering services are not suitable for recognizing sophisticated malicious emails, and therefore may allow sophisticated malicious emails to reach inboxes by mistake. Introduced here are threat detection platforms designed to take an integrative approach to detecting security threats. For example, after receiving input indicative of an approval from an individual to access past email received by employees of an enterprise, a threat detection platform can download past emails to build a machine learning (ML) model that understands the norms of communication with internal contacts (e.g., other employees) and/or external contacts (e.g., vendors). By applying the ML model to incoming email, the threat detection platform can identify security threats in real time in a targeted manner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving input indicative of an approval to access past emails that were delivered to an employee of an enterprise over a given interval of time; establishing, via an application programming interface, a connection with a storage medium that includes the past emails; downloading, via the application programming interface, the past emails into a local processing environment; and building a machine learning (ML) model for identifying abnormal communication activity by providing the past emails to the ML model as training data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: examining each past email downloaded into the local processing environment to identify a sender identity and a sender email address; and populating entries in a database such that sender identities are associated with the corresponding sender email addresses as identified in the past emails.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving an email addressed to the employee; examining the email to establish a sender identity and a sender email address; and determining whether the email represents a security threat based on whether the sender identity and the sender email address as identified in the email match an entry in the database.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an email addressed to the employee; and establishing whether the email is indicative of an abnormal communication activity by applying the ML model to the email.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein an output produced by the ML model upon being applied to the email indicates that the email message is indicative of an abnormal communication activity due to a presence of a previously unknown sender identity, a previously unknown sender email address, or a previously unknown combination of sender identity and sender email address.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: responsive to a determination that the email is indicative of an abnormal communication activity, uploading information related to the email to a federated database used to protect multiple enterprises against security threats.
7. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining, by a threat detection platform, that a communication event involving reception of an email is presently occurring; acquiring, by the threat detection platform, information related to the email; resolving, by the threat detection platform, entities involved in the communication event by examining the information; and compiling, by the threat detection platform, corpus statistics for the entities determined to be involved in the communication event.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein said determining is accomplished by examining incoming emails received by an email system with which the threat detection platform is programmatically integrated.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the programmatic integration of the threat detection platform with the email system ensures that all external and internal emails are routed through the threat detection platform for examination.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the information is derived from the email.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising: augmenting, by the threat detection platform, the information with human-curated datasets; wherein said resolving is performed on the augmented information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein said resolving comprises: establishing an identity of a sender based on an origin of the email, content of the email, or metadata accompanying the email; and establishing an identity of a recipient based on a destination of the email, content of the email, or metadata accompanying the email.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising: causing the corpus statistics to be shown in the form of an entity risk graph.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the entities include a sender of the email, a recipient of the email, a domain discovered in the email, a link discovered in the email, an Internet Protocol (IP) address discovered in metadata accompanying the email, an origin of the email, a topic determined based on content of the email, or any combination thereof.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the entity risk graph includes historical combinations of the entities and a separate risk score for each historical combination.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein each entity is represented as a separate node in the entity risk graph, and wherein each connection between a pair of nodes is indicative of risk of an event involving a pair of entities associated with the pair of nodes based on past communication events.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium with instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: acquiring an incoming email addressed to an employee of an enterprise; applying multiple machine learning (ML) models to the incoming email to identify linguistic features of multiple types, wherein each ML model of the multiple ML models is designed to detect linguistic features of a different type; determining whether the incoming email poses a risk to the enterprise based on the linguistic features identified by the multiple ML models; and causing display of a visualization component that indicates how a determination regarding the risk was made on an interface.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein at least one ML model of the multiple ML models is unable to identify any instances of the corresponding type of linguistic feature.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the visualization component is a graphic that specifies why the determination was made, and wherein the graphic is shown overlaying the incoming email on the interface.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the visualization component includes the incoming email with digital elements embedded therein to visually highlight the linguistic features.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 20, wherein each digital element includes (i) one or more words that are representative of the linguistic feature and (ii) a tag indicating the type of linguistic feature.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 20, wherein each type of linguistic feature is represented by digital elements in a different color.
</claims>
</document>
