<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C31/06,B64F3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Oceanergy AG
</assignee>

<inventors>
Reiners, Wolfram
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67385902
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROL DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING A KITE STEERING ARRANGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A control device for controlling a kite steering arrangement, including a base, a control bar support extending downward on the base, a control bar pivot point mounted displaceably about the control bar support, a pair of interconnecting members extending between opposing end regions of the control bar and the base upper the control bar support, a tensioning mechanism, a base pivot point, a base rotator for allowing rotation of the base about a vertical axis thereof, a manipulator that manipulates the base pivot point and base rotator, and a communicator, that communicates adjustment of the interconnecting members to the kite steering arrangement. The length aspect of the interconnecting members is adjusted by pivoting the control bar about the control bar pivot point and/or by displacement of the control bar pivot point relative the control bar support.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control device for controlling a kite steering arrangement, comprising: a base; a control bar support extending downward the base; a control bar pivot point mounted displaceably about the control bar support for pivotally supporting a control bar, when in use; a pair of interconnecting members extending inbetween opposing end regions of the control bar and the base upper the control bar support, wherein a length aspect of the interconnecting members is adjusted by: pivoting the control bar about the control bar pivot point; or by displacement of the control bar pivot point relative the control bar support; a tensioning mechanism that tensions the interconnecting members by exerting a pulling force on the control bar; a base pivot point that allows pivoting of the base about a horizontal axis thereof; a base rotator that allows rotation of the base about a vertical axis thereof; a manipulator that manipulates the base pivot point and base rotator, wherein the manipulator aligns the control device with a positional orientation of the kite or kite connecting lines; and a communicator that communicates adjustment of the interconnecting members to the kite steering arrangement, wherein the kite connecting lines or actuators at the kite are adjusted accordingly.
2. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the base is mounted onto a rotatable platform.
3. A control device as claimed in claim 2, wherein the base includes a lower base portion, and, an upper frame portion, the base pivot point pivotally interconnecting the lower base portion and the upper frame portion.
4. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the control bar support includes stopper formations that limit a degree of upper or lower displacement of the control bar relative the control bar support.
5. A control device as claimed in claim 4, wherein the stopper formations are mounted displaceably relative the control bar support.
6. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the pair of interconnecting members comprises lines, ropes or cables.
7. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tensioning mechanism is supported by an upper frame portion.
8. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tensioning mechanism is configured to measure a degree of adjustment of a length aspect of the interconnecting members.
9. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tensioning mechanism is configured to measure length aspects of the interconnecting members extending between a frame and the control bar while the interconnecting members are manipulated, with a propensity to decrease the length aspects thereof.
10. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the tensioning mechanism comprises: a linear cylinder or an electro-motor operatively connected to a toothed chain or belt; and a pulley mounted onto the toothed chain or belt, wherein the pulley is operatively connected to the interconnecting member.
11. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the base pivot point comprises a toothed surface operatively connected to a gear that pivots an upper frame type element relative the lower base portion as the gear is rotated relative the toothed surface.
12. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the base rotator comprises a toothed surface defined about an outer or inner surface of a base portion; or the base rotator is operatively connected to its own gear and rotates the base portion about a vertical axis thereof upon rotation of the gear.
13. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the manipulator comprises a driven motor that drives the base pivot point or the base rotator.
14. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the manipulator comprises sensory feedback from the kite, the kite connecting lines, or the kite steering arrangement; the manipulator manipulates the base pivot point; and manipulating the base pivot point: pivots a frame type element in alignment with a spatial orientation of the kite in space; or to mimics a trajectory of the kite connecting lines extending between the kite steering arrangement and the kite.
15. A control device as claimed in claim 14, wherein the spatial orientation of the kite in space is measured by: an optical signal from the kite; a radar signal; or an acoustical/sonar signal from the kite.
16. A control device as claimed in claim 14, wherein the spatial orientation of the kite is measured by a GPS sensor mounted at the kite.
17. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the communicator comprises a computer and a transmitter.
18. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the communicator causes the kite steering arrangement to adjust lengths of the kite connecting lines by effecting one or more kite line length adjusters of the kite steering arrangement.
19. A control device as claimed in claim 18, wherein the kite line length adjusters comprises a reel, a winch, a linear actuator, a linear cylinder, a drive belt, a chain, or a deflector.
20. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the communicator is configured to cause: adjustment of a location of the kite connecting lines extending from the kite; or movement of an attachment point of the kite connecting lines extending from the kite.
21. A control device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the communicator causes the kite steering arrangement to adjust actuators, rudders, elevators, ailerons, or servo tabs located at the kite by effecting one or more kite line length adjusters of the kite steering arrangement.
22. A control device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a display that displays actual tensional forces experienced by the kite connecting lines.
23. A control device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a display that displays a length of the kite connecting lines extending between the kite steering arrangement and the kite.
24. A control device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a translator adjuster that adjusts: an effect of a degree of pivoting; or displacement of the control bar relative to the control bar support on the kite steering arrangement.
25. A control device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a kite connecting line adjuster that adjusts respective lengths of the kite connecting lines, separate for each line, extending between the kite steering arrangement and the kite.
26. A control device as claimed in claim 1, comprising a rating or recording system, wherein: a user rates flight manoeuvres; and the ratings are recorded together with: positioning data of the kite; orientation data of the kite; tension data of the kite connecting lines; or steering inputs of the user at the control device.
</claims>
</document>
