<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/41,G06F9/54,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VARMING, CARSTEN
RUNGTA, NEHA
BOLIGNANO, PAULINE VIRGINIE
COOK, JOHN BYRON
NEDIC, ANDREA
LUCKOW, Kasper Søe
GACEK, Andrew Jude
BRAY, Tyler
SCHLESINGER, Cole
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465305
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTENT-BASED GOVERNANCE SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for intent-based governance are described. For example, in some instances a method of receiving an indication of a change involving of one or more of code, a policy, a network configuration, or a governance requirement rule impacting a resource in a provider network for an account that is to be analyzed using one or more governance requirement rules; determining one or more governance requirement rules to evaluate for compliance after the update; evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules for compliance using one or more reasoning engines according to one or more policies; and making a result of the evaluating available to a user provides such governance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving one or more configurations for governance requirement rules; receiving an indication of an update to one or more of code, a policy, a network configuration, or a governance requirement rule impacting a resource in a provider network for an account that is to be analyzed using one or more governance requirement rules by an intent-based governance service; determining one or more governance requirement rules to evaluate for compliance after the update of the resource based on at least the resource type; evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules for compliance using one or more reasoning engines according to two or more policies; and displaying a result of the evaluating to a user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a governance requirement rule includes information about one or more of what organization or accounts the rule is to apply to including one or more of values for principals, accounts, resource names, source address, source virtual networks, tags, classless inter-domain routing information, and policy information.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined one or more governance requirement rules relates to code verification for a code segment and evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules comprises: generating one or more control flow graphs for the code segment are generated; and evaluating all paths of these graphs to see if the determined one or more governance requirement rules are not followed for a given application programming interface call in the code segment.
4. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an indication of a change involving of one or more of code, a policy, a network configuration, or a governance requirement rule impacting a resource in a provider network for an account that is to be analyzed using one or more governance requirement rules; determining one or more governance requirement rules to evaluate for compliance after the update; evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules for compliance using one or more reasoning engines according to one or more policies; and making a result of the evaluating available to a user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the one or more governance requirement rules are mapped to one or more compliance, security, or business requirements.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein a governance requirement rule includes information about one or more of what organization or accounts the rule is to apply to including one or more of values for principals, accounts, resource names, source address, source virtual networks, tags, classless inter-domain routing information, and policy information.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the determined one or more governance requirement rules relates to code verification for a code segment and evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules comprises: generating one or more control flow graphs for the code segment are generated; symbolically evaluating all paths of these graphs to see if the determined one or more governance requirement rules are not followed for a given application programming interface call in the code segment; and blocking deployment of the code segment when at least one of the determined one or more governance requirement rules is not followed.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein a type of resource is one or more of a compute resource, data/storage resource, network-related resource, application resource, access policy or role, identity policy or role, or machine image.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the determined one or more governance requirement rules relates to a resource create, read, update, or delete and evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules comprises: obtaining a security check associated with the resource; obtaining a first set of configuration parameters to indicate whether a first virtual resource instance created using the set of configuration parameters passes the first security check; comparing the first set of configuration parameters to a second set of configuration parameters to determine whether the set of configuration parameters to determine the first set of configuration parameters passes the security check; and blocking the resource create, read, update, or delete when there is a violation.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein determined one or more governance requirement rules relates to data privacy and evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules comprises: determining a first propositional logic based at least in part on a first set of security permissions; determining a second propositional logic based at least in part on a second set of security permissions; determining the first propositional logic and the second propositional logic lack equivalency using the first propositional logic and the second propositional logic; and providing an indication that the first set of security permissions and the second set of security permissions lack equivalency.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein determined one or more governance requirement rules relates to networking information and evaluating the determined one or more governance requirement rules comprises: receiving a query about a client's virtual network on the provider network, wherein the query expresses a constraint problem; obtaining descriptive information for the virtual network; encoding the descriptive information according to a declarative logic programming language to generate an encoded description of the virtual network; resolving the query for the encoded description according to encoded virtual networking rules using a constraint solver engine; and providing results of the query resolution to the client.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: for a violation of the determined one or more governance requirements rules, tracking information about an actor that made the change.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the indication of an update of a resource in a provider network is provided by a configuration service that is to monitor for code changes, networking changes, policy changes, and governance requirement rule changes.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein a governance requirement rule may be of an audit type or a preventative type.
15. A system comprising: one or more data stores to store code, a policy, a network configuration, and a governance requirement rule; and an intent-based governance service implemented by a second one or more electronic devices, the intent-based governance service including instructions that upon execution cause the intent-based governance service to: receive an indication of a change involving of one or more of code, a policy, a network configuration, or a governance requirement rule impacting a resource in a provider network for an account that is to be analyzed using one or more governance requirement rules; determine one or more governance requirement rules to evaluate for compliance after the update of the resource based on at least the resource type; evaluate the determined one or more governance requirement rules for compliance using one or more reasoning engines according to one or more policies; and make a result of the evaluating available to a user.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more governance requirement rules are mapped to one or more compliance, security, or business requirements.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein a governance requirement rule includes information about one or more of what organization or accounts the rule is to apply to including one or more of values for principals, accounts, resource names, source address, source virtual networks, tags, classless inter-domain routing information, and policy information.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein a resource is one of a compute resource, data/storage resource, network-related resource, application resource, access policy or role, identity policy or role, or machine image.
19. The system of claim 15, further comprising: a configuration service to monitor for code changes, networking changes, policy changes, and governance requirement rule changes and provide the indication of an update of a resource in a provider network to the intent-based governance service.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein a governance requirement rule may be of an audit type or a preventative type.
</claims>
</document>
