<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248,G06F16/29,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANJO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATTON, DAMIEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66826115
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRESENTING EVENT INTELLIGENCE AND TRENDS TAILORED PER GEOGRAPHIC AREA GRANULARITY
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for presenting event intelligence and trends tailored per geographic area granularity. Event related data can be combined with information from other domains to enable intelligent decision making within those domains. Responsive to user commands, graphical presentation can be tailored to a geographic granularity and can vary between geographic granularities. Event related information and other information for a defined area as well as adjacent areas can be at least partially summarized based on geographic granularity. At least partially summarizing data for currently presented areas as well as adjacent areas reduces resource consumption when moving between presented areas, for example, in a map. The level of summarization can be a tailored to a selected geographic granularity. As such, overall presented graphical data (e.g., total number of icons) can be relatively stable, and possibly tuned to available computing resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: reducing the dimensionality of a first raw signal into a first normalized signal including at least a location dimension; detecting a potential event from the first normalized signal; based on the location dimension of the first normalized signal, identifying a geo cell listening area; reducing the dimensionality of a second raw signal into a second normalized signal related to the potential event, the second raw signal being identified from within the geo cell listening area; validating the potential event as a validated actual event in view of the second normalized signal; accessing event data corresponding to the validated actual event from a geo cell database; accessing domain specific data corresponding to a defined area from a domain specific database; at least partially summarizing a combination of the event data and the domain specific data with map data into a map view; and presenting the map view at a display device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing domain specific data comprises accessing domain specific data from one of: a real estate domain, an economic development domain, an insurance domain, an actuarial domain, a financial domain, a telecommunications domain, a child protection domain, a pharmaceuticals domain, a narcotics use domain, or a prescription data domain.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing other map data corresponding to an adjacent area adjacent to the defined area; at least partially summarizing another combination of the event data and the domain specific data with the other map data; receiving a user command shifting focus of the map view to the adjacent area; and presenting the map view of the adjacent area at the display device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a user command changing an initial geographic granularity of the map view to a different geographic granularity; tailoring the at least partial summarization of the event data and the domain specific data combination to the different geographic granularity subsequent to receiving the user command; and presenting the map view of the defined area at a display device with the tailored at least partial summarization.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing an event trend for the defined area; and wherein presenting the map view of the defined area at a display device comprises presenting the event trend at the display device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein computing an event trend for the defined area comprises computing one of: a past trend, a present trend, or future trend.
7. A computer system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: reduce the dimensionality of a first raw signal into a first normalized signal including at least a location dimension; detect a potential event from the first normalized signal; based on the location dimension of the first normalized signal, identify a geo cell listening area; reduce the dimensionality of a second raw signal into a second normalized signal related to the potential event, the second raw signal being identified from within the geo cell listening area; validate the potential event as a validated actual event in view of the second normalized signal; access event data corresponding to the validated actual event from a geo cell database; access domain specific data corresponding to a defined area from a domain specific database; at least partially summarize a combination of the event data and the domain specific data with map data into a map view; and present the map view at a display device.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein instructions configured to access domain specific data comprise instructions configured to access domain specific data from one of: a real estate domain, an economic development domain, an insurance domain, an actuarial domain, a financial domain, a telecommunications domain, a child protection domain, a pharmaceuticals domain, a narcotics use domain, or a prescription data domain.
9. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions configured to: access other map data corresponding to an adjacent area adjacent to the defined area; at least partially summarize another combination of the event data and the domain specific data with the other map data; receive a user command shifting focus of the map view to the adjacent area; and present the map view of the adjacent area at the display device.
10. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions configured to: receive a user command changing an initial geographic granularity to a different geographic granularity; tailor the at least partial summarization of the event data and the domain specific data combination to the different geographic granularity subsequent to receiving the user command; and present the map view of the defined area at a display device with the tailored at least partial summarization.
11. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions configured to compute an event trend for the defined area; and wherein instructions configured to present the map view of the defined area at a display device comprise instructions configured to present the event trend at the display device.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to compute an event trend for the defined area comprise instructions configured to compute one of: a past trend, a present trend, or future trend.
13. A method comprising: detecting a potential event from a normalized signal; querying the geo cell database with search terms derived from the normalized signal; receiving a list of geo cells from the geo cell database, each geo cell in the list of geo cells matching at least one of the search terms within a specified margin of error; monitoring a geo cell of the list of geo cells for additional signals related to the potential event; detecting another signal related to the potential event within a listening area of the geo cell; validating the potential event as an actual event in view of the other signal; and notifying an entity that the actual event occurred.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein detecting a potential event comprises detecting a potential event based on location information contained in the normalized signal; wherein detecting another signal comprises detecting another normalized signal; and wherein validating the potential event as an actual event comprises validating the potential event as an actual event based on non-location information contained in the other normalized signal and in view the information contained in the normalized signal.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein detecting a potential event comprises detecting a potential event based on a probability value associated with the normalized signal and that reflects a mathematical probability of an event in an event category actually occurring; and wherein validating the potential event as an actual event comprises validating the potential event as an actual event based on another probability value associated with the other signal and that reflects another mathematical probability of an event in the event category actually occurring.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: ingesting a raw signal; and formatting the raw signal into the normalized signal including reducing the dimensions of the raw signal.
17. A computer system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: detect a potential event from a normalized signal; query the geo cell database with search terms derived from the normalized signal; receive a list of geo cells from the geo cell database, each geo cell in the list of geo cells matching at least one of the search terms within a specified margin of error; monitor a geo cell of the list of geo cells for additional signals related to the potential event; detect another signal related to the potential event within a listening area of the geo cell; validate the potential event as an actual event in view of the other signal; and notify an entity that the actual event occurred.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein instructions configured to detect a potential event comprise instructions configured to detect a potential event based on information contained in the normalized signal; wherein instructions configured to detect another signal comprises instructions configured to detect another normalized signal; and wherein instructions configured to validate the potential event as an actual event comprises instructions configured to validate the potential event as an actual event based on other information contained in the other normalized signal and in view the information contained in the normalized signal.
19. The computer system of claim 17, wherein instructions configured to detect a potential event comprise instructions configured to detect a potential event based on a probability value associated with the normalized signal and that reflects a mathematical probability of an event in an event category actually occurring; and wherein instructions configured to validate the potential event as an actual event comprise instructions configured to validate the potential event as an actual event based on another probability value associated with the other signal and that reflects another mathematical probability of an event in the event category actually occurring.
20. The computer system of claim 17, further comprising instructions configured to: ingest a raw signal; and format the raw signal into the normalized signal by at least reducing the dimensions of the raw signal.
</claims>
</document>
