<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIND, JESPER
BROYDA, JULIY
Arshavski, Yuri
Ioffe, Anton
Sigal, Lev
Sundararaman, Suchitra
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065217
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY AND FRAUD DETECTION WITH FAKE EVENT DETECTION USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure involves systems, software, and computer implemented methods for transaction auditing. One example method includes training at least one machine learning model to determine features that can be used to determine whether an image is an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, using a training set of authentic images and a training set of automatically generated document images. A request to classify an image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image is received. The machine learning model(s) are used to classify the image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, based on features included in the image that are identified by the machine learning model(s). A classification of the image is provided. The machine learning model(s) are updated based on the image and the classification of the image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: training at least one machine learning model to determine features that can be used to determine whether an image is an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, using a first training set of authentic images and a second training set of automatically generated document images; receiving a request to classify a first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image; using the at least one machine learning model to classify the first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, based on features included in the first image that are identified by the at least one machine learning model; providing a classification of the first image in response to the request; and updating the at least one machine learning model based on the first image and the classification of the first image, for classifying subsequent requests.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image is classified as an authentic image of a first document.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first document is a receipt.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first image is an image of a printed receipt.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first image is an image of the printed receipt as captured by a camera.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image is classified as an automatically generated document image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the first image is not captured by a camera.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first image is classified as an automatically generated document image based on at least one feature that indicates a likelihood that the first image was not captured by a camera.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises a neural network model.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the neural network model learns the features that can be used to determine whether an image is an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises a regression model.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the regression model uses a plurality of predetermined feature types.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the regression model classifies the first image based on an aggregation of scores determined for the first image for the plurality of predetermined feature types.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein a first score for a first feature indicates a probability that the first image is an authentic image of a document.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein a second score for a second feature indicates a probability that the first image is an automatically generated document image.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a filtering layer when classifying the first image.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the filtering layer comprises a white list mechanism, and wherein the method further comprises: determining that the first image corresponds to a whitelisted entity; and classifying the image as an authentic image based on determining that the first image corresponds to a whitelisted entity.
18. A system comprising: one or more computers; and a computer-readable medium coupled to the one or more computers having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: training at least one machine learning model to determine features that can be used to determine whether an image is an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, using a first training set of authentic images and a second training set of automatically generated document images; receiving a request to classify a first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image; using the at least one machine learning model to classify the first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, based on features included in the first image that are identified by the at least one machine learning model; providing a classification of the first image in response to the request; and updating the at least one machine learning model based on the first image and the classification of the first image, for classifying subsequent requests.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the first image is classified as an automatically generated document image based on at least one feature that indicates a likelihood that the first image was not captured by a camera.
20. A computer program product encoded on a non-transitory storage medium, the product comprising non-transitory, computer readable instructions for causing one or more processors to perform operations comprising: training at least one machine learning model to determine features that can be used to determine whether an image is an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, using a first training set of authentic images and a second training set of automatically generated document images; receiving a request to classify a first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image; using the at least one machine learning model to classify the first image as either an authentic image of a document or an automatically generated document image, based on features included in the first image that are identified by the at least one machine learning model; providing a classification of the first image in response to the request; and updating the at least one machine learning model based on the first image and the classification of the first image, for classifying subsequent requests.
</claims>
</document>
