<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/22,G08B13/16,G08B13/196,G08B25/01,G08B25/14,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRIFT NET
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLES, AARON BRENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69650693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Security System for Detecting Hazardous Events and Occupants in a Building
</title>

<abstract>
A gunshot detection/security system for detecting dangerous events in a school or other building includes one or several pods placed throughout the building premises. Each pod includes a camera, a thermal camera, and an acoustic sensor for detecting video, images, heat signatures, and sound within a detection area for the respective pod. The sensor data is then analyzed to identify a dangerous event in the building, and provide alerts regarding the dangerous event via the pods or client computing devices of students/occupants in the building, administrators, parents, and emergency responders. A server computing device generates digital maps of the interior and exterior of the building having location information regarding the occupants of the building and a danger zone indicating the epicenter for the dangerous event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A security system comprising: a multi-sensor device including: a camera configured to capture images within a detection area of the multi-sensor device; and a thermal camera configured to detect heat signatures from objects within the detection area; and a computing device including: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing instructions thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to: receive image data, and heat signatures from the camera, and the thermal camera, respectively; analyze the image data, and heat signatures to identify a dangerous event at the detection area; and provide an alert indicating the dangerous event at the detection area.
2. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device is encased in a bulletproof material.
3. The security system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: detect a person within the detection area by: analyzing the image data to identify an object within the image having features corresponding to a person; analyzing the heat signature for the object to determine whether the heat signature for the person is within a body temperature range; and detecting the person when the object within the image has features corresponding to the person and the heat signature is within the body temperature range.
4. The security system of claim 3, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: generate a map of the detection area including indications of people within the detection area and an indication of a dangerous person or object within the detection area.
5. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes an acoustic sensor configured to detect sound within the detection area, wherein to analyze the image data, heat signatures, and sound data to identify a dangerous event at the detection area, the instructions cause the computing device to: compare a heat signature to a threshold explosion temperature; compare a sound to a threshold noise level range; and detect a gunshot based on the heat signature being above the threshold explosion temperature and the sound being within the threshold noise level range.
6. The security system of claim 5, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: in response to detecting the gunshot: identify a number of blasts based on the sound data.
7. The security system of claim 6, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: identify a noise level associated with each blast from the sound data; and identify a type of weapon corresponding to the gunshot based on the number of blasts and the noise level associated with each blast.
8. The security system of claim 5, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: in response to detecting the gunshot: analyze a change in position of the heat signatures that are above the threshold explosion temperature over time to determine a trajectory of a projectile.
9. The security system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: store the image data in response to identifying the dangerous event at the detection area.
10. The security system of claim 1, wherein the security system includes a plurality of multi-sensor devices dispersed throughout a building.
11. The security system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of multi-sensor devices communicate with each other to track a location of a danger zone within a predetermined threshold distance of the dangerous event.
12. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes a speaker and the instructions further cause the computing device to: provide, via the speaker, an alert specific to the detection area for the multi-sensor device.
13. The security system of claim 1, wherein the alert includes information regarding the dangerous event.
14. The security system of claim 13, wherein the information regarding the dangerous event includes a location of an active shooter.
15. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes a communication interface configured to communicate with portable devices via a short-range communication link and configured to communicate with the computing device via a long-range communication link.
16. The security system of claim 15, wherein one of the portable devices determines that the portable device is within the detection area of the multi-sensor device in response to receiving a transmission from the multi-sensor device via the short-range communication link.
17. The security system of claim 16, wherein the transmission includes a unique identifier for the multi-sensor device to identify the multi-sensor device of a plurality of multi-sensor devices and a corresponding detection area.
18. The security system of claim 15, wherein one of the portable devices is a visitor badge.
19. The security system of claim 1, wherein to analyze the image data, and heat signatures to identify a dangerous event at the detection area, the instructions cause the computing device to: compare a heat signature of the heat signatures to a threshold fire temperature; and detect a fire based on the heat signature being above the threshold fire temperature.
20. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes: a gas sensor configured to detect gas within the detection area.
21. The security system of claim 20, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: receive an indication of a gas leak from the gas sensor; and provide an alert of the gas leak within the detection area.
22. The security system of claim 20, wherein the gas sensor is configured to detect air quality within the detection area.
23. The security system of claim 20, wherein the gas sensor is configured to detect at least one of: carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, acetylene, methanol, or ethanol.
24. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes: a microphone configured to receive voice communications within the detection area for interacting with an administrator or emergency responder.
25. The security system of claim 1, wherein to analyze the image data, and heat signatures to identify a dangerous event at the detection area, the instructions cause the computing device to: analyze the image data to identify an object within the image having features corresponding to a weapon prior to detecting a gunshot.
26. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes: a rechargeable power cell configured to provide power to sensors within the multi-sensor device; and one or more generators configured to generate additional power and provide the additional power to recharge the rechargeable power cell.
27. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes: one or more fasteners for attaching a casing to the multi-sensor device; a sensor communicatively coupled to at least one of the fasteners configured to detect whether the at least one fastener has been removed; wherein in response to the sensor detecting that the at least one fastener has been removed, the instructions further cause the computing device to transmit an alert indicating that the multi-sensor device has been tampered with.
28. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes: one or more light emitting elements; wherein in response to the sensor detecting that the fastener has been removed, the instructions further cause the computing device to activate the one or more light emitting elements.
29. The security system of claim 1, wherein the dangerous event includes at least one of: a gunshot, a weapon, a fire, a gas leak or other airborne contaminant, a water leak, a suspicious bag, a fight, or vandalism.
30. The security system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the computing device to: identify a danger zone within building premises corresponding to locations within a predetermined threshold distance of the dangerous event; determine a route from a location of one or more occupants to a building exit which avoids the danger zone; and communicate the route to the one or more occupants.
31. The security system of claim 1, wherein the multi-sensor device further includes a speaker and the instructions further cause the computing device to: provide, via the speaker, announcements for a building which includes the multi-sensor device.
32. A gunshot detection system comprising: an acoustic sensor configured to detect sound within a detection area of the gunshot detection system; and a thermal camera configured to detect heat signatures from objects within the detection area, wherein a gunshot is detected in response to detecting a heat signature above a threshold temperature and a sound within a threshold noise level range.
33. The gunshot detection system of claim 32, further comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing instructions thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: compare the sound to the threshold noise level range; compare the heat signature to the threshold temperature; and detect the gunshot in response to determining that the sound is in the threshold noise level range, the heat signature is above the threshold temperature, and the sound and the heat signature are detected within a same time period.
34. The gunshot detection system of claim 32, wherein the threshold noise level range is between 140 and 190 decibels (dB) and the threshold temperature is 200 degrees Celsius.
</claims>
</document>
