<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/02,G01N21/21,G01N21/95,G03F7/20,G06N3/02,H01L21/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRIEDMANN MICHAEL
KUZNETSOV, ALEXANDER
MADSEN, JONATHAN M.
SALCIN, ESEN
SHAUGHNESSY, DERRICK
SHCHEGROV, ANDREI, V.
WANG, DAVID Y.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for co-located metrology
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for performing co-located measurements of semiconductor structures with two or more measurement subsystems are presented herein. To achieve a sufficiently small measurement box size, the metrology system monitors and corrects the alignment of the measurement spot of each metrology subsystem with a metrology target to achieve maximum co-location of the measurement spots of each metrology subsystem with the metrology target. In another aspect, measurements are performed simultaneously by two or more metrology subsystems at high throughput at the same wafer location. Furthermore, the metrology system effectively decouples simultaneously acquired measurement signals associated with each measurement subsystem. This maximizes signal information associated with simultaneous measurements of the same metrology by two or more metrology subsystems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A metrology system comprising: a first metrology subsystem comprising: one or more illumination sources configured to generate a first amount of illumination light; an illumination optics subsystem configured to direct the first amount of illumination light from the one or more illumination sources to a first measurement spot on a surface of a specimen under measurement as a first illumination beam; a collection optics subsystem configured to collect an amount of light from the first measurement spot; and a detector that receives the amount of collected light and generates a first measurement signal indicative of a first measurement of a metrology target disposed on the specimen within the first measurement spot; a second metrology subsystem comprising: one or more illumination sources configured to generate a second amount of illumination light; an illumination optics subsystem configured to direct the second amount of illumination light from the one or more illumination sources to a second measurement spot on the surface of the specimen under measurement as a second illumination beam; a collection optics subsystem configured to collect an amount of light from the second measurement spot; and a detector that receives the amount of collected light and generates a second measurement signal indicative of a second measurement of the metrology target disposed on the specimen within the second measurement spot; and a computing system configured to: receive an indication of a location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem and an indication of a location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, wherein the metrology target is a known metrology target, wherein the indication of the location of the metrology target within the measurement spot of the first subsystem is the first measurement signal, and wherein the indication of the location of the metrology target within the measurement spot of the second subsystem is the second measurement signal; determine a misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both; and communicate control commands to one or more actuators of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that cause a movement of one of more optical elements of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that reduces the misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
2. The metrology system of claim 1, further comprising: a first field imaging device disposed at or near a field image plane of the first metrology subsystem, wherein the field imaging device captures a first field image associated with the first metrology subsystem, wherein the first field image is indicative of the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem; and a second field imaging device disposed at or near a field image plane of the second metrology subsystem, wherein the second field imaging device captures a second field image associated with the second metrology subsystem, wherein the second field image is indicative of the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem.
3. The metrology system of claim 2, wherein the one or more illumination sources of the first metrology subsystem illuminate the metrology target when the first field imaging device captures the first field image; and wherein the one or more illumination devices of the second metrology subsystem illuminate the metrology target when the second field imaging device captures the second field image.
4. The metrology system of claim 2, further comprising: an alignment beam source configured to generate an alignment beam that illuminates the metrology target when the first field imaging device captures the first field image, the second field imaging device captures the second field image, or both.
5. The metrology system of claim 4, wherein the alignment beam source is a laser alignment source.
6. The metrology system of claim 4, wherein the alignment beam is separated from the first illumination beam, the second illumination beam, or both, by wavelength.
7. The metrology system of claim 4, wherein the alignment beam is spatially separated from the first illumination beam, the second illumination beam, or both.
8. The metrology system of claim 4, wherein the alignment beam is temporally separated from the first illumination beam, the second illumination beam, or both.
9. The metrology system of claim 8, wherein the alignment beam is temporally separated from the first illumination beam, the second illumination beam, or both, by optical modulation.
10. (canceled)
11. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the metrology target directs a portion of the first illumination beam to the detector of the second metrology subsystem, and wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, maximizes the second measurement signal detected by the detector of the second metrology subsystem in response to illumination of the metrology target by the first illumination beam.
12. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the computing system is further configured to: estimate the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot based on a trained statistical model of the first measurement of the metrology target; and estimate the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot based on a trained statistical model of the second measurement of the metrology target.
13. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting a location of a field stop of the first metrology subsystem, a field stop of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
14. The metrology system of claim 13, wherein the adjusting of the location of the field stop of the first metrology subsystem is in a direction aligned with a measurement beam passing through the field stop.
15. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting an illumination pupil of the first metrology subsystem, an illumination pupil of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
16. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting a location of a focusing optical element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem in a direction perpendicular to a direction of propagation of the second illumination beam.
17. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a beam splitting element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
18. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of an objective lens located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
19. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a Risley prism located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
20. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the first measurement of the metrology target and the second measurement of the metrology target are performed simultaneously.
21. The metrology system of claim 20, the computing system further configured to: decouple measurement signals associated with the second metrology subsystem from measurement signals associated with the first metrology subsystem detected by the detector of the first metrology subsystem based on a trained deep learning model; and decouple measurement signals associated with the first metrology subsystem from measurement signals associated with the second metrology subsystem detected by the detector of the second metrology subsystem based on the trained deep learning model.
22. The metrology system of claim 20, further comprising: an optical modulator located in a path of the first illumination beam, the optical modulator modulates an intensity of the first illumination beam at a frequency or range of frequencies that is distinct from any modulation of intensity of the second illumination beam; and a filter that removes frequency components from the first measurement signals outside the frequency or range of frequencies associated with the modulation of the intensity of the first illumination beam.
23. The metrology system of claim 22, wherein the optical modulator is any of an optical chopper, a rotating polarizing element in an optical path of the first metrology subsystem, and a pulsed illumination source of the first metrology subsystem.
24. The metrology system of claim 20, further comprising: an optical modulator located in a path of the second illumination beam, the optical modulator modulates an intensity of the second illumination beam at a frequency or range of frequencies that is distinct from any modulation of intensity of the first illumination beam; and a filter that removes frequency components from the second measurement signals outside the frequency or range of frequencies associated with the modulation of the intensity of the second illumination beam.
25. The metrology system of claim 24, wherein the optical modulator is any of an optical chopper, a rotating polarizing element in an optical path of the second metrology subsystem, and a pulsed illumination source of the second metrology subsystem.
26. The metrology system of claim 20, wherein wavelengths of the first illumination beam are distinct from wavelengths of the second illumination beam, the metrology system further comprising: a first optical filter that removes wavelengths from the second measurement signals outside the wavelengths associated with the second illumination beam; and a second optical filter that removes wavelengths from the first measurement signals to remove wavelengths outside the wavelengths associated with the first illumination beam.
27. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the first illumination beam and the second illumination beam each include a range of wavelengths including infrared, visible, and ultraviolet wavelengths.
28. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the computing system is further configured to: generate an estimated value of a parameter of interest of the metrology target based on the first measurement signals and the second measurement signals.
29. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is a reflectometer.
30. The metrology system of claim 29, wherein the reflectometer is an angle resolved reflectometer, and wherein the illumination source of the angle resolved reflectometer is a broadband illumination source, and wherein the second illumination light is broadband illumination light.
31. The metrology system of claim 30, wherein the broadband illumination source of the angle resolved reflectometer is a laser based illumination source.
32. The metrology system of claim 30, the illumination optics of the angle resolved reflectometer, further comprising: one or more narrowband filters configured to filter the second illumination light.
33. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer configured to measure the metrology target at a first azimuth angle, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer configured to measure the metrology target at a second azimuth angle different from the first azimuth angle.
34. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is an imaging based metrology system, a hyperspectral imaging based metrology system, or both.
35. A metrology system comprising: a first metrology subsystem configured to generate a first measurement signal indicative of a first measurement of a metrology target disposed on a specimen within a first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem; a second metrology subsystem configured to generate a second measurement signal indicative of a second measurement of the metrology target disposed on the specimen within a second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem; a first field imaging device disposed at or near a field image plane of the first metrology subsystem, wherein the first field imaging device captures a first field image indicative of the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem; a second field imaging device disposed at or near a field image plane of the second metrology subsystem, wherein the second field imaging device captures a second field image indicative of the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem; and a computing system configured to: communicate control commands to the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that cause an optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that reduces a misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem and the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem.
36. The metrology system of claim 35, further comprising: an alignment beam source configured to generate an alignment beam that illuminates the metrology target when the first field imaging device captures the first field image, the second field imaging device captures the second field image, or both.
37. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting a location of a field stop of the first metrology subsystem, a field stop of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
38. The metrology system of claim 37, wherein the adjusting of the location of the field stop of the first metrology subsystem is in a direction aligned with a measurement beam passing through the field stop.
39. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting an illumination pupil of the first metrology subsystem, an illumination pupil of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
40. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting a location of a focusing optical element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem in a direction perpendicular to a direction of propagation of the second illumination beam.
41. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a beam splitting element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
42. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of an objective lens located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
43. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a Risley prism located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
44. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the first measurement of the metrology target and the second measurement of the metrology target are performed simultaneously.
45. The metrology system of claim 35, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is a reflectometer, an imaging based metrology subsystem, or a hyperspectral imaging based metrology subsystem.
46. A method comprising: generating a first measurement signal indicative of a first measurement of a metrology target disposed on a specimen within a first measurement spot of a first metrology subsystem; generating a second measurement signal indicative of a second measurement of a metrology target disposed on a specimen within a second measurement spot of a second metrology subsystem; estimating a location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot based on a trained statistical model of the first measurement of the metrology target; estimating the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot based on a trained statistical model of the second measurement of the metrology target; determining a misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both; and communicating control commands to one or more actuators of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that cause a movement of one of more optical elements of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that reduces the misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
47. The method of claim 46, further comprising: capturing a first field image associated with the first metrology subsystem, wherein the first field image is indicative of the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem; and capturing a second field image associated with the second metrology subsystem, wherein the second field image is indicative of the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem.
48. The method of claim 47, further comprising: generating an alignment beam that illuminates the metrology target during the capturing of the first field image.
49. The method of claim 46, wherein the metrology target is a known metrology target, wherein the indication of the location of the metrology target within the measurement spot of the first subsystem is the first measurement signal, and wherein the indication of the location of the metrology target within the measurement spot of the second subsystem is the second measurement signal.
50. (canceled)
51. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting a location of a field stop of the first metrology subsystem, a field stop of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
52. The method of claim 51, wherein the adjusting of the location of the field stop of the first metrology subsystem is in a direction aligned with a measurement beam passing through the field stop.
53. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, involves adjusting an illumination pupil of the first metrology subsystem, an illumination pupil of the second metrology subsystem, or both.
54. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting a location of a focusing optical element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
55. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a beam splitting element located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
56. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of an objective lens located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
57. The method of claim 46, wherein the optical adjustment of the second metrology subsystem involves adjusting an orientation of a Risley prism located in a beam path of the second metrology subsystem.
58. The method of claim 46, wherein the first measurement of the metrology target and the second measurement of the metrology target are performed simultaneously.
59. The method of claim 58, further comprising: decoupling measurement signals associated with the second metrology subsystem from measurement signals associated with the first metrology subsystem detected by the detector of the first metrology subsystem based on a trained deep learning model; and decoupling measurement signals associated with the first metrology subsystem from measurement signals associated with the second metrology subsystem detected by the detector of the second metrology subsystem based on the trained deep learning model.
60. The method of claim 58, further comprising: modulating an intensity of a first illumination beam of the first metrology subsystem at a frequency or range of frequencies that is distinct from any modulation of intensity of a second illumination beam of the second metrology subsystem; and filtering frequency components from the first measurement signals outside the frequency or range of frequencies associated with the modulation of the intensity of the first illumination beam.
61. The method of claim 58, further comprising: filtering wavelengths from the second measurement signals outside the wavelengths associated with a second illumination beam of the second metrology subsystem; and filtering wavelengths from the first measurement signals outside the wavelengths associated with a first illumination beam of the first metrology subsystem, wherein wavelengths of the first illumination beam are distinct from wavelengths of the second illumination beam.
62. The method of claim 46, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is a reflectometer.
63. The method of claim 46, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer configured to measure the metrology target at a first azimuth angle, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer configured to measure the metrology target at a second azimuth angle different from the first azimuth angle.
64. The method of claim 46, wherein the first metrology subsystem is a spectroscopic ellipsometer, and wherein the second metrology subsystem is an imaging based metrology system, a hyperspectral imaging subsystem, or both.
65. A metrology system comprising: a first metrology subsystem comprising: one or more illumination sources configured to generate a first amount of illumination light; an illumination optics subsystem configured to direct the first amount of illumination light from the one or more illumination sources to a first measurement spot on a surface of a specimen under measurement as a first illumination beam; a collection optics subsystem configured to collect an amount of light from the first measurement spot; and a detector that receives the amount of collected light and generates a first measurement signal indicative of a first measurement of a metrology target disposed on the specimen within the first measurement spot; a second metrology subsystem comprising: one or more illumination sources configured to generate a second amount of illumination light; an illumination optics subsystem configured to direct the second amount of illumination light from the one or more illumination sources to a second measurement spot on the surface of the specimen under measurement as a second illumination beam; a collection optics subsystem configured to collect an amount of light from the second measurement spot; and a detector that receives the amount of collected light and generates a second measurement signal indicative of a second measurement of the metrology target disposed on the specimen within the second measurement spot; and a computing system configured to: receive an indication of a location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem and an indication of a location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem; determine a misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both; and communicate control commands to one or more actuators of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that cause a movement of one or more optical elements of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, that reduces the misalignment between the location of the metrology target within the first measurement spot of the first metrology subsystem, the location of the metrology target within the second measurement spot of the second metrology subsystem, or both, wherein the metrology target directs a portion of the first illumination beam to the detector of the second metrology subsystem, and wherein the movement of one or more optical elements of the first metrology subsystem, the second metrology subsystem, or both, maximizes the second measurement signal detected by the detector of the second metrology subsystem in response to illumination of the metrology target by the first illumination beam.
</claims>
</document>
