<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C7/00,A61C7/08,G01N33/44,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI CHUNHUA
TANUGULA, ROHIT
SATO JUN
SHIRAZI AGHJARI, REZA
CAI, LUYAO
WANG, YUXIANG
SU, KANGNING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947989
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTION OF ALIGNER PROGRESSIVE DAMAGE USING SIMULATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to an aligner breakage solution that tests progressive damage to an aligner. A method includes gathering a digital model representing an aligner for a dental arch of a patient, and simulating progressive damage to the aligner. Simulating progressive damage for a region of the aligner comprises simulating, using at least the digital model, a sequence of loads on the aligner, determining an amount of damage to the region of the aligner for each load, and after each simulation of a load on the aligner, updating the digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner. The method further includes determining whether a damage criterion is satisfied for at least one region of the aligner and determining whether to implement one or more corrective actions for the aligner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: gathering at least a first digital model representing an aligner for a dental arch of a patient, wherein the aligner comprises a plurality of tooth-receiving cavities, wherein the dental arch comprises a plurality of tooth structures, and wherein each of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities is configured to fit over one of the plurality of tooth structures; simulating progressive damage to the aligner to determine a total amount of damage to each of one or more regions of the aligner, wherein simulating the progressive damage for a region of the aligner comprises: simulating, using at least the first digital model, a sequence of a plurality of loads on the aligner; for each simulation of a load of the plurality of loads on the aligner, determining an amount of damage to the region of the aligner; and after each simulation of the load on the aligner, updating the first digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner; determining whether a damage criterion is satisfied for at least one region of the one or more regions of the aligner based upon the total amount of damage to each of the one or more regions of the aligner; and determining whether to implement one or more corrective actions for the aligner in response to determining whether the damage criterion is satisfied.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein simulating the sequence of the plurality of loads on the aligner comprises simulating, using at least the first digital model, at least one of a) one or more removals of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient, b) one or more placements of the aligner onto the dental arch of the patient, or c) one or more chewing loads on the aligner.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: gathering a second digital model representing the dental arch of the patient; and simulating an interaction of the aligner to the dental arch using the first digital model and the second digital model; wherein the simulating of the removal of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient is performed using the first digital model and the second digital model.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the first digital model of the aligner further comprises a plurality of interproximal regions, wherein each interproximal region of the plurality of interproximal regions separates a tooth-receiving cavity of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities from an adjacent tooth-receiving cavity of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities, and wherein simulating the removal of the aligner from the dental arch comprises: analyzing one or more interproximal regions of the plurality of interproximal regions of the aligner, wherein analyzing an interproximal region of the plurality of interproximal regions comprises simulating application of a load around the interproximal region.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: gathering a second digital model representing the dental arch of the patient; and gathering a third digital model representing an opposing dental arch of the patient; wherein simulating a chewing load of the one or more chewing loads on the aligner comprises: applying the chewing load to one or more points on the third digital model to compress the first digital model of the aligner between the second digital model of the dental arch and the third digital model of the opposing dental arch; and measuring a strain to the region of the aligner.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the amount of damage to the region of the aligner comprises: determining a strain at the region of the aligner; and determining a first portion of the strain that represents elastic strain at the region and a second portion of the strain that represents plastic strain at the region, wherein an amount of the plastic strain at the region corresponds to the amount of damage at the region.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein updating the first digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner comprises adding the amount of the plastic strain at the region to the first digital model of the aligner, wherein the total amount of damage at the region corresponds to a cumulative amount of plastic strain at the region from the simulating of the plurality of loads on the aligner.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining whether the damage criterion is satisfied for the at least one region comprises determining whether the cumulative amount of plastic strain at the at least one region exceeds a plastic strain threshold.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the at least one region comprises a probable point of damage responsive to determining that the damage criterion is satisfied for the at least one region.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: responsive to determining that the aligner comprises the probable point of damage, selecting for the aligner a manufacturing flow for aligners comprising one or more probable points of damage.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: responsive to determining that the aligner comprises the probable point of damage, implementing one or more corrective actions for the aligner.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein implementing the one or more corrective actions comprises modifying the first digital model of the aligner to generate a modified digital model of the aligner.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first digital model of the aligner was generated based on a second digital model of the dental arch, and wherein modifying the first digital model of the aligner comprises one or more of: modifying a cutline radius of the first digital model of the aligner; modifying a thickness of a portion of the first digital model of the aligner; modifying a geometry of the first digital model of the aligner; inserting an indicator in the first digital model of the aligner, wherein the indicator represents a recommended place to begin removing the aligner from a mold of the dental arch; generating a first modified digital model of the dental arch by modifying one or more attachments on one or more teeth in the second digital model of the dental arch, and generating the modified digital model of the aligner based on the first modified digital model of the dental arch; or generating a second modified digital model of the dental arch by adding or modifying a virtual filler at a location on the second digital model of the dental arch, and generating the modified digital model of the aligner based on the second modified digital model of the dental arch.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining material property information for a material to be used to manufacture the aligner, wherein simulating a removal of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient is performed using at least the first digital model, the material property information and a load applied at the region for the removal of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient.
15. A computing device comprising: a data store to store at least a first digital model representing an aligner for a dental arch of a patient, wherein the aligner comprises a plurality of tooth-receiving cavities, wherein the dental arch comprises a plurality of tooth structures, and wherein each of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities is configured to fit over one of the plurality of tooth structures; and a processing device operatively coupled to the data store, the processing device to: gather at least the first digital model from the data store; simulate progressive damage to the aligner to determine a total amount of damage to each of one or more regions of the aligner, wherein simulating the progressive damage for a region of the aligner comprises: simulating, using at least the first digital model, a sequence of a plurality of loads on the aligner; for each simulation of a load of the plurality of loads on the aligner, determining an amount of damage to the region of the aligner; and after each simulation of the load on the aligner, updating the first digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner; determine whether a damage criterion is satisfied for at least one region of the one or more regions of the aligner based upon the total amount of damage to each of the one or more regions of the aligner; and determine whether to implement one or more corrective actions for the aligner in response to determining whether the damage criterion is satisfied.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein simulating the sequence of the plurality of loads on the aligner comprises simulating, using at least the first digital model, at least one of a) one or more removals of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient, b) one or more placements of the aligner onto the dental arch of the patient, or c) one or more chewing loads on the aligner.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein the processing device is further to: gather a second digital model representing the dental arch of the patient; and simulate an interaction of the aligner to the dental arch using the first digital model and the second digital model; wherein the simulating of the removal of the aligner from the dental arch of the patient is performed using the first digital model and the second digital model.
18. The computing device of claim 16, wherein the first digital model of the aligner further comprises a plurality of interproximal regions, wherein each interproximal region of the plurality of interproximal regions separates a tooth-receiving cavity of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities from an adjacent tooth-receiving cavity of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities, and wherein simulating the removal of the aligner from the dental arch comprises: analyzing one or more interproximal regions of the plurality of interproximal regions of the aligner, wherein analyzing an interproximal region of the plurality of interproximal regions comprises simulating application of a load around the interproximal region.
19. The computing device of claim 16, wherein the processing device is further to: gather a second digital model representing the dental arch of the patient; and gather a third digital model representing an opposing dental arch of the patient; wherein simulating a chewing load of the one or more chewing loads on the aligner comprises: applying the chewing load to one or more points on the third digital model to compress the first digital model of the aligner between the second digital model of the dental arch and the third digital model of the opposing dental arch; and measuring a strain to the region of the dental arch.
20. The computing device of claim 15, wherein determining the amount of damage to the region of the aligner comprises: determining a strain at the region of the aligner; and determining a first portion of the strain that represents elastic strain at the region and a second portion of the strain that represents plastic strain at the region, wherein an amount of the plastic strain at the region corresponds to the amount of damage at the region.
21. The computing device of claim 20, wherein updating the first digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner comprises adding the amount of the plastic strain at the region to the first digital model of the aligner, wherein the total amount of damage at the region corresponds to a cumulative amount of plastic strain at the region from the simulating of the plurality of loads on the aligner.
22. The computing device of claim 21, wherein determining whether the damage criterion is satisfied for the at least one region comprises determining whether the cumulative amount of plastic strain at the at least one region exceeds a plastic strain threshold.
23. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further to: determine that the at least one region comprises a probable point of damage responsive to determining that the damage criterion is satisfied for the at least one region; and implement one or more corrective actions for the aligner.
24. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations comprising: gathering at least a first digital model representing an aligner for a dental arch of a patient, wherein the aligner comprises a plurality of tooth-receiving cavities, wherein the dental arch comprises a plurality of tooth structures, and wherein each of the plurality of tooth-receiving cavities is configured to fit over one of the plurality of tooth structures; simulating progressive damage to the aligner to determine a total amount of damage to each of one or more regions of the aligner, wherein simulating the progressive damage for a region of the aligner comprises: simulating, using at least the first digital model, a sequence of a plurality of loads on the aligner; for each simulation of a load of the plurality of loads on the aligner, determining an amount of damage to the region of the aligner; and after each simulation of the load on the aligner, updating the first digital model based on the amount of damage to the region of the aligner; determining whether a damage criterion is satisfied for at least one region of the one or more regions of the aligner based upon the total amount of damage to each of the one or more regions of the aligner; and determining whether to implement one or more corrective actions for the aligner in response to determining whether the damage criterion is satisfied.
</claims>
</document>
