<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSTON, JAY KEMPER
MORTENSEN, MAGNUS
WHITE, JR., DAVID C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190571
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK ISSUE TRACKING AND RESOLUTION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, an issue analysis service determines that an issue exists with a device in a network. The service searches a decision tree for a solution to the issue, wherein branch nodes of the decision tree comprise diagnostic checks. The service clusters, based on a determination that a solution to the issue does not exist in the decision tree, telemetry for the device with telemetry for one or more other devices that also experienced the issue. The service uses a neural network to identify a difference between the clustered telemetry and telemetry from one or more devices for which the issue was resolved. The service adds a leaf node to the decision tree with the identified difference as a solution to the issue.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by an issue analysis service, that an issue exists with a device in a network; searching, by the issue analysis service, a decision tree for a solution to the issue, wherein branch nodes of the decision tree comprise diagnostic checks; clustering, by the issue analysis service and based on a determination that a solution to the issue does not exist in the decision tree, telemetry for the device with telemetry for one or more other devices that also experienced the issue; using, by the issue analysis service, a neural network to identify a difference between the clustered telemetry and telemetry from one or more devices for which the issue was resolved; and adding, by the issue analysis service, a leaf node to the decision tree with the identified difference as a solution to the issue.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device comprises a router or switch.
3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: augmenting the telemetry for the device with derived metadata.
4. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: identifying a failure in the network; forming sets of telemetry from devices in the network, each set corresponding to a different window of time prior to the failure; and identifying one or more changes in traits of the sets of telemetry.
5. The method as in claim 4, further comprising: sending a report to a user interface indicative of the one or more changes in the traits of the sets of telemetry.
6. The method as in claim 4, further comprising: determining that the failure in the network is a significant failure; identifying one or more issues in the network that were unresolved before the failure; and associating the failure with the one or more unresolved issues as an impact of the one or more unresolved issues.
7. The method as in claim 6, further comprising: providing the impact in conjunction with an alert to a user interface regarding the one or more unresolved issues.
8. The method as in claim 6, wherein associating the failure with the one or more unresolved issues as an impact of the one or more unresolved issues comprises: applying a machine learning model to the unresolved issues.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: determine that an issue exists with a device in a network; search a decision tree for a solution to the issue, wherein branch nodes of the decision tree comprise diagnostic checks; cluster, based on a determination that a solution to the issue does not exist in the decision tree, telemetry for the device with telemetry for one or more other devices that also experienced the issue; use a neural network to identify a difference between the clustered telemetry and telemetry from one or more devices for which the issue was resolved; and add a leaf node to the decision tree with the identified difference as a solution to the issue.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: use the decision tree with the added leaf node to determine a solution to a previously-identified issue in the network.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: augment the telemetry for the device with derived metadata.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: identify a failure in the network; form sets of telemetry from devices in the network, each set corresponding to a different window of time prior to the failure; and identify one or more changes in traits of the sets of telemetry.
13. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: send a report to a user interface indicative of the one or more changes in the traits of the sets of telemetry.
14. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: determine that the failure in the network is a significant failure; identify one or more issues in the network that were unresolved before the failure; and associate the failure with the one or more unresolved issues as an impact of the one or more unresolved issues.
15. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: providing the impact in conjunction with an alert to a user interface regarding the one or more unresolved issues.
16. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the apparatus associates the failure with the one or more unresolved issues as an impact of the one or more unresolved issues by: applying a machine learning model to the unresolved issues.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause an issue analysis service to execute a process comprising: determining, by the issue analysis service, that an issue exists with a device in a network; searching, by the issue analysis service, a decision tree for a solution to the issue, wherein branch nodes of the decision tree comprise diagnostic checks; clustering, by the issue analysis service and based on a determination that a solution to the issue does not exist in the decision tree, telemetry for the device with telemetry for one or more other devices that also experienced the issue; using, by the issue analysis service, a neural network to identify a difference between the clustered telemetry and telemetry from one or more devices for which the issue was resolved; and adding, by the issue analysis service, a leaf node to the decision tree with the identified difference as a solution to the issue.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the device comprises a router or switch.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the process further comprises: augmenting the telemetry for the device with derived metadata.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the process further comprises: identifying a failure in the network; forming sets of telemetry from devices in the network, each set corresponding to a different window of time prior to the failure; and identifying one or more changes in traits of the sets of telemetry.
</claims>
</document>
