<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PRISMO SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VENKATRAMANI, ANJAN
CHAO, CHIHWEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58799934
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Detecting and Responding to Security Threats Using Application Execution and Connection Lineage Tracing
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for detecting and responding to security threats using application execution and connection lineage tracing in accordance with embodiments of the invention are disclosed. In one embodiment, a process for detecting suspicious activity in a network and in a computer server system includes receiving at a collector server a first piece of activity data including a first set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value, combining a first set of context information with the first piece of activity data to generate a first activity record, comparing the first activity record to a set of baseline signatures, where each baseline signature includes a second set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value and each baseline signature being unique in the combination of values of its attributes, incrementing a count of a first matching baseline signature from the set of baseline signatures when the first activity record has the same values for all attributes in the first matching baseline signature, receiving from a second connection and application execution sensor a second piece of activity data including a third set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value, combining, a second set of context information with the second piece of activity data to generate a second activity record, and generating an alert when the values of the attributes of the second activity record differ from all baseline signatures in the set of baseline signatures by at least a predetermined threshold number of attributes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A process for detecting suspicious activity in a network and in a computer server system, comprising: receiving at a collector server, from a first connection and application execution sensor, a first piece of activity data comprising a first set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value; combining, using the collector server, a first set of context information with the first piece of activity data to generate a first activity record; comparing, using the collector server, the first activity record to a set of baseline signatures, where each baseline signature comprises a second set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value and each baseline signature being unique in the combination of values of its attributes; incrementing, using the collector server, a count of a first matching baseline signature from the set of baseline signatures when the first activity record has the same values for all attributes in the first matching baseline signature; receiving at a collector server, from a second connection and application execution sensor, a second piece of activity data comprising a third set of attributes, each attribute having a particular value; combining, using the collector server, a second set of context information with the second piece of activity data to generate a second activity record; and generating, using the collector server, an alert when the values of the attributes of the second activity record differ from all baseline signatures in the set of baseline signatures by at least a predetermined threshold number of attributes.
2. The process of claim 1, further comprising storing the first activity record in a connection and application execution database as a record that includes: a reference to the first matching baseline signature; and values of attributes other than common attributes present in both the first activity record and the first matching baseline signature.
3. The process of claim 1, wherein associating, using the collector server, a first set of context information with the first piece of activity data comprises: looking up an IP address within the first piece activity data with an identity manager service to identify an associated entity.
4. The process of claim 1, wherein the first piece of activity data includes connection information concerning communication on a device.
5. The process of claim 4, wherein the connection information includes the attributes of: user name initiating the communication, identification of the user device, responding application name, responding server name, login ID to responding server, tunnel endpoint IP, and VPN gateway server.
6. The process of claim 4, wherein the connection information is a session chain representing the activity of a particular user identity across different servers.
7. The process of claim 1, wherein the first piece of activity data includes application execution information concerning an executing application on a device.
8. The process of claim 7, wherein the application execution information includes the attributes of: server name, application name, executable image path name, interpreter script name, system user ID, command line, current working directory, and process start time.
9. The process of claim 8, wherein the application execution information further includes the attributes of: session signature ID, session signature chain ID, and parent application.
10. The process of claim 7, wherein the application execution information includes the attributes of: server name, file path name, system user ID, application name, and file access mode.
11. The process of claim 10, wherein the application execution information further includes the attributes of: session signature ID and session signature chain ID.
12. The process of claim 7, wherein the application execution information includes a stack trace of an executing application.
13. The process of claim 1, wherein the first connection and application execution sensor is dynamically configurable.
14. The process of claim 1, further comprising highlighting within a user interface for review a reduced set of baseline signatures having a count below a predetermined threshold.
15. The process of claim 1, further comprising highlighting within a user interface for review a reduced set of baseline signatures unique to an entity within a group of entities to which the entity belongs.
16. The process of claim 1, further comprising highlighting within a user interface for review a reduced set of baseline signatures based upon a security policy.
17. The process of claim 1, further comprising monitoring user logins, privileges used by logged in users, process and file creations, and process and file executions on the first connection and application execution sensor to detect a compromise of the sensor.
18. The process of claim 1, wherein the first connection and application execution sensor is implemented using a hardware co-processor on a device.
19. The process of claim 1, further comprising searching for and retrieving the first activity record in response to a user instruction.
20. The process of claim 1, wherein the alert comprises one or more closest matching baseline signatures to the second activity record.
</claims>
</document>
