<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C10G7/00,G01J3/28,G01N21/3577,G01N21/359,G01N33/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOSEOGLU, OMER, REFA
INAN, TULAY Y.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69160251
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETERMINING THE COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF HYDROCARBON FRACTIONS BY SPECTROSCOPY OR SPECTROMETRY
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to a system and method for the evaluation of samples of a distillate fraction by spectroscopic analysis, followed by the application of chemometrics software to determine physical characteristics of the fraction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for evaluating a sample of a distillate fraction and determining at least one property or composition of the distillate fraction, the system comprising: a spectrometer that performs a spectrographic analysis of the sample, the spectrometer being a selected one of (i) a near infrared (NIR) spectrometer, (ii) a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer, (iii) a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer, (iv) an ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) spectrometer, (v) a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), (vi) a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS), (vii) a laser inducted UV spectrometer, and (viii) a fluorescence spectrometer; a non-volatile memory device that stores software program modules and data, the data including spectroscopic data as derived by the analysis of the sample by the spectrometer; a processor coupled to the non-volatile memory device; a first software program module that is stored in the non-volatile memory device and that is executed by the processor, the first software module predicting values of at least two compositional variables of the sample from the spectroscopic data, and storing the predicted values of the compositional variables into the non-volatile memory device, wherein the at least two compositional variables are selected from (i) paraffins, (ii) naphthenes, and (iii) aromatics; a second software program module that is stored in the non-volatile memory device and that is executed by the processor, the second software program module using chemometrics to analyze the at least two compositional variables predicted by the first software program module and to predict a value by correlation of the at least one property or composition, wherein the at least one property is selected of (i) density, (ii) refractive index, (iii) viscosity at 40° C., (iv) cetane number, (v) cetane index, (vi) distillation, (vii) octane number, (viii) cloud point, (ix) pour point, and (x) aniline point, and wherein the at least one composition is selected of (i) hydrogen, (ii) carbon, (iii) paraffins, (iv) naphthenes, and (v) aromatics; and wherein the second software program module will store the predicted value of the at least one property or composition into the non-volatile memory device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a near infrared (NIR) spectrometer, and the wavenumber of the spectrum is in the range of 4,000-12,821 cm−1.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer, and the wavelength is in the range of 650-2000 cm−1.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer, that is carbonor hydrogen-based.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is an ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) spectrometer, and the wavelength is in the range of 220-900 nm.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), covering masses in the range of 150-1400 m/z.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), covering carbon numbers in the range 1-60.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS), operating at 5-20 kHz repetition rates.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the spectrometer is a fluorescence spectrometer, with a wavelength in the range of 250-800 nm.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the distillate fraction is a selected one of (i) raw petroleum, (ii) processed petroleum, (iii) coal, (iv) coal liquid, (v) biomaterials, and (vi) synthetic crude oil.
11. A method for evaluating a sample of a distillate fraction and determining at least one property or composition of the distillate fraction, the method comprising: providing a spectrometer, being a selected one of (i) a near infrared (NIR) spectrometer, (ii) a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer, (iii) a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer, (iv) an ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) spectrometer, (v) a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), (vi) a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS), (vii) a laser inducted UV spectrometer, and (viii) a fluorescence spectrometer; providing a non-volatile memory device that stores software program modules and data, including at least a first software program module and a second software program module; providing a processor coupled to the non-volatile memory device; conducing a spectrographic analysis of the sample by the spectrometer; executing the first software program module by the processor to predict values of at least two compositional variables of the sample from the spectroscopic data, and storing the predicted values of the at least two compositional variables into the non-volatile memory device, wherein the at least two compositional variables are selected from (i) paraffins, (ii) naphthenes, and (iii) aromatics; executing the second software program module by the processor to use chemometrics to analyze the at least two compositional variables predicted by the first software program module and to predict a value by correlation of the at least one property or composition, and storing the predicted value of the at least one property or composition into the non-volatile memory device, wherein the at least one of the properties are selected of (i) density, (ii) refractive index, (iii) viscosity at 40° C., (iv) cetane number, (v) cetane index, (vi) distillation, (vii) octane number, (viii) cloud point, (ix) pour point, and (x) aniline point, and the at least one of the compositions selected of (i) hydrogen, (ii) carbon, (iii) paraffins, (iv) naphthenes, and (v) aromatics.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a near infrared (NIR) spectrometer, and the wavenumber of the spectrum is in the range of 4,000-12,821 cm−1.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectrometer, and the wavelength is in the range of 650-2000 cm−1.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectrometer, that is carbonor hydrogen-based.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is an ultraviolet visible (UV-Vis) spectrometer, and the wavelength is in the range of 220-900 nm.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), covering masses in the range of 150-1400 m/z.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a Fourier transform-ion cyclotron-mass spectrometer (FT-ICR MS), covering carbon numbers in the range 1-60.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a time-of-flight mass spectrometer (TOF-MS), operating at 5-20 kHz repetition rates.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the spectrometer is a fluorescence spectrometer, with a wavelength in the range of 250-800 nm.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the distillate fraction is a selected one of (i) raw petroleum, (ii) processed petroleum, (iii) coal, (iv) coal liquid, (v) biomaterials, and (vi) synthetic crude oil.
</claims>
</document>
