<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M5/00,G02B27/00,G02B27/01,G06F30/13
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIDDLE CHART
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUFF, JASON E.
SANTARONE, MICHAEL S.
WODRICH, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66245454
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Monitoring a condition within a structure
</title>

<abstract>
Method and apparatus for measuring physiological conditions within a structure to generate a user interface with a representation of the physiological state from a vantage point and according to a direction of interest. Physiological data is generated by a sensor a human and a position of the human is determined via wireless communications with multiple reference point transceivers. An augmented virtual model viewing interface is generated with positional coordinates and physiological conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of monitoring a human physiological condition in a structure, the method comprising the steps of: a) fixedly positioning two or more wireless transceivers to reference positions within the structure; b) positioning a first sensor comprising a biosensor on a human occupant of the structure, said first sensor capable of wireless communication with the two or more wireless transceivers, said first sensor operative to generate empirical data of a physiological condition of the human occupant; c) wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time; d) generating a first set of positional coordinates for the first sensor based upon the data set, the set of positional coordinates comprising a first angular coordinate and a distance at a first time (T1); e) with the first sensor, generating empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at the first time (T1); f) with the first sensor, generating empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time (T2); g) wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a second data set comprising a second transmission time and a second receipt time; h) generating a second set of positional coordinates for the first sensor based upon the second data set, the second set of positional coordinates comprising a second angular coordinate and a distance at T2; i) operating a controller to compare the physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at T1 with the physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at T2; h) operating the controller to determine whether the physiological condition in the structure at T1 is present at T2; and j) generating an augmented virtual model viewing interface comprising the first set of positional coordinates and the second set of position coordinates and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a first time and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time.
2. The method of claim 1 additionally comprising the steps of: generating a user interface comprising As Built Data in an Augmented Virtual Model (AVM); displaying in the AVM at least one of the first set of positional coordinates and the second set of position coordinates, and at least one of the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a first time, and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time; and presenting the user interface on a smart device.
3. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the step of displaying on the user interface a virtual representation of an area viewable from a vantage point of the smart device in a direction of interest.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time comprises communicating using a bandwidth of wavelengths between 6.765 MHz and 246 GHz.
5. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time comprises communicating using WiFi.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time comprises communicating using Ultra-Wideband.
7. The method of claim 2 wherein the step of wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time comprises communicating using a Bluetooth communication.
8. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the step of communicating a transmission based upon one or both of the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a T1 and of the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at T2.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of communicating the transmission comprises a communicating using a bandwidth of wavelengths between 6.765 MHz and 246 GHz.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of communicating the transmission comprises a communicating using a Bluetooth communication.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of communicating the transmission comprises a WiFi communication.
12. The method of claim 8 wherein the step of communicating the transmission comprises an Ultra-Wideband communication.
13. The method of claim 6 wherein the first angular coordinate is a polar angle.
14. The method of claim 6 wherein the first angular coordinate is an azimuthal angle.
15. The method of claim 7 wherein the first angular coordinate is a polar angle, and the set of positional coordinates further comprise an azimuthal angle.
16. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the step of displaying on the user interface a virtual representation of an area viewable from a vantage point of the smart device in a direction of interest quantified with a magnetic directional indicator.
17. The method of claim 2 additionally comprising the step of displaying on the user interface a virtual representation of an area viewable from a vantage point of the smart device in a direction of interest determined, at least in part via an accelerometer.
18. A method of monitoring human physiological condition in a structure, the method comprising the steps of: a) fixedly positioning two or more wireless transceivers to reference positions within the structure; b) positioning a first sensor comprising a biosensor on a human occupant of the structure, said first sensor capable of wireless communication with the two or more wireless transceivers, said first sensor operative to generate empirical data of a physiological condition of the human occupant; c) wirelessly communicating via ultra-wideband between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a first data set comprising a first transmission time and a first receipt time; d) generating a first set of positional coordinates for the first sensor based upon the first data set, the set of positional coordinates comprising Cartesian Coordinates at a first time (T1); e) with the first sensor, generating empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at the first time (T1); f) with the first sensor, generating empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time (T2); g) wirelessly communicating between the two or more wireless transceivers and the first sensor to generate a second data set comprising a second transmission time and a second receipt time; h) generating a second set of positional coordinates for the first sensor based upon the second data set, the second set of positional coordinates comprising Cartesian Coordinates at T2; i) operating a controller to compare the physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at T1 with the physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at T2; h) operating the controller to determine whether the physiological condition in the structure at T1 is present at T2; and j) generating an augmented virtual model viewing interface comprising the first set of positional coordinates and the second set of position coordinates and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a first time and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time.
19. The method of claim 18 additionally comprising the steps of: generating a user interface comprising As Built Data in an Augmented Virtual Model (AVM); displaying in the AVM at least one of the first set of positional coordinates and the second set of position coordinates, and at least one of the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a first time, and the empirical data quantifying a physiological condition of the human occupant in the structure at a second time; and presenting the user interface on a smart device.
20. The method of claim 19 additionally comprising the step of displaying on the user interface a virtual representation of an area viewable from a vantage point of the smart device in a direction of interest.
</claims>
</document>
