<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, SUSHANT
ACHAN, KANNAN
MOTWANI, KAMIYA
KORPEOGLU, Evren
RUAN, Chuanwei
XU, Da
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550407
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS FOR ITEM SUBSTITUTION
</title>

<abstract>
This application relates to apparatus and methods for automatically identifying substitute items. A computing device can generate matrix data that identifies connection values between a plurality of items. The matrix data may be generated based on the application of one or more machine learning algorithms to historical data identifying accepted or denied item substitutions. The computing device may then receive item data identifying at least one second item and at least one attribute of that second item. The computing device may generate a graph based on the matrix data and the item data to determine connection values between the second item and the plurality of first items. The computing device may then determine a substitute item (e.g., a replacement item) for the second item based on the connection values between the second item and the plurality of first items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a computing device configured to: obtain matrix data identifying connection values between a plurality of first items; receive item data identifying at least one second item and at least one attribute of the at least one second item; generate a graph based on the matrix data and the item data to determine at least one connection value between the at least one second item and at least one of the plurality of first items; and determine at least one substitute item for the at least one second item based on the at least one connection value between the at least one second item and the at least one of the plurality of first items.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the graph comprises treating the item data as connected to each of the plurality of first items with a same connection value.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device is configured to: generate a ranking list based on the determined connection values; determine the at least one substitute item based on the generated ranking list; and transmit data identifying the at least one substitute item.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device is configured to: receive item substitution data identifying the acceptance or denial of substituted items for the plurality of first items; generate attribute matrix data identifying at least one attribute for each of the substituted items and the plurality of first items; and generate the matrix data identifying the connection values between the plurality of first items based on the attribute matrix data.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein generating the matrix data comprise executing one or more machine learning algorithms to the item substitution data and the attribute matrix data to identify the connection values.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing device is configured to: receive a request for a substitute item for the at least one second item; and transmit, in response to the request, data identifying the at least one substitution item.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the graph comprises: determining probabilities according to p0i(1:ii+1|A≤i,X≤i)=pØ(1:i|Ã≤i+1,X≤i+1), wherein the at least one connection value is one of the determined probabilities.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein generating the graph comprises: determining a minimum loss based on a loss function according to determining at least one weight to apply based on the minimum loss; and applying the at least one weight.
9. A method comprising: obtaining matrix data identifying connection values between a plurality of first items; receiving item data identifying at least one second item and at least one attribute of the at least one second item; generating a graph based on the matrix data and the item data to determine at least one connection value between the at least one second item and at least one of the plurality of first items; and determining at least one substitute item for the at least one second item based on the at least one connection value between the at least one second item and the at least one of the plurality of first items.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein generating the graph comprises treating the item data as connected to each of the plurality of first items with a same connection value.
11. The method of claim 9 comprising: generating a ranking list based on the determined connection values; determining the at least one substitute item based on the generated ranking list; and transmitting data identifying the at least one substitute item.
12. The method of claim 9 comprising: receiving item substitution data identifying the acceptance or denial of substituted items for the plurality of first items; generating attribute matrix data identifying at least one attribute for each of the substituted items and the plurality of first items; and generating the matrix data identifying the connection values between the plurality of first items based on the attribute matrix data.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein generating the matrix data comprises executing one or more machine learning algorithms to the item substitution data and the attribute matrix data to identify the connection values.
14. The method of claim 9 comprising: receiving a request for a substitute item for the at least one second item; and transmitting, in response to the request, data identifying the at least one substitution item.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed by at least one processor, cause a device to perform operations comprising: obtaining matrix data identifying connection values between a plurality of first items; receiving item data identifying at least one second item and at least one attribute of the at least one second item; generating a graph based on the matrix data and the item data to determine at least one connection value between the at least one second item and at least one of the plurality of first items; and determining at least one substitute item for the at least one second item based on the at least one connection value between the at least one second item and the at least one of the plurality of first items.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising: generating the graph by treating the item data to be connected to each of the plurality of first items with a same connection value.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising: generating a ranking list based on the determined connection values; determining the at least one substitute item based on the generated ranking list; and transmitting data identifying the at least one substitute item.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising: receiving item substitution data identifying the acceptance or denial of substituted items for the plurality of first items; generating attribute matrix data identifying at least one attribute for each of the substituted items and the plurality of first items; and generating the matrix data identifying the connection values between the plurality of first items based on the attribute matrix data.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising executing one or more machine learning algorithms to the item substitution data and the attribute matrix data to identify the connection values.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 19 further comprising instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, further cause the device to perform operations comprising: receiving a request for a substitute item for the at least one second item; and transmitting, in response to the request, data identifying the at least one substitution item.
</claims>
</document>
