<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L19/005
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KWATRA, SHIKHAR
NYOTA, TIMOTHY
OGEGA, VIOLETTE
ONDULA, ELIZABETH
WAMBUGU, ISAAC WAWERU
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772531
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAINTAINING VOICE CONVERSATION CONTINUITY
</title>

<abstract>
An inventive system includes a first electronic device, such as a cellular phone, that implements a method of detecting a voice conversation via the first electronic device; detecting an interruption of continuity of the voice conversation; and adapting operation of the first electronic device to maintain the continuity of the voice conversation. For example, adapting operation of the first electronic device may include auto-completing the voice conversation during the interruption of continuity. As another example, adapting operation of the first electronic device may include generating a text summary of the voice conversation during the interruption of continuity by activating a speech-to-text function and then transmitting to a second electronic device an electronic signal encoding the text summary. The method may include detecting a level of importance of the voice conversation by identifying a topic of the voice conversation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting a voice conversation via a first electronic device; detecting an interruption of continuity of the voice conversation; and adapting operation of the first electronic device to maintain the continuity of the voice conversation.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising detecting a level of importance of the voice conversation by identifying a topic of the voice conversation, using natural language processing.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising adapting operation of the first electronic device only in case the level of importance of the voice conversation exceeds a threshold level.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the voice conversation is between the first electronic device and a second electronic device, and detecting the interruption of continuity includes comparing, at the first electronic device, an electronic signal produced by the first electronic device to an electronic signal echoed by the second electronic device.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the voice conversation is between the first electronic device and a second electronic device, and detecting the interruption of continuity includes comparing, at the second electronic device, audio produced by the second electronic device to audio detected by the second electronic device.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, recording audio received by the first electronic device during the interruption of continuity and, by the first electronic device, after the interruption of continuity, transmitting to a second electronic device an electronic signal encoding the audio received during the interruption of continuity.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, generating a text summary of the voice conversation during the interruption of continuity by activating a speech-to-text function, and then, by the first electronic device, transmitting to a second electronic device an electronic signal encoding the text summary.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein the first electronic device transmits the electronic signal encoding the text summary during the interruption of continuity.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, auto-completing continuity of an audio stream transmitted to the first electronic device from a second electronic device via a connection with dropped packets.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying computer executable instructions which when executed by a computer cause the computer to facilitate the method of: detecting a voice conversation via a first electronic device; detecting an interruption of continuity of the voice conversation; and adapting operation of the first electronic device to maintain the continuity of the voice conversation.
11. The computer readable medium of claim 10, the method further comprising detecting a level of importance of the voice conversation by identifying a topic of the voice conversation, using natural language processing.
12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the method further comprising adapting operation of the first electronic device only in case the level of importance of the voice conversation exceeds a threshold level.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 10 wherein the voice conversation is between the first electronic device and a second electronic device, and detecting the interruption of continuity includes comparing, at the first electronic device, an electronic signal produced by the first electronic device to an electronic signal echoed by the second electronic device.
14. The computer readable medium of claim 10 wherein the voice conversation is between the first electronic device and a second electronic device, and detecting the interruption of continuity includes comparing, at the second electronic device, audio produced by the second electronic device to audio detected by the second electronic device.
15. The computer readable medium of claim 10 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, recording audio received by the first electronic device during the interruption of continuity and, by the first electronic device, after the interruption of continuity, transmitting to a second electronic device an electronic signal encoding the audio received during the interruption of continuity.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 10 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, generating a text summary of the voice conversation during the interruption of continuity by activating a speech-to-text function, and then, by the first electronic device, transmitting to a second electronic device an electronic signal encoding the text summary.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 16 wherein the first electronic device transmits the electronic signal encoding the text summary during the interruption of continuity.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 10 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, auto-completing continuity of an audio stream transmitted to the first electronic device from a second electronic device via a connection with dropped packets.
19. An apparatus comprising: a memory embodying computer executable instructions; and at least one processor, coupled to the memory, and operative by the computer executable instructions to facilitate a method of: detecting a voice conversation via a first electronic device; detecting an interruption of continuity of the voice conversation; and adapting operation of the first electronic device to maintain the continuity of the voice conversation.
20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein adapting operation of the first electronic device includes, at the first electronic device, auto-completing continuity of an audio stream transmitted to the first electronic device from a second electronic device via a connection with dropped packets.
</claims>
</document>
