<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/44,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSBORN, KEVIN
WURMFELD, DAVID KELLY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68466122
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-BASED SYSTEMS AND COMPUTING DEVICES CONFIGURED TO UTILIZE ONE OR MORE AUTHENTICATION SERVERS FOR SECURING DEVICE COMMANDS TRANSMISSIONS AND METHODS OF USE THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, securing device commands includes a first electronic device receiving a command authorization request message from a second electronic device, including a device command to be performed by the second electronic device, a command argument, and a first message authentication code (MAC) generated by applying a hash function to the device command, the command argument and a first counter value. The first electronic device generates a second MAC by applying the hash function to the device command, the command argument and a second counter value synchronized with the first counter value. The first electronic device compares the first MAC and the second MAC to authenticate the device command and transmit a command approval message or a command denial message. The command approval message causes the second electronic device to perform the device command and the command denial message causes the second electronic device to reject the device command.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for securing device commands, the method comprising: receiving, by a first electronic device, a command authorization request message having non-reusable hashing from a second electronic device, comprising: i) at least one first message authentication code (MAC), ii) at least one device command, and iii) at least one command argument; wherein the at least one device command is a respective command to be performed by the second electronic device; wherein the at least one first MAC has been generated by applying a one-way hash function to a first hash input to produce the non-reusable hashing; wherein the first hash input comprises at least one first counter value; generating, by the first electronic device, at least one second counter value based on a current time associated with receiving the command authorization request message; generating, by the first electronic device, at least one second MAC by applying the one-way hash function to a second hash input to reproduce the non-reusable hashing; wherein the second hash input comprises the at least one second counter value; wherein the at least one second counter value being based on the current time results in the non-reusable hashing of the command authorization request message being expired at a later time such that each MAC generated by the one-way hash function for every message is unique; and comparing, by the first electronic device, the at least one first MAC and the at least one second MAC to authenticate the at least one device command.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising decrypting the command authorization request message.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising encrypting the device command and the at least one command argument before generating the at least one first MAC.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising using the at least one first counter value as a hash key for the one-way hash function.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising using the at least one second counter value as a hash key for the one-way hash function.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising using a shared hash key shared between the first electronic device and the second electronic device for applying the one-way hash function.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising generating, by a second electronic device, the at least one first counter value based on a time associated with sending the command authorization request message.
8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein: the at least one first counter value comprises a first time stamp of a current time period of predetermined length; and the at least one second counter value comprises a second time stamp of the current time period of the predetermined length.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one first counter value is associated with the second electronic device according to a device ID stored on the first electronic device.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, the first electronic device is a server and the second electronic device is an automated teller machine (ATM).
11. A method for securing device commands, the method comprising: generating, at a first electronic device, at least one first counter value based on a current time; generating, at the second electronic device, at least one first MAC by applying a one-way hash function to a first one or more hash inputs to produce a non-reusable hashing; wherein the first or more hash inputs comprise the at least one first counter value; wherein the at least one second counter value being based on the time results in the non-reusable hashing of the command authorization request message being expired at a later time such that each MAC generated by the one-way hash function for every message is unique; wherein the at least one device command is a respective command to be performed by the second electronic device; generating, at the second electronic device, a command authorization request message having the non-reusable hashing, comprising: i) at least one first message authentication code (MAC), ii) at least one device command, and iii) at least one command argument; transmitting the command authorization request message to a first electronic device; receiving a response at the second electronic device from the first electronic device; wherein the response is generated according to a comparison of the at least one first MAC with an at least one second MAC; wherein the at least one second MAC is generated by applying the one-way hash function to a second hash input to reproduce the non-reusable hashing; wherein the second hash inputs comprises at least one second counter value based on the current time.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising encrypting, by the second electronic device, the command authorization request message.
13. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising encrypting, by the second electronic device, the device command and the at least one command argument before generating the at least one first MAC.
14. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising using, by the second electronic device, the at least one first counter value as a hash key for the one-way hash function.
15. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising using, by the second electronic device, the at least one second counter value as a hash key for the one-way hash function.
16. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising using a shared hash key shared between the first electronic device and the second electronic device for applying the one-way hash function.
17. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the command authorization request message is configured to cause the first electronic device to generate the at least one first counter value.
18. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the at least one command approval message and the at least one command denial message are configured to cause the first electronic device to generate the at least one first counter value.
19. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the at least one first counter value is associated with the second electronic device according to a device ID stored on the first electronic device.
20. A system for securing device commands, the system comprising: an electronic device in communication with an authorization device, the electronic device configured to: receive a command authorization request message having non-reusable hashing from a second electronic device, comprising: i) at least one first message authentication code (MAC), ii) at least one device command, and iii) at least one command argument; wherein the at least one device command is a respective command to be performed by the second electronic device; wherein the at least one first MAC has been generated by applying a one-way hash function to a first hash inputs to produce the non-reusable hashing; wherein the first hash input comprises at least one first counter value; generate at least one second counter value based on a current time associated with receiving the command authorization request message; generate at least one second MAC by applying the one-way hash function to a second hash input to reproduce the non-reusable hashing; wherein the second hash inputs comprises the at least one second counter value; wherein the at least one second counter value being based on the current time results in the non-reusable hashing of the command authorization request message being expired at a later time such that each MAC generated by the one-way hash function for every message is unique; and compare the at least one first MAC and the at least one second MAC to authenticate the at least one device command.
</claims>
</document>
