<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/583,G06N7/00,G06T7/00,H04L29/06,H04W4/021,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPLUNK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAN, CHRISTOPHER
CHOR, JESSE
EMERY, MICHAEL
BHUSHAN, DEVIN
WONG, GLEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GEOFENCE-BASED OBJECT IDENTIFICATION IN AN EXTENDED REALITY ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile device that includes a camera and an extended reality software application program is employed by a user in an operating environment, such as an industrial environment. One or more objects within a geofence may be identified. A device crosses within the geofence and acquires sensor data associated with an object within the geofence. The sensor data may include image data and/or audio data. The device or a server system may then determine an object identifier associated with the object based on a comparison of the sensor data with data associated with object identifiers corresponding to objects within the geofence. Based on the object identifier, data associated with the object are obtained. The data associated with the object may be presented via the device, such as an extended reality overlay over a view of the object in the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining at least one location coordinate using a network-based sensor; acquiring, via at least one sensor of a client computing device that provides an extended reality (XR) environment, sensor data associated with a first object that is positioned within a geofence associated with the at least one location coordinate; identifying a marker based on the sensor data; determining, based on the marker, that a first object identifier included in a plurality of object identifiers corresponds to the first object, wherein each object identifier included in the plurality of object identifiers corresponds to a different object positioned within the geofence; and acquiring data associated with the first object based on the first object identifier, wherein the data associated with the first object is acquired by executing a search of stored data, and wherein a visualization in the XR environment is based at least in part on the data associated with the first object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker comprises an optical data marker, and the optical data marker is identified from at least one image included in the sensor data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the visualization in the XR environment is further based on at least one of a size, a three-dimensional position, an orientation, or a detected plane of the marker.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the first object identifier corresponds to the first object comprises decoding the marker to retrieve the first object identifier.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the first object is acquired by executing a search of data stored in a data intake and query system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the first object is acquired by executing a search of data stored in a database.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the first object comprises at least one of a set of field values, an image, a dashboard, a playbook, a runbook, or a card, and the visualization in the XR environment comprises an image that includes the first object and an overlay of a visual representation of the data associated with the first object, wherein the overlay is disposed relative to the first object based on at least one of a graphical model of the first object or a dimension of the first object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the geofence corresponds to at least a portion of a building, and each object identifier included in the plurality of object identifiers corresponds to a different object located within the at least a portion of the building.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first object identifier comprises at least one of a serial number, a model name, a model number, a brand name, or a brand logo.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring additional data associated with the first object by decoding the marker.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising acquiring a two-dimensional or three-dimensional model associated with the first object by decoding the marker.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that the device is within a particular area of the geofence.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the first object comprises real-time data for at least one metric.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker comprises a quick response (QR) code.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the marker comprises a bar code.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the client computing device comprises one of a smartphone, a tablet computer, a handheld computer, a wearable device, a portable media player, or a gaming device.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor of the client computing device includes a camera.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the steps of: determining at least one location coordinate using a network-based sensor; acquiring, via at least one sensor of a client computing device that provides an extended reality (XR) environment, sensor data associated with a first object that is positioned within a geofence associated with the at least one location coordinate; identifying a marker based on the sensor data; determining, based on the marker, that a first object identifier included in a plurality of object identifiers corresponds to the first object, wherein each object identifier included in the plurality of object identifiers corresponds to a different object positioned within the geofence; and acquiring data associated with the first object based on the first object identifier, wherein the data associated with the first object is acquired by executing a search of stored data, and wherein a visualization in the XR environment is based at least in part on the data associated with the first object.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the marker comprises an optical data marker, and the optical data marker is identified from at least one image included in the sensor data.
20. A computing device, comprising: a memory that includes instructions; and a processor that is coupled to the memory and, when executing the instructions: determines at least one location coordinate using a network-based sensor, acquires, via at least one sensor of a client computing device that provides an extended reality (XR) environment, sensor data associated with a first object that is positioned within a geofence associated with the at least one location coordinate, identifies a marker based on the sensor data, determines, based on the marker, that a first object identifier included in a plurality of object identifiers corresponds to the first object, wherein each object identifier included in the plurality of object identifiers corresponds to a different object positioned within the geofence, and acquires data associated with the first object based on the first object identifier, wherein the data associated with the first object is acquired by executing a search of stored data, and wherein a visualization in the XR environment is based at least in part on the data associated with the first object.
</claims>
</document>
