<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S11/06,G01S5/02,H04B17/27,H04B17/318,H04W24/00,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/029,H04W4/06,H04W4/50,H04W4/80,H04W52/32,H04W64/00,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESTIMOTE POLSKA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRZYCH, JAKUB
KOSTKA, LUKASZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63670275
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for lower power data routing
</title>

<abstract>
A system for data routing includes a set of beacons, an object, and a data routing system. A method for data routing can include: generating a routing table, determining a data routing path based on the routing table, and routing data to an endpoint based on the data routing path.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for routing data within a local node network including a plurality of individually-addressed Bluetooth nodes, the method comprising, at a remote computing system physically remote from the node network: determining: data addressed to a target node of the node network; and an optimal routing path from a first node to the target node; and selecting the first node of the node network based on the optimal routing path, wherein the first node comprises a cellular hardware module; wirelessly connecting to the first node via the cellular hardware module; and after wirelessly connecting to the first node, transmitting the data to the first node, wherein the data is routed from the first node to the target node using Bluetooth radios and the optimal routing path.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first node comprises: receiving a node identifier from a user; and selecting a node associated with the node identifier as the first node.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising, at the remote computing system, after selecting the first node, selecting a replacement first node, comprising: receiving a second node identifier from the user; and selecting a node associated with the second node identifier as the new first node.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the target node is operable in an advertising mode, the method further comprising, at the remote computing system: receiving, from the first node, a data packet and a signal strength of the data packet, the data packet comprising a target node identifier and a first timestamp, wherein an initial intermediate node, of a set of intermediate nodes, received the data packet from the target node and forwarded the data packet to the first node; and determining a first physical distance between the initial intermediate node and the target node based on: the signal strength, and a known location of the initial intermediate node.
5. The method of claim 4, the method further comprising, at the remote computing system: receiving, from the first node, a second data packet and a second signal strength of the data packet, the data packet comprising the target node identifier and a second timestamp, wherein a second intermediate node received the second data packet from the target node and forwarded the second data packet to the first node; determining a second physical distance between the second intermediate node and the target node based on: the second signal strength, and a known location of the second intermediate node; and determining a target location of the target node based on the first physical distance and the second physical distance, wherein the first timestamp is within a predetermined timeframe of the second timestamp.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising, at the remote computing system: receiving, from the first node: a first data packet comprising a first signal strength of the first data packet, the first data packet received at the first node from the target node; and a second data packet comprising a second signal strength of the second data packet, the second data packet received at a second node from the target node, the second node different from the first node; and determining a target location of the target node based on: a first known location of the first node and the first signal strength, and a second known location of the second node and the second signal strength.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: for each time window of a plurality of time windows, at the remote computing system, receiving, from the first node: a first data packet received from a first recipient node, the first data packet comprising a first signal strength associated with the target node; a second data packet associated with the second node, the second data packet comprising a second signal strength associated with the target node; and determining a target node location based on the first signal strength, the second signal strength, a known location of the first recipient node, and a known location of the second recipient node; and determining a physical path of the target node based on the respective target node locations for each of the plurality of time windows.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising, generating a routing table for the node network based on node battery levels, received from the nodes via the first node.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the data comprises a node routing path from the target node to the first node, wherein the node routing path is based on the routing table.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the node routing path comprises all hops between the target node and the first node.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises operation parameter settings for the target node, the method further comprising, at the remote computing system, verifying data transmission to the target node, comprising: receiving data packets broadcast by the target node via the first node; verifying data transmission to the target node upon determination that the target node is operating according to the operation parameter settings, based on the received data packets.
12. A method for routing data within a local node network including a plurality of individually-addressed Bluetooth nodes, the method comprising: at a first node of the node network, wherein the first node comprises a cellular hardware module, and wherein the first node is wirelessly connected to a remote computing system physically remote from the node network: receiving, from the remote computing system, via the cellular hardware module: data addressed to a target node of the node network; and an optimal routing path from the first node to the target node; and routing the data to the target node according to the optimal routing path, using radios of nodes identified within the optimal routing path.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the data comprises a firmware update.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the data comprises operation parameter settings for each of the plurality of nodes, the method further comprising, at the first node: forwarding, to each of the plurality of nodes, the respective operation parameter settings based on the optimal routing path; and operating according to the operation parameter settings.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the data comprises a node routing path from the target node to the first node via a set of intermediate nodes, the method further comprising, at the target node: receiving the node routing path; and storing the node routing path in memory.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein routing a data packet from the target node to the first node comprises, sequentially, at each intermediate node of the set of intermediate nodes: switching to a scanning mode from an advertising mode; while in the scanning mode, receiving the data packet from a respective preceding node of the intermediate node; upon receipt of the data packet, forwarding the data packet to a respective next node of the intermediate node; and after forwarding the data packet, switching to the advertising mode.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein routing a data packet from the first node to the remote computing system comprises, at the first node: switching to a scanning mode from an advertising mode; while in the scanning mode, receiving the data packet from a preceding node of the first node; after receipt of the data packet, forwarding the data packet to the remote computing system; and switching to the advertising mode.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the advertising mode comprises, at a predetermined frequency, broadcasting a first node identifier associated with the first node.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein forwarding the data packet to the remote computing system comprises transmitting the data packet using the cellular hardware module.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein each node of the plurality of nodes comprises a respective ultra-wide band (UWB) radio, and wherein a scanning mode comprises switching the respective UWB radio to a transmission mode.
</claims>
</document>
