<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G07C9/00,G07C9/25,G07C9/28,G08B25/01,G08B7/06,H04B1/3827,H04L29/06,H04L9/32,H04W12/04,H04W12/06,H04W12/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASSA ABLOY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERG, DANIEL
EINBERG, FREDRIK CARL STEFAN
HOYER, PHILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55862795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WEARABLE MISPLACEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An access control system is described in which a primary credential device has a master key and a secondary credential device has a key derived from the master key. Both the master key and the derivative key are required to gain access to the resource protected by the access control system. If the secondary credential device is lost, misplaced, or stolen, it cannot be used to gain illicit access to the protected resource, and it can be easily replaced by providing a different secondary credential device with another key derived from the master key.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method, comprising: identifying an access attempt at a primary credential device; in response to identifying the access attempt, generating a derived key, wherein the derived key is a derivative of a master key and wherein the master key is not determined from the derived key; sending the master key to an access control reader via a first communication path; and sending the derived key to the access control reader via a second communication path, wherein the first communication path flows through a secondary credential device which forwards the derived key to the access control reader thereby enabling the access control reader to make an access control decision based, at least in part, on determining that the master key and the derived key indicate authorization to access a protected resource.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: causing the secondary credential device to delete the derived key from memory after the secondary credential device forwards the derived key to the access control reader.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a signal at the primary credential device, wherein the signal is transmitted by the access control reader.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a sensor input that correlates with proximity to the access control reader.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a user input at the primary credential device indicating that a user desires the primary credential device to initiate an access process with the access control reader.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: detecting that the primary credential device is within a predetermined proximity of the access control reader; and providing a prompt to a user of the primary credential device asking whether the user desires the primary credential device to establish communications with the access control reader.
27. The method of claim 21, further comprising: establishing a secure communication channel with the secondary credential device prior to sending the derived key to the secondary credential device, wherein the second communication path comprises the secure communication channel.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein the first communication path and the second communication path utilize a common communication protocol.
29. The method of claim 21, wherein the first communication path and the second communication path utilize different communication protocols.
30. An access control system, comprising: a processor; a communication interface in communication with the processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: identify an access attempt at a primary credential device; in response to identifying the access attempt, generate a derived key, wherein the derived key is a derivative of a master key, and wherein the master key is not determined from the derived key; send the master key to an access control reader via a first communication path; and send the derived key to the access control reader via a second communication path, wherein the first communication path flows through a secondary credential device which forwards the derived key to the access control reader thereby enabling the access control reader to make an access control decision based, at least in part, on determining that the master key and the derived key indicate authorization to access a protected resource.
31. The access control system of claim 30, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: cause the secondary credential device to delete the derived key from memory after the secondary credential device forwards the derived key to the access control reader.
32. The access control system of claim 30, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a signal at the primary credential device, wherein the signal is transmitted by the access control reader.
33. The access control system of claim 30, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a sensor input that correlates with proximity to the access control reader.
34. The access control system of claim 30, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: receiving a user input at the primary credential device indicating that a user desires the primary credential device to initiate an access process with the access control reader.
35. The access control system of claim 30, wherein identifying the access attempt at the primary credential device comprises: detecting that the primary credential device is within a predetermined proximity of the access control reader; and providing a prompt to a user of the primary credential device asking whether the user desires the primary credential device to establish communication with the access control reader.
36. The access control system of claim 30, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: establish a secure communication channel with the secondary credential device prior to sending the derived key to the secondary credential device, wherein the second communication path comprises the secure communication channel.
37. The access control system of claim 30, wherein the first communication path and the second communication path utilize a common communication protocol.
38. The access control system of claim 30, wherein the first communication path and the second communication path utilize different communication protocols.
39. A primary credential device for an access control system, comprising: a processor; a communication interface; and a memory having a key vault for storing a master key, the memory further storing instructions for execution by the processor, the instructions, when executed by the processor, causing the processor to: identify an access attempt; in response to identifying the access attempt, generate a derived key, wherein the derived key is a derivative of the master key, and wherein the master key is not determined from the derived key; send the master key to an access control reader via a first communication path; and send the derived key to the access control reader via a second communication path, wherein the first communication path flows through a secondary credential device which forwards the derived key to the access control reader thereby enabling the access control reader to make an access control decision based, at least in part, on determining that the master key and the derived key indicate authorization to access a protected resource.
40. The primary credential device of claim 39, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: cause the secondary credential device to delete the derived key from its memory after the secondary credential device forwards the derived key to the access control reader.
</claims>
</document>
