<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/11,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SZ DJI TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO YAO
YANG, KANG
LI, SIJIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65462875
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR PROCESSING NUMERICAL DATA, DEVICE, AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A method of processing numerical data via a processing device is disclosed. The processing device includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory, and the method includes identifying, via the processor, a highest non-zero bit of first numerical data, the first numerical data being of a first bit count, identifying, via the processor, a second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data, and generating, via the processor, a numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit. The numerical representation is of a second bit count smaller than the first bit count of the first numerical data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing numerical data via a processing device, the processing device including a memory and a processor coupled to the memory, the method comprising: identifying, via the processor, a highest non-zero bit of first numerical data, the first numerical data being of a first bit count; identifying, via the processor, a second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data; and generating, via the processor, a numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit, wherein the numerical representation is of a second bit count smaller than the first bit count of the first numerical data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a sign bit of the first numerical data, wherein generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit includes: generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit, the second-highest non-zero bit, and the sign bit.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit, the second-highest non-zero bit, and the sign bit includes: determining a first sub-representation corresponding to a position of the highest non-zero bit; determining a second sub-representation corresponding to a position differential between the position of the highest non-zero bit and a position of the second-highest non-zero bit; and generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation, the second sub-representation, and the sign bit.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation, the second sub-representation, and the sign bit includes: forming a sequence representation connecting a third sub-representation, the first sub-representation, and the second sub-representation, in this order, the third sub-representation corresponding to the sign bit; and outputting the sequence representation as the numerical representation of the first numerical data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit includes: determining a first sub-representation corresponding to a position of the highest non-zero bit; determining a second sub-representation corresponding to a differential between the position of the highest non-zero bit and a position of the second-highest non-zero bit; and generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation and the second sub-representation.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation and the second sub-representation includes: forming a sequence representation connecting the first sub-representation and the second sub-representation, in this order; and outputting the sequence representation as the numerical representation of the first numerical data.
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising: when the first numerical data is 0, designating each position of the numerical representation of the first numerical data as 1.
8. The method of claim 3, further comprising: when the second sub-representation of the first numerical data is greater than a preset threshold, setting the preset threshold as the second sub-representation of the first numerical data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of identifying the sign bit, identifying the highest non-zero bit, or identifying the second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data is carried out via binary fixed-point representation of the first numerical data.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a highest non-zero bit of a second numerical data; identifying a second-highest non-zero bit of the second numerical data; generating a numerical representation of the second numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit of the second numerical data; and determining a product of the first and second numerical data according to the numerical representation of the first numerical data and the numerical representation of the second numerical data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the product of the first and second numerical data according to the numerical representation of the first numerical data and the numerical representation of the second numerical data includes: solving equation
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?x1×x2≈sign(x1)×sign(x2)×((1<<(a1+a2))+(1<<(a1+a2−b2))+(1<<(a1−b1+a2))+(1<<(a1−b1+a2−b2)))description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein x1 represents the first numerical data, x2 represents the second numerical data, sign(x1) represents the third sub-representation corresponding to the sign bit of the first numerical data, sign(x2) represents the third sub-representation corresponding to the sign bit of the second numerical data, a1 represents the first sub-representation of the first numerical data, a2 represents the second sub-representation of the first numerical data, b1 represents the first sub-representation of the second numerical data, b2 represents the second sub-representation of the second numerical data, and sign "<<" represents shift operation.
12. A device of processing numerical data, comprising a memory and a processor coupled to the memory, the processor being configured to perform: identifying a highest non-zero bit of first numerical data, the first numerical data being of a first bit count; identifying a second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data; and generating a numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit, wherein the numerical representation is of a second bit count smaller than the first bit count of the first numerical data.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: identifying a sign bit of the first numerical data; and generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit, the second-highest non-zero bit, and the sign bit.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: determining a first sub-representation corresponding to a position of the highest non-zero bit; determining a second sub-representation corresponding to a position differential between the position of the highest non-zero bit and a position of the second-highest non-zero bit; and generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation, the second sub-representation, and the sign bit.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: forming a sequence representation connecting the first sub-representation and the second sub-representation, in this order; and outputting the sequence representation as the numerical representation of the first numerical data.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: determining a first sub-representation corresponding to a position of the highest non-zero bit; determining a second sub-representation corresponding to a position differential between the position of the highest non-zero bit and a position of the second-highest non-zero bit; and generating the numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the first sub-representation, the second sub-representation, and the sign bit.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: forming a sequence representation connecting a third sub-representation, the first sub-representation, and the second sub-representation, in this order, the third sub-representation corresponding to the sign bit; and outputting the sequence representation as the numerical representation of the first numerical data.
18. The device of claim 12, wherein at least one of identifying the sign bit, identifying the highest non-zero bit, or identifying the second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data is carried out via binary fixed-point numbering of the first numerical data.
19. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to perform: identifying a highest non-zero bit of a second numerical data; identifying a second-highest non-zero bit of the second numerical data; generating a numerical representation of the second numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit of the second numerical data; and determining a product of the first and second numerical data according to the numerical representation of the first numerical data and the numerical representation of the second numerical data.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer program instructions executable by a processor to perform: identifying a highest non-zero bit of first numerical data, the first numerical data being of a first bit count; identifying a second-highest non-zero bit of the first numerical data; and generating a numerical representation of the first numerical data according to the highest non-zero bit and the second-highest non-zero bit, wherein the numerical representation is of a second bit count smaller than the first bit count of the first numerical data.
</claims>
</document>
