<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHADURI, Kanishka
EVERSON, Bernard H.
BUNYARD, Jeremy M.
HWANG, Boon C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745577
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR IMPLEMENTING ADVERTISEMENT AUCTIONS ON CLIENT DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Representative embodiments set forth techniques for managing advertisement auctions on a client device. The method can include the steps of (1) receiving, from a server device, a plurality of objects, where each object is associated with a respective digital asset, and each object includes, in association with the respective digital asset (i) a server-derived digital asset vector, (ii) a server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and (iii) a bid amount. In turn, and for each object of the plurality of objects, the client device (2) generates a respective estimated cost per impression for the object based on the information provided by the server device as well as information derived by the client device. Subsequently, the client device (3) identifies, among the plurality of objects, the object associated with the highest respective estimated cost per impression, and (4) causes an advertisement for the respective digital asset associated with the identified object to be displayed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for displaying media content on a client device, the method comprising, at the client device: receiving a plurality of objects from a server device, wherein each object of the plurality of objects is associated with a respective digital asset, and includes: (i) respective media content associated with the respective digital asset, and (ii) a respective threshold that identifies when the respective media content should be displayed on the client device; for each object of the plurality of objects: modifying the respective threshold based on user history data that is accessible to the client device to produce a respective modified threshold; identifying a particular object of the plurality of objects based on the respective modified thresholds of the plurality of objects; and causing the client device to display the respective media content for the particular object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each object of the plurality of objects further includes: (1) a server-derived digital asset vector, (2) a server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and (3) a bid amount.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising, for each object of the plurality of objects: generating a respective similarity for the object based on (1) the server-derived digital asset vector included in the object, and (2) the user history data, generating a respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate for the object based on (1) the server-derived predicted tap-through rate included in the object, and (2) the respective similarity for the object, and generating the respective estimated cost per impression for the object based on (1) the bid amount included in the object, and (2) the respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate, wherein the respective threshold represents the server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and the respective modified threshold represents the respective estimated cost per impression.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: providing, to the server device, filtered information that omits: the user history data, and the respective modified thresholds.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the user history data is formed based on a plurality of digital asset vectors, each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is associated with a respective digital asset installed on the client device, and each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is weighted in accordance with at least one temporal property that represents an overall amount time that the respective digital asset is utilized on the client device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user history data is updated in response to: an application being installed on the client device, an application being uninstalled on the client device, or a temporal condition being satisfied.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of objects is encrypted using an encryption key that is accessible to both the client device and the server device.
8. At least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium configured to store instructions that, when executed by at least one processor included in a client device, cause the client device to display media content, by carrying out steps that include: receiving a plurality of objects from a server device, wherein each object of the plurality of objects is associated with a respective digital asset, and includes: (i) respective media content associated with the respective digital asset, and (ii) a respective threshold that identifies when the respective media content should be displayed on the client device; for each object of the plurality of objects: modifying the respective threshold based on user history data that is accessible to the client device to produce a respective modified threshold; identifying a particular object of the plurality of objects based on the respective modified thresholds of the plurality of objects; and causing the client device to display the respective media content for the particular object.
9. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein each object of the plurality of objects further includes: (1) a server-derived digital asset vector, (2) a server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and (3) a bid amount.
10. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the steps further include, for each object of the plurality of objects: generating a respective similarity for the object based on (1) the server-derived digital asset vector included in the object, and (2) the user history data, generating a respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate for the object based on (1) the server-derived predicted tap-through rate included in the object, and (2) the respective similarity for the object, and generating the respective estimated cost per impression for the object based on (1) the bid amount included in the object, and (2) the respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate, wherein the respective threshold represents the server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and the respective modified threshold represents the respective estimated cost per impression.
11. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the steps further include: providing, to the server device, filtered information that omits: the user history data, and the respective modified thresholds.
12. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein: the user history data is formed based on a plurality of digital asset vectors, each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is associated with a respective digital asset installed on the client device, and each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is weighted in accordance with at least one temporal property that represents an overall amount time that the respective digital asset is utilized on the client device.
13. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the user history data is updated in response to: an application being installed on the client device, an application being uninstalled on the client device, or a temporal condition being satisfied.
14. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the plurality of objects is encrypted using an encryption key that is accessible to both the client device and the server device.
15. A client device configured to display media content, the client device comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the client device to perform steps that include: receiving a plurality of objects from a server device, wherein each object of the plurality of objects is associated with a respective digital asset, and includes: (i) respective media content associated with the respective digital asset, and (ii) a respective threshold that identifies when the respective media content should be displayed on the client device; for each object of the plurality of objects: modifying the respective threshold based on user history data that is accessible to the client device to produce a respective modified threshold; identifying a particular object of the plurality of objects based on the respective modified thresholds of the plurality of objects; and causing the client device to display the respective media content for the particular object.
16. The client device of claim 15, wherein each object of the plurality of objects further includes: (1) a server-derived digital asset vector, (2) a server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and (3) a bid amount.
17. The client device of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor further causes the client device to perform steps that include, for each object of the plurality of objects: generating a respective similarity for the object based on (1) the server-derived digital asset vector included in the object, and (2) the user history data, generating a respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate for the object based on (1) the server-derived predicted tap-through rate included in the object, and (2) the respective similarity for the object, and generating the respective estimated cost per impression for the object based on (1) the bid amount included in the object, and (2) the respective client-derived predicted tap-through rate, wherein the respective threshold represents the server-derived predicted tap-through rate, and the respective modified threshold represents the respective estimated cost per impression.
18. The client device of claim 17, wherein the at least one processor further causes the client device to perform steps that include: providing, to the server device, filtered information that omits: the user history data, and the respective modified thresholds.
19. The client device of claim 15, wherein: the user history data is formed based on a plurality of digital asset vectors, each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is associated with a respective digital asset installed on the client device, and each digital asset vector of the plurality of digital asset vectors is weighted in accordance with at least one temporal property that represents an overall amount time that the respective digital asset is utilized on the client device.
20. The client device of claim 19, wherein the user history data is updated in response to: an application being installed on the client device, an application being uninstalled on the client device, or a temporal condition being satisfied.
</claims>
</document>
