<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N27/12,G01N35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAI, BEENA
DESHPANDE, PARIJAT DILIP
DUTTA, JAYITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68916370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETECTION OF CONCENTRATION OF MICRO AND NANO PARTICLES IN A FLUID ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates generally to detection of concentration of micro and nano particles in a fluid environment. An acoustic transmitter array is selective coated with polymer and receiver array is deployed at a random location in a conduit. The acoustic transmitter array on the conduit is insonified at a predetermined frequency to obtain a plurality of reflected signals. A plurality of key features pertinent to the conduit are extracted from the plurality of reflected signals to obtain a plurality of acoustic signals. A correlation model is configured by inputting, at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals. A known concentrations of nano and micro particles are trained with an artificial neural network algorithm and calibrated with ground truth data. The location of the transmitter array and receiver array and the correlation model are finalized for detecting concentration of the particular micro and nano particles in the fluid environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method of detecting and estimating concentration of micro and nano particles in a fluid environment, comprising: deploying, an acoustic transmitter and receiver array at a first location in a conduit; applying, a selective coating of polymer to a transmitting face of the acoustic transmitter array based on an intended particle to be measured, wherein the intended particle corresponds to the micro and the nano particles; insonifying, the acoustic transmitter array on the conduit at a predetermined frequency from the first location to obtain a plurality of reflected signals; extracting, a plurality of key features pertinent to the conduit from the plurality of reflected signals and by marking a plurality of locations to obtain an plurality of acoustic signals; configuring, a correlation model based on at least one of: (a) pre-processing, the plurality of acoustic signals to obtain a preprocessed signals by removing one or more noise or outliers; (b) analyzing, the pre-processed acoustic signals to obtain at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals; and (c) inputting, the at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals are fed into an artificial neural network (ANN) to configure the correlation model based on at least one of: (i) a supervised learning, or (ii) unsupervised learning and (iii) combination thereof; and training, the correlation model with a calibrated ground truth data to obtain concentration of the micro and the nano particles.
2. The processor implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, determining, an acoustic map of the conduit based on the plurality of key features and a minimum number of recordings are established.
3. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals is to distinguish effect on the plurality of reflected signals due to effect of at least one particle adsorbed on the face of the transmitter array.
4. The processor implemented method of claim 3, wherein the at least one key features are extracted from at least one of: (i) a time-domain, (ii) a frequency domain, and (iii) wavelets.
5. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the supervised learning corresponds to at least one of a classification and regression tree (CART), a support vector machine (SVM).
6. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the unsupervised learning corresponds to at least one of k-means, mixture models, Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).
7. A system (200) to detect concentration of micro and nano particles in a fluid environment, comprising: a memory (102) storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces (106); and one or more hardware processors (104) coupled to the memory (102) via the one or more communication interfaces (106), wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to: deploy, an acoustic transmitter and receiver array at a first location in a conduit; apply, a selective coating of polymer to a transmitting face of the acoustic transmitter array based on an intended particle to be measured, wherein the intended particle corresponds to the micro and the nano particles; insonify, the acoustic transmitter array on the conduit at a predetermined frequency from the first location to obtain a plurality of reflected signals; extract, a plurality of key features pertinent to the conduit from the plurality of reflected signals and by marking a plurality of locations to obtain an plurality of acoustic signals; configure, a correlation model based on at least one of: (a) pre-process, the plurality of acoustic signals to obtain a preprocessed signals by removing one or more noise or outliers; (b) analyze, the pre-processed acoustic signals to obtain at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals; and (c) input, the at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals are fed into an artificial neural network (ANN) to configure the correlation model based on at least one of: (i) a supervised learning, or (ii) unsupervised learning and (iii) combination thereof; and train, the correlation model with a calibrated ground truth data to obtain concentration of the micro and the nano particles.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the instructions to determine, an acoustic map of the conduit based on the plurality of key features and a minimum number of recordings are established.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the at least one feature associated with the pre-processed acoustic signals is to distinguish effect on the plurality of reflected signals due to effect of at least one particle adsorbed on the face of the transmitter array.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one key features are extracted from at least one of: (i) a time-domain, (ii) a frequency domain, and (iii) wavelets.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the supervised learning corresponds to at least one of a classification and regression tree (CART), a support vector machine (SVM).
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the unsupervised learning corresponds to at least one of k-means, mixture models, Hidden Markov Models (HMMs).
</claims>
</document>
