<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/12,A61B5/00,G16H10/60,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONNER, CHRISTOPHER R.
Chen, Peng R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515925
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATED RULES BASED ASSESSMENT OF ANEURYSM COIL STABILITY
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of systems and methods for rules based assessment of endovascular coil stability are disclosed. These systems and methods may assess images from a patient taken at a first time, such as a time of initial coil placement or thereafter, and at one or more second times, using a set of rules. Based on this assessment, a predictive recurrence indicator predictive of recurrence of the coil in the patient may be determined and presented to a user of the system (such as a doctor or other clinician). This predictive recurrence indicator can then be utilized to determine if further procedures should be undertaken to diagnose or treat the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An aneurysm coil assessment system, comprising: a processor; a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium, including computer instructions for: obtaining patient data on a set of patients, each patient having had an aneurysm coil procedure for an aneurysm, wherein the patient data for a first patient includes a first image of a coil placed in the aneurysm coil procedure for the first patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the first patient from a second time and a recurrence indicator indicating whether that first patient has a recurrence of their aneurysm subsequently to having the aneurysm coiling procedure; generating values for a set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients from the patient data for each patient, wherein the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the first patient is based on the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time; generating a rule set for generating a predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients and the recurrence indicator associated with each of the set of patients; receiving an indication from a user that the predictive recurrence indicator is to be generated for a second patient; obtaining a first image of a coil placed in an aneurysm coiling procedure for the second patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the second patient from a second time; generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient based on the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time; applying the rule set to the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient to generate the predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient, wherein the predictive recurrence indicator is predictive of recurrence of the coil in the second patient; and presenting the predictive recurrence indicator to the user.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the second image for the second patient is obtained from an imaging device over a computing network.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the coil assessment metrics include density of the coil, length of the coil, or width of the coil.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first image or second image are an anterior-posterior skull x-ray or a lateral skull x-ray.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the rule set is a logit model.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time and generating the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein aligning the first image and the second image for the first patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the first patient with the coil in the second image of the first patient and aligning the first image and the second image for the second patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the second patient with the coil in the second image of the second patient.
8. A method for aneurysm coil assessment system, comprising: obtaining patient data on a set of patients, each patient having had an aneurysm coil procedure for an aneurysm, wherein the patient data for a first patient includes a first image of a coil placed in the aneurysm coil procedure for the first patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the first patient from a second time and a recurrence indicator indicating whether that first patient has a recurrence of their aneurysm subsequently to having the aneurysm coiling procedure; generating values for a set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients from the patient data for each patient, wherein the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the first patient is based on the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time; generating a rule set for generating a predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients and the recurrence indicator associated with each of the set of patients; receiving an indication from a user that the predictive recurrence indicator is to be generated for a second patient; obtaining a first image of a coil placed in an aneurysm coiling procedure for the second patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the second patient from a second time; generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient based on the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time; applying the rule set to the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient to generate the predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient, wherein the predictive recurrence indicator is predictive of recurrence of the coil in the second patient; and presenting the predictive recurrence indicator to the user.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second image for the second patient is obtained from an imaging device over a computing network.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the coil assessment metrics include density of the coil, length of the coil, or width of the coil.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the first image or second image are an anterior-posterior skull x-ray or a lateral skull x-ray.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the rule set is a logit model.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time and generating the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein aligning the first image and the second image for the first patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the first patient with the coil in the second image of the first patient and aligning the first image and the second image for the second patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the second patient with the coil in the second image of the second patient.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising instruction for: obtaining patient data on a set of patients, each patient having had an aneurysm coil procedure for an aneurysm, wherein the patient data for a first patient includes a first image of a coil placed in the aneurysm coil procedure for the first patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the first patient from a second time and a recurrence indicator indicating whether that first patient has a recurrence of their aneurysm subsequently to having the aneurysm coiling procedure; generating values for a set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients from the patient data for each patient, wherein the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the first patient is based on the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time; generating a rule set for generating a predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients and the recurrence indicator associated with each of the set of patients; receiving an indication from a user that the predictive recurrence indicator is to be generated for a second patient; obtaining a first image of a coil placed in an aneurysm coiling procedure for the second patient from a first time and a second image of the coil of the second patient from a second time; generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient based on the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time and the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time; applying the rule set to the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient to generate the predictive recurrence indicator based on the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient, wherein the predictive recurrence indicator is predictive of recurrence of the coil in the second patient; and presenting the predictive recurrence indicator to the user.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the second image for the second patient is obtained from an imaging device over a computing network.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the coil assessment metrics include density of the coil, length of the coil, or width of the coil.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first image or second image are an anterior-posterior skull x-ray or a lateral skull x-ray.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the rule set is a logit model.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein generating values for the set of coil assessment metrics for each of the set of patients comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the first patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that first patient for the second time and generating the values for the set of coil assessment metrics for the second patient comprises aligning the first image of the coil of the second patient from the first time with the second image of the coil of that second patient for the second time.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein aligning the first image and the second image for the first patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the first patient with the coil in the second image of the first patient and aligning the first image and the second image for the second patient comprises aligning the coil in the first image of the second patient with the coil in the second image of the second patient.
</claims>
</document>
