<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,H04N21/23,H04N21/234,H04N21/25,H04N21/254,H04N21/2543,H04N21/8405,H04N21/845,H04N21/858
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISH NETWORK
</assignee>

<inventors>
MONTGOMERY, JESSE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATICALLY GENERATING SUPERCUTS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present technology may include systems and processes associated with automatically generating supercuts associated with programming content. The present technology may include receiving, at the computing device, a set of related programming content, wherein the set of related programming content includes video clips; receiving an input from a user including a command to generate a supercut and a keyword associated with the supercut; searching the set of related programming content for portions of the video clips associated with the keyword; identifying a first event within a first video clip associated with the keyword and a second event within a second video clip associated with the keyword; determining a type of event associated with each of the first and second events and link the types of events with their respective events; determining a pre-event time period and a post-event time period for each of the first and second events based on the types of events; and generating and displaying a supercut using the first event, the second event, the pre-event time periods, and the post-event time periods. The above steps may be implemented as a computer-implemented method, computer program product, or device such as a television receiver, or in other types of embodiments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting, responsive to signals received by a computing device, a change in a playback environment in which programming content is presently being displayed to a user via a display device coupled with the computing device; determining, automatically in response to the detecting, whether the change in the playback environment is associated with generating a supercut offer; automatically in response to determining that the change in the playback environment is associated with generating the supercut offer: identifying an elapsed portion of the programming content already displayed to the user prior to the detecting; identifying a plurality of video clips from the elapsed portion of the programming content as representative of the programming content; generating a supercut video comprising playback of the plurality of video clips in a sequence; and outputting, to the display device, a graphical indication of the supercut offer to indicate that the supercut video has been generated; receiving a user interaction with the graphical indication of the supercut offer; and outputting the supercut video for playback by the display device responsive to the user interaction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the plurality of video clips comprises: identifying a type of content associated with the programming content; searching the elapsed portion of the programming content for a set of events based on the type of content associated with the programming content; and identifying the plurality of video clips to include at least some of the set of events.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the change in the playback environment comprises receiving signals from a sensor coupled with the computing device, the signals indicating that an additional user has entered the playback environment.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the determining whether the change in the playback environment is associated with generating the supercut offer is based on individual preferences for the additional user stored by the computing device.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein at least one of identifying the plurality of video clips or generating the supercut is automatically tailored based on individual preferences for the additional user stored by the computing device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting is responsive to signals received by a computing device indicating that the user paused the programming content.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the supercut video is automatically tailored based on individual preferences for the user stored by the computing device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises pausing playback of the programming content automatically responsive to the user interaction during playback of the supercut video.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises outputting a picture-in-picture display for concurrent playback of the programming content and the supercut video.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises: determining a temporal location of one or more content breaks in the programming content; and directing playback of the supercut video via the display device during the one or more content breaks, and playback of the programming content otherwise.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein: generating the supercut video comprises generating a plurality of supercut videos, each according to a different respective set of user preferences; and outputting the supercut video comprises outputting a selected first supercut video for playback by the display device responsive to the user interaction.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein outputting the supercut video further comprises, upon completion of playback of the first supercut video, outputting at least a second of the supercut videos for playback by the display device.
13. A computing device, comprising: one or more processors; a non-transitory computer readable storage medium communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, having instructions stored thereon, that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations including: detecting, responsive to signals received by the computing device, a change in a playback environment in which programming content is presently being displayed to a user via a display device coupled with the computing device; generating a supercut offer automatically in response to determining that the change in the playback environment is associated with generating a supercut offer by: identifying an elapsed portion of the programming content already displayed to the user prior to the detecting; identifying a plurality of video clips from the elapsed portion of the programming content as representative of the programming content; generating a supercut video comprising playback of the plurality of video clips in a sequence; and outputting, to the display device, a graphical indication of the supercut offer to indicate that the supercut video has been generated; receiving a user interaction with the graphical indication of the supercut offer; and outputting the supercut video for playback by the display device responsive to the user interaction.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein identifying the plurality of video clips comprises: identifying a type of content associated with the programming content; searching the elapsed portion of the programming content for a set of events based on the type of content associated with the programming content; and identifying the plurality of video clips to include at least some of the set of events.
15. The computing device of claim 13, wherein the detecting the change in the playback environment comprises receiving signals from a sensor coupled with the computing device, the signals indicating that an additional user has entered the playback environment.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the determining whether the change in the playback environment is associated with generating the supercut offer is based on individual preferences for the additional user stored by the computing device.
17. The computing device of claim 15, wherein at least one of identifying the plurality of video clips or generating the supercut is automatically tailored based on individual preferences for the additional user stored by the computing device.
18. The computing device of claim 13, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises pausing playback of the programming content automatically responsive to the user interaction during playback of the supercut video.
19. The computing device of claim 13, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises outputting a picture-in-picture display for concurrent playback of the programming content and the supercut video.
20. The computing device of claim 13, wherein outputting the supercut video comprises: determining a temporal location of one or more content breaks in the programming content; and directing playback of the supercut video via the display device during the one or more content breaks, and playback of the programming content otherwise.
</claims>
</document>
