<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11B27/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZHEJIANG DAHUA TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO, SHENGGUO
QIN, CHANGHONG
WANG, SHOUYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR VIDEO REPLAYING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods video recording and video replaying. The method may include obtaining video data from a video recording device. The method may also include generating an index item corresponding to the video data if the video data includes a key frame, wherein the index item includes an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the key frame, and an offset address used to determine an address where the key frame is stored. The method may further include storing an index table including at least the index item in a video.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: at least one non-transitory storage medium, including a set of instructions for video replaying and video recording; logic circuits in communication with the at least one storage medium, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the logic circuits are directed to: obtain video data from a video recording device; generate an index item corresponding to the video data if the video data includes a key frame, wherein the index item includes an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the key frame, and an offset address used to determine an address where the key frame is stored; and store an index table including at least the index item in a video.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: identify a video frame including an event from the video data; obtain an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame; generate an event indicator corresponding to the event; and generate an index item based on the event indicator corresponding to the event, the index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame, and an offset address of the identified video frame.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the index item further includes a frame type, a time stamp, and a frame length of the identified video frame.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein to identify the video frame including the event from the video data, the logic circuits are directed to: obtain an event identification model; and identify the video frame including the event by inputting video frames of the video data into the event identification model.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the event identification model includes a neural network.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the video recording device cruises between at least two observation sites corresponding to at least two index positions, respectively, the logic circuits being further directed to: identify video frames including first events at a first observation site of the at least two observation sites; and generate index items corresponding to the first events at the first observation site.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: identify video frames including second events at a second observation site of the at least two observation sites; and generate index items corresponding to the second events at the second observation site.
8. The system of claim 2, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: obtain a target position of the video recording device and a target event indicator corresponding to a target event; obtain a video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator; and replay the target event in the video clip.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to obtain the video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator, the logic circuits are directed to: determine a target index position of the video recording device by searching the index table based on the target position of the video recording device, wherein the index table indexes a plurality of positions of the video recording device; identify an index item in the index table based on the target index position and the target event indicator corresponding to the target event; determine an offset address from the identified index item, the offset address being used to determine an address where a video frame include the target event is stored; and obtain the video clip including the target event based on the offset address.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: obtain a target position of the video recording device corresponding to a target scene; determine a target index position of the video recording device by searching the index table associated with the video based on the target position of the video recording device corresponding to the target scene, wherein the index table indexes a plurality of positions of the video recording device; determine an offset address in the index table corresponding to the target index position of the video recording device, wherein the offset address is used to determine an address where a key frame corresponding to the target index position of the video recording device is stored; obtain a video clip including the target scene based on the offset address; and replay the target scene in the video clip.
11. A system, comprising: at least one non-transitory storage medium, including a set of instructions for video replaying and video recording; logic circuits in communication with the at least one storage medium, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the logic circuits are directed to: obtain video data from a video recording device; identify a video frame including an event from the video data; obtain an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame; generate an event indicator corresponding to the event; generate an index item based on the event indicator corresponding to the event, the index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame, and an offset address of the video frame; and store an index table including at least the index item in a video clip.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the video recording device cruises between at least two observation sites corresponding to at least two index positions, respectively, the logic circuits being further directed to: identify video frames including first events at a first observation site of the at least two observation sites; and generate index items corresponding to the first events at the first observation site.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: identify video frames including second events at a second observation site of the at least two observation sites; and generate index items corresponding to the second events at the second observation site.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the logic circuits are further directed to: obtain a target position of the video recording device and a target event indicator corresponding to a target event; obtain a video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator; and replay the target event in the video clip.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein to obtain the video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator, the logic circuits are directed to: determine a target index position of the video recording device by searching the index table based on the target position of the video recording device, wherein the index table indexes a plurality of positions of the video recording device; identify an index item in the index table based on the target index position and the target event indicator corresponding to the target event; determine an offset address from the identified index item, the offset address being used to determine an address where a video frame include the target event is stored; and obtain the video clip including the target event based on the offset address.
16. A method for video replaying and video recording, the method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor and at least one computer-readable storage medium, the method comprising: obtaining video data from a video recording device; generating an index item corresponding to the video data if the video data includes a key frame, wherein the index item includes an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the key frame, and an offset address used to determine an address where the key frame is stored; and storing an index table including at least the index item in a video.
17. The method of claim 16, further including: identifying a video frame including an event from the video data; obtaining an index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame; generating an event indicator corresponding to the event; and generating an index item based on the event indicator corresponding to the event, the index position of the video recording device corresponding to the identified video frame, and an offset address of the identified video frame.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the video recording device cruises between at least two observation sites corresponding to at least two index positions, respectively, the method further including: identifying video frames including first events at a first observation site of the at least two observation sites; and generating index items corresponding to the first events at the first observation site.
19. The method of claim 17, further including: obtaining a target position of the video recording device and a target event indicator corresponding to a target event; obtaining a video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator; and replaying the target event in the video clip.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein obtaining the video clip including the target event by searching the index table of the video including the video clip based on the target position and the target event indicator includes: determining a target index position of the video recording device by searching the index table based on the target position of the video recording device, wherein the index table indexes a plurality of positions of the video recording device; identifying an index item in the index table based on the target index position and the target event indicator corresponding to the target event; determining an offset address from the identified index item, the offset address being used to determine an address where a video frame include the target event is stored; and obtaining the video clip including the target event based on the offset address.
</claims>
</document>
