<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION INDUSTRY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, HSIAO-CHEN
CHIU, JING-MING
HSIEH CHENG-CHE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69942457
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ESTABLISHING RELATIONAL DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method for establishing relational data includes: providing, by a positioning system, user device identity data, user device location data, and user device time data of a user device; capturing, by a camera, an image corresponding to type-of-product data, image location data, and image time data; identifying, by the computer device, a human activity of a person in the image; and producing, by the computer device, relational data for associating the user device identity data and the type-of-product data according to the human activity of the person, the user device identity data, the user device location data, the user device time data, the type-of-product data, the image location data, and the image time data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for establishing relational data, comprising: a positioning system, being configured to provide user device identity data, user device location data, and user device time data of a user device; a camera, being configured to capture an image corresponding to type-of-product data, image location data, and image time data; and a computer device, being connected to the positioning system and the camera, and being configured to: obtain the user device identity data, the user device location data, the user device time data, the image, the type-of-product data, the image location data, and the image time data; identify a human activity of a person in the image; and produce relational data for associating the user device identity data and the type-of-product data according to the human activity of the person, the user device identity data, the user device location data, the user device time data, the type-of-product data, the image location data, and the image time data.
2. The system for establishing relational data of claim 1, wherein the relational data is produced for marketing related to a type of product corresponding to the type-of-product data.
3. The system for establishing relational data of claim 2, wherein the computer is further configured to: provide an interface to receive a specified type-of-product corresponding to the type-of-product data; obtain the user device identity data corresponding to the type-of-product data according to the specified type-of-product and the relational data; and transmit a marketing notification related to the specified type-of-product to the user device.
4. The system for establishing relational data of claim 3, wherein the computer device transmits the marketing notification through at least one of a mobile device application and a webpage browser.
5. The system for establishing relational data of claim 1, wherein the positioning system comprises three wireless access points, and the positioning system detects the user device by the three wireless access points according to a triangulation method.
6. The system for establishing relational data of claim 1, wherein the computer device identifies the human activity of the person by a human activity recognition module.
7. The system for establishing relational data of claim 6, wherein the computer device establishes the human activity recognition module through machine learning.
8. The system for establishing relational data of claim 1, wherein the human activity of the person comprises at least one of a reaching recognition and a gazing recognition.
9. The system for establishing relational data of claim 5, wherein each of the three wireless access points is a Wi-Fi access point.
10. The system for establishing relational data of claim 1, wherein the user device identity data comprises a media access control address.
11. A method for establishing relational data, comprising: providing, by a positioning system, user device identity data, user device location data, and user device time data of a user device; capturing, by a camera, an image corresponding to type-of-product data, image location data, and image time data; obtaining, by a computer device, the user device identity data, the user device location data, the user device time data, the image, the type-of-product data, the image location data, and the image time data; identifying, by the computer device, a human activity of a person in the image; and producing, by the computer device, relational data for associating the user device identity data and the type-of-product data according to the human activity of the person, the user device identity data, the user device location data, the user device time data, the type-of-product data, the image location data, and the image time data.
12. The method for establishing relational data of claim 11, wherein the relational data is produced for marketing related to a type of product corresponding to the type-of-product data.
13. The method for establishing relational data of claim 12, further comprises: providing, by the computer device, an interface to receive a specified type-of-product corresponding to the type-of-product data; obtaining, by the computer device, the user device identity data corresponding to the type-of-product data according to the specified type-of-product and the relational data; and transmitting, by the computer device, a marketing notification related to the specified type-of-product to the user device.
14. The method for establishing relational data of claim 13, wherein the computer device transmits the marketing notification through at least one of a mobile device application and a webpage browser.
15. The method for establishing relational data of claim 11, further comprises: detecting, by the positioning system, the user device by three wireless access points according to a triangulation method.
16. The method for establishing relational data of claim 11, wherein the computer device identifies the human activity of the person by a human activity recognition module.
17. The method for establishing relational data of claim 16, wherein the computer device establishes the human activity recognition module through machine learning.
18. The method for establishing relational data of claim 11, wherein the human activity of the person comprises at least one of a reaching recognition and a gazing recognition.
19. The method for establishing relational data of claim 15, wherein each of the three wireless access points is a Wi-Fi access point.
20. The method for establishing relational data of claim 11, wherein the user device identity data comprises a media access control address.
</claims>
</document>
