<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04N21/4402,H04N21/462,H04N21/845
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRIGY MEDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEGEV, AMIR
ZISMAN, GUY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748354
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MULTI-CHANNEL VIEWING
</title>

<abstract>
A computerized method that may include (i) receiving, by one or more slicers, multiple input streams, the multiple input streams comprise (a) an input video stream that comprises visual information obtained from an event, and (b) at least one additional stream related to the event; (ii) converting the multiple input streams to a group of EISCVSs, different input streams are mapped to different EISCVSs; (iii) determining, by one or more personalization entities, a content to be sent to one or more user devices; (iv) generating, by the one or more personalization entities and based on the determining, the at least one personalized content stream to be sent to one or more user devices; and (v) sending the at least one personalized content stream to the one or more user devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computerized method for generating at least one personalized content stream, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more slicers, multiple input streams, the multiple input streams comprise (a) an input video stream that comprises visual information obtained from an event, and (b) at least one additional stream related to the event; converting, by the one or more slicers, the multiple input streams to a group of encoded independent self-contained video streams (EISCVSs); wherein different input streams are mapped to different EISCVSs; determining, by one or more personalization entities, a content to be sent to one or more user devices; generating, by the one or more personalization entities and based on the determining, the at least one personalized content stream to be sent to one or more user devices; and sending the at least one personalized content stream to the one or more user devices; wherein when the content comprises a video content from the input video stream and additional content from one of the at least one additional stream, then the at least one personalized content stream comprises the video content and the additional content.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein when the content comprises the video content and the additional content, then the generating comprises performing aligning between points of time of the event associated with the video content and points of time of the event associated with the additional content.
3. The method according to claim 1 wherein the one or more user devices are a group of user device scheduled for synchronized viewing of the at least one personalized content stream; and wherein the method comprises sending the at least one personalized content stream so that the at least one personalized content stream is displayed simultaneously by the user devices of the group.
4. The method according to claim 3 wherein the method comprises estimating display related parameters of the user devices of the group; and wherein the sending is responsive to the display related parameters.
5. The method according to claim 4 wherein the display related parameters comprise at least one out of delay and transmission rate.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein the converting is responsive to at least one out of a type of the event and a motion parameter of the content.
7. The method according to claim 1 comprising caching at least some of the EISCVSs in network cache memory units, and selectively providing cached EISCVSs to one or more personalization entities.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein the converting is executed by performing a codec-agnostic process.
9. The method according to claim 1 comprising (a) interacting, by the one or more personalization entities, with the one or more user devices, and (b) rendering one or more EISCVSs in a compressed domain.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium that stores instructions for: receiving, by one or more slicers, multiple input streams, the multiple input streams comprise (a) an input video stream that comprises visual information obtained from an event, and (d) at least one additional stream related to the event; converting, by the one or more slicers, the multiple input streams to a group of encoded independent self-contained video streams (EISCVSs); wherein different input streams are mapped to different EISCVSs; determining, by one or more personalization entities, a content to be sent to one or more user devices; generating, by the one or more personalization entities and based on the determining, at least one personalized content stream to be sent to the one or more user devices; and sending the at least one personalized content stream to the one or more user devices; wherein when the content comprises a video content from the input video stream and additional content from one of the at least one additional stream, then the at least one personalized content stream comprises the video content and the additional content.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein when the content comprises the video content and the additional content, then the generating comprises performing aligning between points of time of the event associated with the video content and points of time of the event associated with the additional content.
12. The method according to claim 1 wherein the one or more user devices are a group of user device scheduled for synchronized viewing of the at least one personalized content stream; and wherein the method comprises sending the at least one personalized content stream so that the at least one personalized content stream is displayed simultaneously by the user devices of the group.
13. The method according to claim 3 wherein the method comprises estimating display related parameters of the user devices of the group; and wherein the sending is responsive to the display related parameters.
14. The method according to claim 4 wherein the display related parameters comprise at least one out of delay and transmission rate.
15. The method according to claim 1 wherein the converting is responsive to at least one out of a type of the event and a motion parameter of the content.
16. The method according to claim 1 comprising caching at least some of the EISCVSs in network cache memory units, and selectively providing cached EISCVSs to one or more personalization entities.
17. The method according to claim 1 wherein the converting is executed by performing a codec-agnostic process.
18. The method according to claim 1 comprising (a) interacting, by the one or more personalization entities, with the one or more user devices, and (b) rendering one or more EISCVSs in a compressed domain.
19. A computerized system comprising a one or more slicers and one or more personalization entities configured; wherein the one or more slicers are configured to: receive multiple input streams, the multiple input streams comprise (a) an input video stream that comprises visual information obtained from an event, and (b) at least one additional stream related to the event; and convert the multiple input streams to a group of encoded independent self-contained video streams (EISCVSs); wherein different input streams are mapped to different EISCVSs; wherein the one or more personalization entities are configured to: determine a content to be sent to one or more user devices; and generate, based on the determining, at least one personalized content stream to be sent to the one or more user devices; wherein when the content comprises a video content from the input video stream and additional content from one of the at least one additional stream, then the at least one personalized content stream comprises the video content and the additional content; and wherein the computerized system is configured to send the at least one personalized content stream to the one or more user devices.
</claims>
</document>
