<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/721,H04L12/723,H04L12/803
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOCHKAR, SAI KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69720207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTIVE ROUTING IN MULTI-NETWORK SCENARIOS
</title>

<abstract>
A method of accessing a multiprotocol label switching (MPLS) network includes routing data traffic from a network device to the MPLS network via a primary access network that connects the network device to the MPLS network, measuring a plurality of parameters of the primary access network, predicting a future change in at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network, and routing data traffic to the MPLS network through a secondary access network that connects the network device to the MPLS network based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of accessing a multiprotocol label switching (MPLS) network, comprising: routing data traffic from a network node to the MPLS network through a primary access network that connects the network node to the MPLS network; measuring a plurality of parameters of the primary access network; predicting a future change in at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network; and routing the data traffic to the MPLS network through a secondary access network that connects the network node to the MPLS network based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring a plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; wherein switching the connection to the secondary access network is performed based on a current measurement of the plurality of parameters of the secondary access network.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring a plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; and predicting a future change in at least one of the parameters of the secondary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; wherein switching the connection to the secondary access network is performed based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network and the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the secondary access network.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: balancing a communication load from the network node to the MPLS network between the primary access network and the secondary access network based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein predicting the future change in at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network comprises processing the plurality of parameters of the primary access network via a neural network.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: training the neural network with actual network data from the primary access network to predict changes in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on the plurality of parameters of the primary access network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the parameters of the primary access network comprise an available bandwidth, a quality of service (QoS) policy, a protocol used, a latency, a jitter, a throughput and an availability of network links of the primary access network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one of parameters of the primary access network comprises a throughput of the primary access network.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: predicting the change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on a bandwidth requirement of a service that uses the connection.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising maintaining a label switched path in the MPLS network while the connection is switched from the primary access network to the secondary access network.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the primary access network and the secondary access network connect the network node to a same label edge router in the MPLS network.
12. A distribution switch comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory comprising non-transitory computer readable instructions that configure the processor to: route data traffic from a network node to a multi-protocol label switching (MPLS) network through a primary access network that connects the network node to the MPLS network; measure a plurality of parameters of the primary access network; predict a future change in at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network; and route the data traffic to the MPLS network through a secondary access network that connects the network node to the MPLS network based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network.
13. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein the computer readable instructions further configure the processor to: measure a plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; wherein switching the connection to the secondary access network is performed based on a current measurement of the plurality of parameters of the secondary access network.
14. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein the computer readable instructions further configure the processor to: measure a plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; and predict a future change in at least one of the parameters of the secondary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the secondary access network; wherein switching the connection to the secondary access network is performed based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network and the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the secondary access network.
15. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein the computer readable instructions further configure the processor to: balance a communication load from the network node to the MPLS network between the primary access network and the secondary access network based on the prediction of the future change in the at least one of the parameters of the primary access network.
16. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein predicting the future change in at least one of the parameters of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network comprises processing the plurality of parameters of the primary access network via a neural network.
17. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein the computer readable instructions further configure the processor to: maintain a label switched path in the MPLS network while the connection is switched from the primary access network to the secondary access network.
18. The distribution switch of claim 12, wherein the primary access network and the secondary access network connect the network node to a same label edge router in the MPLS network.
19. A method of accessing a data communication network, comprising: routing data traffic to the data communication network through a primary access network; measuring a plurality of parameters of the primary access network; predicting a future network status of the primary access network based on measurements of the plurality of parameters of the primary access network; routing the data traffic to the data communication network through a secondary access network based on the prediction of the future network status of the primary access network.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: generating an updated prediction of the network status of the primary access network following routing of the data traffic to the data communication network through the secondary access network; and routing additional data traffic to the data communication network through the secondary access network in response to the updated prediction of the network status of the primary access network.
</claims>
</document>
