<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/02,G06F3/023,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0488,G06F3/0489,G06F40/232,G06F40/274,G06F40/279,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALSHARIF, OUAIS
BEAUFAYS, FRANCOISE
BREUEL, THOMAS
OUYANG YU
SCHALKWYK, JOHAN
ZHAI, SHUMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55637492
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Neural Network for Keyboard Input Decoding
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a computing device includes at least one processor; and at least one module, operable by the at least one processor to: output, for display at an output device, a graphical keyboard; receive an indication of a gesture detected at a location of a presence-sensitive input device, wherein the location of the presence-sensitive input device corresponds to a location of the output device that outputs the graphical keyboard; determine, based on at least one spatial feature of the gesture that is processed by the computing device using a neural network, at least one character string, wherein the at least one spatial feature indicates at least one physical property of the gesture; and output, for display at the output device, based at least in part on the processing of the at least one spatial feature of the gesture using the neural network, the at least one character string.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, configure one or more processors to: output a graphical keyboard that includes a plurality of keys; determine current features of at least one input to the graphical keyboard; add the current features to a matrix including previous features; provide the matrix to a model that is trained to predict a word or phrase from the matrix; and output, for display, the word or word phrase predicted by the model.
2. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the current features include: a spatial feature, a temporal feature, a lexical feature, or a contextual feature of the at least one input.
3. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein the spatial feature indicates: a location of the at least one input, a speed of the at least one input, a direction of the at least one input, a curvature of the at least one input, any keys of the plurality of keys traversed by the at least one input, or a type of the at least one input.
4. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein the temporal feature indicates: an epoch time of the at least one input or an international standard notation time of the at least one input.
5. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein the contextual feature indicates: a setting or state of information maintained by a computing device, an identity of a user of the computing device, a geolocation of the computing device, an environment or climate of the computing device, audible or visual information obtained by the computing device, sensor information obtained by the computing device, a type of input field for displaying the word or word phrase predicted by the model, an application for receiving the at least one input to the graphical keyboard.
6. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, configure one or more processors to: output a graphical keyboard that includes a plurality of keys; determine current contextual features of at least one input to the graphical keyboard; generate a matrix based on the current contextual feature and previous contextual features determined from at least one input received by the graphical keyboard prior to the at least one input; provide the matrix to a neural network that predicts a word or word phrase from the matrix; and output, for display, the word or word phrase.
7. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, further comprising instructions that, when executed, configure the one or more processors to: determine additional contextual features from another input to the graphical keyboard; update the matrix to add the additional contextual features to the matrix that already includes the current contextual features and the previous contextual features; and output, for display, another word or phrase predicted by the model in response to providing the updated matrix to the model.
8. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein: each column of the matrix represents a set spatial features of input values sampled during receipt of the at least one input to the graphical keyboard; each row of the matrix represents a unique spatial feature to the set of spatial features; and each cell in the matrix includes an input value of a particular feature at a particular time.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, wherein the matrix is a multi-dimensional array comprising multiple columns and rows.
10. A computing device comprising at least one processor configured to: output a graphical keyboard that includes a plurality of keys; determine current features of at least one input to the graphical keyboard; add the current features to a matrix including previous features; provide the matrix to a model that is trained to predict a word or phrase from the matrix; and output, for display, the word or word phrase predicted by the model.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the current features include: a spatial feature, a temporal feature, a lexical feature, or a contextual feature of the at least one input.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the spatial feature indicates: a location of the at least one input, a speed of the at least one input, a direction of the at least one input, a curvature of the at least one input, any keys of the plurality of keys traversed by the at least one input, or a type of the at least one input.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the temporal feature indicates: an epoch time of the at least one input or an international standard notation time of the at least one input.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the contextual feature indicates: a setting or state of information maintained by a computing device, an identity of a user of the computing device, a geolocation of the computing device, an environment or climate of the computing device, audible or visual information obtained by the computing device, sensor information obtained by the computing device, a type of input field for displaying the word or word phrase predicted by the model, an application for receiving the at least one input to the graphical keyboard.
15. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine current contextual features of the at least one input to the graphical keyboard; generate the matrix based on the current contextual feature and previous contextual features determined from at least one input received by the graphical keyboard prior to the at least one input; and responsive to generating the matrix based on the current contextual feature and the previous contextual features, add the current features to the matrix and provide the matrix to the model.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine additional contextual features from another input to the graphical keyboard; update the matrix to add the additional contextual features to the matrix that already includes the current contextual features and the previous contextual features; and output, for display, another word or phrase predicted by the model in response to providing the updated matrix to the model.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein: each column of the matrix represents a set spatial features of input values sampled during receipt of the at least one input to the graphical keyboard; each row of the matrix represents a unique spatial feature to the set of spatial features; and each cell in the matrix includes an input value of a particular feature at a particular time.
18. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the matrix is a multi-dimensional array comprising multiple columns and rows.
19. The computing device of claim 10, further comprising a display configured to present the graphical keyboard or the word or word phrase when output by the at least one processor.
20. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the computing device comprises a mobile phone, a tablet computer, a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a gaming device, a media player, an e-book reader, a smart watch, or a television platform.
</claims>
</document>
