<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,G01N23/046,G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
TANG BING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64562049
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MEDICAL IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include obtaining an initial image that is captured by scanning a scan object using the imaging device. The method may also include performing an iteration process including one or more iterations. Each of the one or more iterations may include determining, according to a thickness model, an equivalent thickness associated with the scan object based on a brightness of a first image and the target brightness, determining one or more second exposure parameters corresponding to the equivalent thickness and the target brightness based on the thickness model, and generating a second image by directing the imaging device to scan the scan object based on the one or more second exposure parameters using the imaging device. The first image may be the initial image in a first iteration of the one or more iterations or an image generated in a previous iteration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for medical imaging, comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to cause the system to perform operations including: obtaining a plurality of imaging parameters related to an X-ray generator and a detector of an imaging device; determining image magnification of the imaging device; determining one or more adjusted parameters by adjusting, based on the image magnification, one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters; and generating an image corresponding to the image magnification by causing, based on the one or more adjusted parameters, the imaging device to perform a first scan on an object.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the image magnification during the first scan is different from an image magnification during a second scan immediately prior to the first scan.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the generated image has better image quality than an image generated based on the one or more non-adjusted parameters of the plurality of imaging parameters.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more adjusted parameters include one or more first parameters of the detector including at least one of a pixel size, an image readout mode, an integration time, a frame rate, or X-ray dose on the detector, or one or more second parameters of the X-ray generator including at least one of a focal spot size, a pulse frequency, a pulse width, or a radiation power.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein determining the one or more adjusted parameters by adjusting, based on the image magnification, the one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters including: determining the pixel size and the focal spot size based on the image magnification; and determining the X-ray dose on the detector based on the pixel size and the focal spot size.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more adjusted parameters include location information associated with the X-ray generator, the detector, and the object.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the location information includes at least one of a source image distance (SID), a source object distance (SOD), or an image object distance (IOD).
8. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more adjusted parameters by adjusting, based on the image magnification, the one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters includes: obtaining target image quality; and adjusting, based on the image magnification and the target image quality, the one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein obtaining the plurality of imaging parameters includes: obtaining target image quality; and determining, based on the target image quality, the plurality of imaging parameters.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the target image quality includes at least one of an image contrast or an image resolution.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more adjusted parameters by adjusting, based on the image magnification, the one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters includes: obtaining information associated with the object; and determining the one or more adjusted parameters based on the image magnification and the information associated with the object.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the information associated with the object includes at least one of a composition of the object or X-ray attenuation through the object.
13. A system for medical imaging, comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to cause the system to perform operations including: obtaining a first image that is acquired by scanning a scan object using the imaging device; and determining an equivalent thickness associated with the scan object based on a thickness model, a target brightness, and a brightness of the first image; determining, based on the thickness model, the one or more exposure parameters corresponding to the equivalent thickness and the target brightness; and generating a second image by causing the imaging device to scan the scan object based on the one or more exposure parameters.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein determining the equivalent thickness associated with the scan object based on the thickness model, the target brightness, and the brightness of the first image includes: determining a ratio of the target brightness to the brightness of the first image; determining, based on the thickness model, a reference thickness corresponding to the target brightness and one or more exposure parameters associated with the first image; and determining the equivalent thickness based on the ratio and the reference thickness.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the thickness model is provided by: obtaining a plurality of sample images that are captured by scanning samples having different thicknesses using the imaging device, each of the plurality of sample images relating to a thickness of one of the samples, brightness, and one or more sample exposure parameters; and obtaining the thickness model by curve fitting of the thicknesses, the brightness of the plurality of sample images, and the sample exposure parameters related to the plurality of sample images.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein a brightness of the second image satisfies the target brightness.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein generating the second image by causing the imaging device to scan the scan object based on the one or more exposure parameters includes: performing one or more scans on the scan object until the second image whose brightness satisfies the target brightness is generated.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the count of the one or more scans is lower than or equal to 5.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more exposure parameters include at least one of a tube voltage associated with the X-ray generator, a tube current associated with the X-ray generator, a filtration mode, a beam field size, a radiation time, or a source image distance (SID).
20. A method for medical imaging implemented on a machine including one or more processors and one or more storage devices, comprising: obtaining a plurality of imaging parameters related to an X-ray generator and a detector of an imaging device; determining image magnification of the imaging device; determining one or more adjusted parameters by adjusting, based on the image magnification, one or more of the plurality of imaging parameters; and generating an image corresponding to the image magnification by causing, based on the one or more adjusted parameters, the imaging device to perform a first scan on an object.
</claims>
</document>
