<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,G06K9/62,G06N20/20,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN WEIPENG
BAHRAMI, MEHDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097890
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED MACHINE-LEARNING-BASED TICKET RESOLUTION FOR SYSTEM RECOVERY
</title>

<abstract>
A method of automated ticket resolution comprises training and testing feature-specific classifier models using ticket database records. The feature-specific classifier models include machine-learning-based classification models related to features of a ticket system. The method includes training and testing feature-specific solution models using resolved ticket solution database records. The feature-specific classifier models include machine-learning-based solution models related to the features. The method includes receiving a ticket inquiry including a ticket indicative of an issue related to the features, generating a problem statement representative of the issue using the tested classifier models, and communicating the problem statement to the tested solution models. The method includes predicting a solution to the problem statement by using the tested solution models. The solution includes directions to resolve the ticket. The method includes implementing the solution in the system to resolve the issue based on certainty characteristics of the solution and recover a system if required.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of automated ticket resolution, the method comprising: training feature-specific classifier models using a first portion of ticket database records, the feature-specific classifier models including two or more machine-learning based classification models that are each related to one feature of a plurality of features of a system; testing the feature-specific classifier models using a second portion of the ticket database records; training feature-specific solution models using a first portion of resolved ticket solution database data, the feature-specific classifier models including two or more machine-learning based solution models that are each related to one feature of the plurality of features of the system; testing the feature-specific solution model using a second portion of the resolved ticket solution database data; receiving a ticket inquiry, the ticket inquiry including a ticket that is indicative of an issue in the system and that is related to one or more features of the plurality of features; generating a problem statement representative of the issue using the tested feature-specific classifier models, the problem statement being associated with the one or more features of the ticket inquiry; communicating the generated problem statement to the feature-specific solution models; predicting a solution to the generated problem statement using the feature-specific solution models, the predicted solution including a set of directions to resolve the ticket and one or more certainty characteristics of the predicted solution; and based on the certainty characteristics, implementing the predicted solution in the system to resolve the issue.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the ticket inquiry is received directly from a live user ticket interface; or the ticket inquiry is received from a live user ticket interface via an application programming interface (API).
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising preparing the first portion of ticket database records prior to training the feature-specific classifier model.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a risk of the predicted solution, wherein responsive to the predicted solution being above a risk threshold, the predicted solution is automatically implemented to resolve the issue.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the ticket database records includes classification information from a managed customer service department related to the system that is collected by one or more customer service agents in response to manually entered tickets, the classification information including one or more or a combination of customer information, billing information, problem information issued as a ticket, affected area information, reporter person information, ticket log information, timestamp information, other detail information related to the problem information, and attachments related to tickets; and the resolved ticket solution database data includes solution information from the managed customer service department, the solution information including solutions to records in a ticket database.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the certainty characteristics include risk and confidence; the method further comprises calculating the risk of the predicted solution and the confidence of the predicted solution based on the ticket database records and the resolved ticket solution database data; responsive to the calculated risk being above a risk threshold and the calculated confidence be above a confidence threshold, the predicted solution is implemented automatically without action by a human; and responsive to the calculated risk being below the risk threshold and the calculated confidence be below the confidence threshold, the predicted solution is implemented at least partially through an action of a human or under a direction of the human.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising retraining the feature-specific classifier models using the predicted solution and the generated problem statement.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting the one or more features in the ticket; and communicating the ticket to one of the feature-specific classifier models that correspond to the detected features of the ticket.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first portion of the ticket database records is about 70% of a total amount of the ticket database records; and the second portion of the ticket database records is about 30% of a total amount of the ticket database records.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of features includes one or more or a combination of a priority, a module, an assignment, an assigned group, and an affected area.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having encoded therein programming code executable by one or more processors to perform or control performance of operations comprising: training feature-specific classifier models using a first portion of ticket database records, the feature-specific classifier models including two or more machine-learning based classification models that are each related to one feature of a plurality of features of a system; testing the feature-specific classifier models using a second portion of the ticket database records; training feature-specific solution models using a first portion of resolved ticket solution database data, the feature-specific classifier models including two or more machine-learning based solution models that are each related to one feature of the plurality of features of the system; testing the feature-specific solution model using a second portion of the resolved ticket solution database data; receiving a ticket inquiry, the ticket inquiry including a ticket that is indicative of an issue in the system and that is related to one or more features of the plurality of features; generating a problem statement representative of the issue using the tested feature-specific classifier models, the problem statement being associated with the one or more features of the ticket inquiry; communicating the generated problem statement to the feature-specific solution models; predicting a solution to the generated problem statement using the feature-specific solution models, the predicted solution including a set of directions to resolve the ticket and one or more certainty characteristics of the predicted solution; and based on the certainty characteristics, implementing the predicted solution in the system to resolve the issue.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the ticket inquiry is received directly from a live user ticket interface; or the ticket inquiry is received from a live user ticket interface via an application programming interface (API).
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise preparing the first portion of ticket database records prior to training the feature-specific classifier model.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the operations further comprise calculating a risk of the predicted solution; and responsive to the predicted solution being above a risk threshold, the predicted solution is automatically implemented to resolve the issue.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the ticket database records includes classification information from a managed customer service department related to the system that is collected by one or more customer service agents in response to manually entered tickets, the classification information including one or more or a combination of customer information, billing information, problem information issued as a ticket, affected area information, reporter person information, ticket log information, timestamp information, other detail information related to the problem information, and attachments related to tickets; and the resolved ticket solution database data includes solution information from the managed customer service department, the solution information including solutions to records in a ticket database.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the certainty characteristics include risk and confidence; the operations further comprise calculating the risk of the predicted solution and the confidence of the predicted solution based on the ticket database records and the resolved ticket solution database data; responsive to the calculated risk being above a risk threshold and the calculated confidence be above a confidence threshold, the predicted solution is implemented automatically without action by a human; and responsive to the calculated risk being below the risk threshold and the calculated confidence be below the confidence threshold, the predicted solution is implemented at least partially through an action of a human or under a direction of the human.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise retraining the feature-specific classifier models using the predicted solution and the generated problem statement.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting the one or more features in the ticket; and communicating the ticket to one of the feature-specific classifier models that correspond to the detected features of the ticket.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the first portion of the ticket database records is about 70% of a total amount of the ticket database records; and the second portion of the ticket database records is about 30% of a total amount of the ticket database records.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the plurality of features includes one or more or a combination of a priority, a module, an assignment, an assigned group, and an affected area.
</claims>
</document>
