<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G07C3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELLAY, TIMOTHY EDWARD
ELIYAHU, PNINA
LIU, QIAN
RAZA, SYED FARHAN
ROTH, NATHANIEL GUNTHER
UDIPI, RAHUL ANANTHA PADMANABHA
WAGLE, JUSTIN JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458522
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Personalized Classification of Journey Data Captured by One or More Movement-Sensing Devices
</title>

<abstract>
A technique is described herein for automatically logging journeys taken by a user, and then automatically classifying the purposes of the journeys. In one implementation, the technique obtains journey data from one or more movement-sensing devices as a user travels from a starting location to an ending location in a vehicle. The technique generates a set of features based on the journey data, and then uses a machine-trainable model (such as a neural network) to make its classification based on the features. The machine-trainable model accepts at least one feature that is based on statistical information regarding at least one aspect of prior journeys that the user has taken. Overall, the technique provides a resource-efficient solution that rapidly provides personalized results to individual respective users. In some implementations, the technique performs its personalization without sharing journey data with a remote server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computing devices for assisting a user in classifying journeys, comprising: hardware logic circuitry, the hardware logic circuitry corresponding to: (a) one or more hardware processors that perform operations by executing machine-readable instructions stored in a memory, and/or (b) one or more other hardware logic components that perform operations using a task-specific collection of logic gates, the operations including: receiving a machine-trainable model from a backend system, the backend system being implemented by one or more servers; in a model-assisted classification procedure: receiving journey data that describes a journey taken by a user using a vehicle, the journey data being automatically captured in response to the user moving from a starting location to an ending location at a given time, the journey data being generated based on signals provided by at least one movement-sensing device associated with a user computing device, as the user traverses the journey; generating a set of features that characterize the journey data; using the machine-trainable model to automatically classify a purpose of the journey based on the features, to generate a proposed classification; presenting the proposed classification on a user interface presentation with zero, one, or more other proposed classifications, the user interface presentation presenting a first graphical control for changing the proposed classification to another classification, and a second graphical control for confirming all of the proposed classifications in the user interface presentation; and receiving an input signal that indicates that the user has confirmed a specified classification of the journey by activating the second graphical control, the specified classification corresponding to the proposed classification or a modification to the proposed classification as selected by the user by activating the first graphical control, repeating a manual classification procedure and/or the model-assisted classification procedure a plurality of times, personalization of the machine-trainable model for the user increasing as the user successively provides input signals to manually classify journeys via the manual classification procedure and/or confirms specified classifications via the model-assisted classification procedure, the personalization increasing in response to, at least in part, progressive refinement of the set of features.
2. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further include, in the manual classification procedure: receiving other journey data associated with another journey; presenting information regarding the other journey data on another user interface presentation, the other user interface presentation including information regarding the other journey, together with a third graphical control that allows the user to manually classify the other journey; and receiving an input signal from the user which specifies a manual classification made by the user of the other journey by activating the third graphical control.
3. The one or more computing devices of claim 2, wherein said model-assisted classification procedure is made available to the user after the user has classified a prescribed number of journeys using the manual classification procedure.
4. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the proposed classification indicates whether the journey is a business-related journey or a personal journey.
5. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the proposed classification is selected from a set of three of more possible classifications.
6. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the personalization is achieved without retraining the machine-trainable model.
7. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the operations further include updating a count of a number of journeys that have been assigned to the specified classification, in response to said receiving of the input signal, wherein a subsequent instance of said generating of the set of features depends, in part, on the count, and wherein the personalization depends, in part, on the count.
8. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein at least one feature is based on statistical information regarding at least one aspect of prior journeys that the user has taken.
9. The one or more computing devices of claim 8, wherein a feature is based, at least in part, on a number of times that the user has visited the ending location for a particular purpose.
10. The one or more computing devices of claim 8, wherein a feature is based, at least in part, on a number of times that the user has taken a journey at the given time for a particular purpose.
11. The one or more computing devices claim 8, wherein a feature is based, at least in part, on a statistical measure of distances of previous journeys that the user has taken for a particular purpose.
12. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein a feature is based on a classification of a preceding and/or subsequent journey that the user has taken, with respect to the journey for which the classification is made.
13. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the machine-trainable model is a neural network.
14. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the model-assisted procedure is performed for a batch of journeys to generate a batch of proposed classifications, wherein said presenting comprises presenting the batch of proposed classifications to the user via the user interface presentation, and wherein said receiving an input signal comprises receiving an indication that the user has confirmed specified classifications associated with the entire batch of journeys, each specified classification corresponding to a proposed classification as originally provided or a classification as modified by the user.
15. The one or more computing devices of claim 1, wherein the progressive refinement of the set of features is performed on a local computing device associated with the user.
16. A computer-readable storage medium for storing computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions, when executed by one or more hardware processors, performing a method that comprises: in a model-assisted classification procedure: receiving journey data that describes a journey taken by a user using a vehicle, the journey data being automatically captured in response to the user moving from a starting location to an ending location at a given time; generating a set of features that characterize the journey data; using a journey-classifying engine to automatically classify a purpose of the journey based on the features, to generate a proposed classification; presenting the proposed classification on a user interface presentation; and receiving an input signal that indicates that the user has confirmed a specified classification of the journey, via interaction by the user with the user interface presentation, the specified classification corresponding to the proposed classification or modification to the proposed classification as selected by the user via the user interface presentation; and in a manual classification procedure: receiving other journey data associated with another journey; presenting information regarding the other journey data on another user interface presentation; and receiving an input signal from the user which specifies a manual classification made by the user of the other journey, via interaction by the user with the other user interface presentation, repeating the manual classification procedure and/or the model-assisted classification procedure a plurality of times, personalization of the journey-classifying engine for the user increasing as the user successively provides input signals to manually classify journeys via the manual classification procedure and/or confirms specified classifications via the model-assisted classification procedure, each instance of journey data associated with a particular journey being generated based on signals provided by at least one movement-sensing device associated with a user computing device, as the user traverses the particular journey.
17. A method, implemented by one or more computing devices, comprising, in a model-assisted classification procedure: receiving journey data that describes a journey taken by a user using a vehicle, the journey data being automatically captured in response to the user moving from a starting location to an ending location at a given time, the journey data being generated based on signals provided by at least one movement-sensing device associated with a user computing device, as the user traverses the journey; generating a set of features that characterize the journey data, at least one feature being based on statistical information regarding at least one aspect of prior journeys that the user has taken; using a journey-classifying engine to automatically classify a purpose of the journey based on the features, to generate a proposed classification; and presenting the proposed classification on a user interface presentation, said generating, using, and presenting being performed, at least in part, on a local computing device, based on locally-stored journey data.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving an input signal that indicates that the user has confirmed a specified classification of the journey, via interaction by the user with the user interface presentation, the specified classification corresponding to the proposed classification or a modification to the proposed classification as selected by the user via the user interface presentation, repeating a manual classification procedure and/or the model-assisted classification procedure a plurality of times, personalization of the journey-classifying engine for the user increasing as the user successively provides input signals to manually classify journeys via a manual classification procedure and/or confirms specified classifications via the model-assisted classification procedure.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein said at least one feature includes: a feature that is based, at least in part, on a number of times that the user has visited the ending location for a particular purpose; and/or a feature that is based, at least in part, on a number of times that the user has taken a journey at the given time for a particular purpose; and/or a feature that is based, at least in part, on a statistical measure of distances of previous journeys that the user has taken for a particular purpose.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein said generating is performed for a batch of journeys to generate a batch of proposed classifications, wherein said presenting comprises presenting the batch of proposed classifications to the user via the user interface presentation, the method further including receiving an input signal that provides an indication that the user has confirmed specified classifications associated with the entire batch of journeys, each specified classification corresponding to a proposed classification as originally provided or a classification as modified by the user.
</claims>
</document>
