<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6876,G16B20/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DUKE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GINSBURG, GEOFFREY S.
WOODS, CHRISTOPHER, W.
TSALIK, EPHRAIM L.
GIRALDO, RICARDO HENAO
MYERS, RACHEL A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62979619
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENE EXPRESSION SIGNATURES USEFUL TO PREDICT OR DIAGNOSE SEPSIS AND METHODS OF USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides methods for determining whether a subject has sepsis, or is at risk of developing sepsis, and methods of treating the subject based on the determination. Also provided are methods for determining an increased risk of mortality in a subject with sepsis or suspected of having sepsis, and methods of treating the subject based on the determination. Systems useful for the same are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining an increased risk of mortality in a subject with sepsis or suspected of having sepsis, comprising: providing a biological sample of the subject; and measuring on a platform differential expression of a pre-defined set of genes, comprising: i) an increase in expression of one, two, or three or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, and PLK1; and/or ii) a decrease in expression of two, three, four or five or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8; wherein said subject is identified as having an increased risk of mortality when said i) increase in expression and/or said ii) decrease in expression is present.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said differential expression comprises: i) an increase in expression of one, two, or three or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, and PLK1; and ii) a decrease in expression of two, three, four or five or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said differential expression comprises: i) an increase in expression of two or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, and PLK1; and/or ii) a decrease in expression of three or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said differential expression comprises: i) an increase in expression of three or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, and PLK1; and/or ii) a decrease in expression of four or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said differential expression comprises: i) an increase in expression of four or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, and PLK1; and/or ii) a decrease in expression of five or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring further comprises measuring differential expression of additional genes selected from those listed in Table 3 and/or Table 4.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring comprises or is preceded by one or more steps of: purifying cells from said sample, breaking the cells of said sample, and isolating RNA from said sample.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said measuring comprises semi-quantitative PCR and/or nucleic acid probe hybridization.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said platform comprises an array platform, a thermal cycler platform, a hybridization and multi-signal coded detector platform, a nucleic acid mass spectrometry platform, a nucleic acid sequencing platform, or a combination thereof.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is suffering from symptoms of sepsis and/or is suspected of having sepsis.
11. (canceled)
12. The method of claim 1, said method further comprising treating said subject for sepsis when said subject is identified as having an increased risk of mortality.
13. A method of treating sepsis in a subject comprising administering to said subject an appropriate treatment regimen when said subject is determined to have an increased risk of mortality by a method of claim 1.
14. A system for determining an increased risk of mortality in a subject with sepsis or suspected of having sepsis, comprising: at least one processor; a sample input circuit configured to receive a biological sample from the subject; a sample analysis circuit coupled to the at least one processor and configured to determine gene expression levels of the biological sample of a set of pre-determined genes, said pre-determined genes comprising two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten or more genes selected from the group consisting of: TRIB1, CKS2, MKI67, POLD3, PLK1, TGFBI, LY86, CST3, CBFA2T3, RCBTB2, TST, CX3CR1, CD5, MTMR11, CLEC10A, EMR3, DHRS7B, and CEACAM8; an input/output circuit coupled to the at least one processor; a storage circuit coupled to the at least one processor and configured to store data, parameters, and/or gene set(s); and a memory coupled to the processor and comprising computer readable program code embodied in the memory that when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: controlling/performing measurement via the sample analysis circuit of gene expression levels of the pre-defined set of genes in said biological sample; normalizing the gene expression levels to generate normalized gene expression values; retrieving from the storage circuit pre-defined weighting values (i.e., coefficients) for each of the genes of the pre-defined set of genes; calculating a probability of mortality due to sepsis based upon weighted values of the normalized gene expression values; and controlling output via the input/output circuit of a determination of mortality risk.
15. The system of claim 14, where said system comprises computer readable code to transform quantitative, or semi-quantitative, detection of gene expression to a cumulative score or probability of mortality due to sepsis.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein said system comprises an array platform, a thermal cycler platform, a hybridization and multi-signal coded detector platform, a nucleic acid mass spectrometry platform, a nucleic acid sequencing platform, or a combination thereof.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the pre-defined set of genes comprises from 5 to 100 or 200 genes.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the pre-defined set of genes comprises one or more genes listed in Table 3 and/or Table 4.
19. A method for determining whether a subject has sepsis or is at risk of developing sepsis, such as ventilator associated pneumonia, comprising: providing a biological sample of the subject; and measuring on a platform differential expression of a pre-defined set of genes, comprising: i) an increase in expression of two, three, four or five or more genes selected from the group consisting of: PCBP1, TMBIM6, LASP1, KLF2, OS9, APMAP, CD14, NAMPT, NQO2, CDK5RAP2; and/or ii) a decrease in expression of two, three, four or five or more genes selected from the group consisting of: SIGLEC10, TSC22D3, RCN3, LST1, HBA1, FGR, TYMP, ATG16L2, CEACAM4, PECAM1, HMHA1, APOBEC3A, P2RX1; wherein said subject is identified as having sepsis or at risk of developing sepsis when said i) increase in expression and/or said ii) decrease in expression is present.
20. 20.-26. (canceled)
27. A system for determining whether a subject has sepsis or is at risk of developing sepsis, such as ventilator associated pneumonia, comprising: at least one processor; a sample input circuit configured to receive a biological sample from the subject; a sample analysis circuit coupled to the at least one processor and configured to determine gene expression levels of the biological sample of a set of pre-determined genes, said pre-determined genes comprising two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, or ten or more genes selected from the group consisting of: PCBP1, TMBIM6, LASP1, KLF2, OS9, APMAP, CD14, NAMPT, NQO2, CDK5RAP2, SIGLEC10, TSC22D3, RCN3, LST1, HBA1, FGR, TYMP, ATG16L2, CEACAM4, PECAM1, HMHA1, APOBEC3A, and P2RX1; an input/output circuit coupled to the at least one processor; a storage circuit coupled to the at least one processor and configured to store data, parameters, and/or gene set(s); and a memory coupled to the processor and comprising computer readable program code embodied in the memory that when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: controlling/performing measurement via the sample analysis circuit of gene expression levels of the pre-defined set of genes in said biological sample; normalizing the gene expression levels to generate normalized gene expression values; retrieving from the storage circuit pre-defined weighting values (i.e., coefficients) for each of the genes of the pre-defined set of genes; calculating a probability of sepsis based upon weighted values of the normalized gene expression values; and controlling output via the input/output circuit of a determination of sepsis.
28. 28.-30. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
