<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/13,G06T7/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLEIN, MORAN
ZATZARINNI, RONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72747734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, SYSTEMS, ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE, AND APPARATUS TO ENHANCE IMAGE DEPTH CONFIDENCE MAPS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, articles of manufacture, and apparatus to enhance image depth confidence maps are disclosed. An apparatus includes a gradient analyzer to: generate an image gradient based on a digital image of a scene; and generate a depth gradient based on a depth map associated with the digital image. The depth map is to define depth values corresponding to pixels in the digital image. The apparatus further includes an enhanced confidence map analyzer to determine an enhanced confidence map for the depth map based on the image gradient, the depth gradient, and an initial confidence map for the depth map.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a gradient analyzer to: generate an image gradient based on a digital image of a scene; and generate a depth gradient based on a depth map associated with the digital image, the depth map to define depth values corresponding to pixels in the digital image; and an enhanced confidence map analyzer to determine an enhanced confidence map for the depth map based on the image gradient, the depth gradient, and an initial confidence map for the depth map.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the enhanced confidence map analyzer is to define first confidence values included in the enhanced confidence map, the first confidence values indicative of first confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, the initial confidence map to include second confidence values indicative of second confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, a first set of the first confidence values to satisfy a first threshold, a second set of the second confidence values to satisfy the first threshold, the first set of confidence values corresponding to a first set of the depth values, the second set of confidence values corresponding to a second set of the depth values, the first set of depth values more accurately representing depths of surfaces in the scene than the second set of depth values.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first set of confidence values is to include a first number of confidence values and the second set of confidence values is to include a second number of confidence values, the first number greater than the second number.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the second set of confidence values are to be positioned throughout the initial confidence map in a manner that results in a plurality of holes associated with a third set of the second confidence values, the second set of confidence values excluding the third set of confidence values, the enhanced confidence map analyzer to define ones of the first confidence values in the first set of confidence values corresponding to ones of the second confidence values in the third set of confidence values.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first set of depth values are to correspond to a first placement of pixels in the digital image and the second set of depth values are to correspond to a second placement of pixels in the digital image, the first placement of pixels more aligned with edges of objects in the scene represented in the digital image than the second placement of pixels.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the enhanced confidence map analyzer is to determine the enhanced confidence map without processing a cost volume associated with the depth map.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the enhanced confidence map corresponds to values of a matrix parameter that reduces a function of the matrix parameter.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function is based on a Euclidean norm of a difference between the initial confidence map and the matrix parameter.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function approaches a minimum as the matrix parameter approaches the initial confidence map.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function is based on a Euclidean norm of the matrix parameter multiplied by (1) a first output of a first threshold function applied to the image gradient and (2) a second output of a second threshold function applied to the depth gradient.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first threshold function is a monotonic decreasing threshold function and the second threshold function is a monotonic increasing threshold function.
12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function approaches a minimum as first values of the matrix parameter are reduced, the first values corresponding to regions in the digital image and the depth map associated with (1) outputs of the image gradient below a first threshold and (2) outputs of the depth gradient above a second threshold.
13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function is based on a Euclidean norm of a gradient of the matrix parameter multiplied by an output of a threshold function applied to the image gradient.
14. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the function approaches a minimum when a discontinuity between adjacent values in the matrix parameter align with an edge of an object in the scene represented in the digital image, the edge in the digital image identified by the image gradient.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, causes a machine to at least: generate an image gradient based on a digital image of a scene; generate a depth gradient based on a depth map associated with the digital image, the depth map to define depth values corresponding to pixels in the digital image; and determine an enhanced confidence map for the depth map based on the image gradient, the depth gradient, and an initial confidence map for the depth map.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the machine to define first confidence values included in the enhanced confidence map, the first confidence values indicative of first confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, the initial confidence map to include second confidence values indicative of second confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, a first set of the first confidence values to satisfy a first threshold, a second set of the second confidence values to satisfy the first threshold, the first set of confidence values corresponding to a first set of the depth values, the second set of confidence values corresponding to a second set of the depth values, the first set of depth values more accurately representing depths of surfaces in the scene than the second set of depth values.
17. 17-19. (canceled)
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the machine to determine the enhanced confidence map without processing a cost volume associated with the depth map.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the enhanced confidence map corresponds to values of a matrix parameter that reduces a function of the matrix parameter.
22. 22-28. (canceled)
29. A method comprising: generating, by executing an instruction with a logic circuit, an image gradient based on a digital image of a scene; generating, by executing an instruction with the logic circuit, a depth gradient based on a depth map associated with the digital image, the depth map to define depth values corresponding to pixels in the digital image; and determining, by executing an instruction with the logic circuit, an enhanced confidence map for the depth map based on the image gradient, the depth gradient, and an initial confidence map for the depth map.
30. The method of claim 29, further including defining first confidence values included in the enhanced confidence map, the first confidence values indicative of first confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, the initial confidence map to include second confidence values indicative of second confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, a first set of the first confidence values to satisfy a first threshold, a second set of the second confidence values to satisfy the first threshold, the first set of confidence values corresponding to a first set of the depth values, the second set of confidence values corresponding to a second set of the depth values, the first set of depth values more accurately representing depths of surfaces in the scene than the second set of depth values.
31. 31-42. (canceled)
43. The method of claim 29, wherein the logic circuit is a processor.
44. The method of claim 29, wherein the logic circuit is a neural network hardware accelerator.
45. An apparatus comprising: means for generating gradients to: generate an image gradient based on a digital image of a scene; and generate a depth gradient based on a depth map associated with the digital image, the depth map to define depth values corresponding to pixels in the digital image; and means for generating an enhanced confidence map for the depth map based on the image gradient, the depth gradient, and an initial confidence map for the depth map.
46. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the means for generating the enhanced confidence map is to define first confidence values included in the enhanced confidence map, the first confidence values indicative of first confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, the initial confidence map to include second confidence values indicative of second confidence levels for the depth values in the depth map, a first set of the first confidence values to satisfy a first threshold, a second set of the second confidence values to satisfy the first threshold, the first set of confidence values corresponding to a first set of the depth values, the second set of confidence values corresponding to a second set of the depth values, the first set of depth values more accurately representing depths of surfaces in the scene than the second set of depth values.
47. 47-49. (canceled)
50. The apparatus of claim 45, wherein the means for generating the enhanced confidence map is to determine the enhanced confidence map without processing a cost volume associated with the depth map.
51. 51-58. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
