<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/00,G06F3/01,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EVOLUTION OPTIKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOC, MATEJ
JOLY, JEAN-FRANÇOIS
LUSSIER, GUILLAUME
GARCIA, Yaiza
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103061
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LIGHT FIELD DISLAY, ADJUSTED PIXEL RENDERING METHOD THEREFOR, AND ADJUSTED VISION PERCEPTION SYSTEM AND METHOD USING SAME ADDRESSING ASTIGMATISM OR SIMILAR CONDITIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Described are various embodiments of a light field display, adjusted pixel rendering method and computer-readable medium therefor, and vision correction system and method using same addressing astigmatism or similar conditions. In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method is provided to automatically adjust user perception of an input image to be rendered on a digital display via a set of pixels thereof, wherein the digital display has an array of light field shaping elements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device operable to dynamically adjust user perception of an input image, the device comprising: an array of digital display pixels; a corresponding array of light field shaping elements (LFSEs) shaping a light field emanating from said pixels; and a hardware processor operable on pixel data for the input image to output adjusted image pixel data to be rendered via said LFSEs to dynamically adjust perception of the input image as so rendered to at least partially accommodate a designated visual acuity accommodation defined by a designated variable optical vision parameter that varies across user pupil locations, by digitally: for each given pixel, defining a corresponding location on an adjusted image surface as a function of a direction of a given light field emanated by said given pixel given a corresponding LFSE and said designated variable optical vision parameter for a given pupil location intersected by said given light field; associating an adjusted image pixel value with said given pixel given said corresponding location on said adjusted image surface; and rendering each said given pixel according to said adjusted pixel value associated therewith, thereby perceptively rendering a perceptively adjusted version of the input image that at least partially accommodates said designated visual acuity accommodation.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein said hardware processor is further operable to digitally project a given ray trace between said given pixel and said given pupil location; and identify said designated variable optical vision parameter for said given pupil location.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein said designated visual acuity accommodation comprises a spherical optical power correction, a cylindrical optical power correction and a cylindrical axis correction, and wherein said designated variable optical vision parameter is respectively designated as a function of said designated visual acuity accommodation for each said given pupil location.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein, for at least some said given pixel, said adjusted image surface comprises a respective virtual image plane virtually positioned relative to the digital display pixels at a designated distance from said user pupil and corresponding with a respective said designated variable optical vision parameter identified for said given pupil location, and wherein said hardware processor is further operable to digitally map the input image on said respective virtual image plane and associate said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein said adjusted image surface comprises a user retinal plane; and wherein said defining said adjusted image location comprises digitally redirecting a given ray trace at said given pupil location according to said designated variable optical vision parameter so to intersect said retinal plane at said adjusted image location, wherein said hardware processor is further operable to digitally map the input image on said user retinal plane and associate said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein said redirecting comprises: deriving from said given pupil location and said designated optical vision parameter defined therefor, an offset pupil location through which a corresponding ray trace is estimated to propagate substantially undeviated by an eye to a corresponding eye focal point on a user eye focal plane, wherein said offset pupil location is digitally calculated as a function of a spherical optical power parameter, a cylindrical optical power parameter and a cylindrical optical axis parameter; and redirecting said given ray trace toward said eye focal point so to intersect said user retinal plane at said adjusted image location.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein said hardware processor is further operable to adjust said designated variable optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation until an optimal visual acuity accommodation is identified, wherein said optimal visual acuity accommodation comprises an optimal astigmatism accommodation.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein said hardware processor is further operable to adjust said designated variable optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation to provide a preview of a relative visual impact of said distinct visual acuity accommodation.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein said designated visual acuity accommodation comprises an astigmatism accommodation.
10. A computer-implemented method, automatically implemented by one or more digital processors, to dynamically adjust user perception of an input image to be rendered by an array of digital display pixels via a corresponding array of light field shaping elements (LFSE) to at least partially accommodate a designated visual acuity accommodation defined by a designated variable optical vision parameter that varies across user pupil locations, the method comprising, for each given pixel: defining a corresponding location on an adjusted image surface as a function of a direction of a given light field emanated by said given pixel given a corresponding LFSE and said designated variable optical vision parameter for a given pupil location intersected by said given light field; associating an adjusted image pixel value with said given pixel given said corresponding location on said adjusted image surface; and rendering each said given pixel according to said adjusted pixel value associated therewith, thereby perceptively rendering a perceptively adjusted version of the input image that at least partially accommodates said designated visual acuity accommodation.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: digitally projecting a given ray trace between said given pixel and said given pupil location; and identifying said designated variable optical vision parameter for said given pupil location.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein said designated visual acuity accommodation comprises a spherical optical power correction, a cylindrical optical power correction and a cylindrical axis correction, and wherein said designated variable optical vision parameter is respectively designated as a function of said designated visual acuity accommodation for each said given pupil location.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein, for at least some said given pixel, said adjusted image surface comprises a respective virtual image plane virtually positioned relative to the digital display pixels at a designated distance from said user pupil and corresponding with a respective said designated variable optical vision parameter identified for said given pupil location, and wherein the method further comprises digitally mapping the input image on said respective virtual image plane and associating said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises digitally mapping the input image on said respective virtual image plane and associating said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping, wherein a mapping area of at least some said respective virtual image plane is defined by a non-rectangular convex quadrilateral area.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein said adjusted image surface comprises a user retinal plane; and wherein said defining said adjusted image location comprises digitally redirecting a given ray trace at said given pupil location according to said designated variable optical vision parameter so to intersect said retinal plane at said adjusted image location, wherein the method further comprises digitally mapping the input image on said user retinal plane and associating said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein said redirecting comprises: deriving from said given pupil location and said designated optical vision parameter defined therefor, an offset pupil location through which a corresponding ray trace is estimated to propagate substantially undeviated to a corresponding eye focal point on a user eye focal plane, wherein said offset pupil location is digitally calculated as a function of a spherical optical power parameter, a cylindrical optical power parameter and a cylindrical optical axis parameter; and redirecting said given ray trace toward said eye focal point so to intersect said user retinal plane at said adjusted image location.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising adjusting said designated variable optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation until an optimal visual acuity accommodation is identified, wherein said optimal visual acuity accommodation comprises an optimal astigmatism accommodation.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein each said designated visual acuity accommodation is defined by a designated optical vision parameter comprising a spherical power, a cylindrical power and an optical axis parameter.
19. The method of claim 10, further comprising adjusting said designated optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation to provide a preview of a relative visual impact of said distinct visual acuity accommodation.
20. The method of claim 10, wherein said designated visual acuity accommodation comprises an astigmatism accommodation.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising digital instructions to be implemented by one or more digital processors to automatically adjust perception of an input to be rendered via an array of digital display pixels and a corresponding array of light field shaping elements (LFSE) to at least partially accommodate a designated visual acuity accommodation defined by a designated variable optical vision parameter that varies across user pupil locations, by, for each given pixel, digitally: defining a corresponding location on an adjusted image surface as a function of a direction of a given light field emanated by said given pixel given a corresponding LFSE and said designated variable optical vision parameter for a given pupil location intersected by said given light field; and associating an adjusted image pixel value with said given pixel given said corresponding location on said adjusted image surface for perceptively rendering a perceptively adjusted version of the input image that at least partially accommodates said designated visual acuity accommodation.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions to digitally project a given ray trace between said given pixel and said given pupil location; and identify said designated variable optical vision parameter for said given pupil location.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein, for at least some said given pixel, said adjusted image surface comprises a respective virtual image plane virtually positioned relative to the digital display pixels at a designated distance from said user pupil and corresponding with a respective said designated optical vision parameter identified for said given pupil location, and wherein the instructions further cause the one or more digital processors to digitally map the input on said respective virtual image plane and associating said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein a mapping area of at least some said respective virtual image plane is defined by a non-rectangular convex quadrilateral area.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein, for at least some said given pixel, said adjusted image surface comprises a user retinal plane; and wherein said defining said adjusted image location comprises digitally redirecting a given ray trace between said given pixel and said given pupil location at said given pupil location according to said designated variable optical vision parameter so to intersect said retinal plane at said adjusted image location, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprises instructions for digitally mapping the input image on said user retinal plane and associating said adjusted image pixel value based on said mapping.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein said redirecting comprises: defining a corresponding ray trace from said given LFSE estimated to propagate substantially undeviated to a corresponding eye focal point on a user eye focal plane; and redirecting said given ray trace toward said eye focal point so to intersect said user retinal plane at said adjusted image location.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein said redirecting comprises: deriving from said given pupil location and said designated optical vision parameter defined therefor, an offset pupil location through which a corresponding ray trace is estimated to propagate substantially undeviated to a corresponding eye focal point on a user eye focal plane, wherein said offset pupil location is digitally calculated, at least in part, as a function of a cylindrical optical focusing parameter and a cylindrical optical axis parameter; and redirecting said given ray trace toward said eye focal point so to intersect said user retinal plane at said adjusted image location.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising digital instructions to adjust said designated variable optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation until an optimal visual acuity accommodation is identified.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising digital instructions to adjust said designated variable optical vision parameter to accommodate for a distinct visual acuity accommodation to provide a preview of a relative visual impact of said distinct visual acuity accommodation.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein said designated visual acuity accommodation comprises an astigmatism accommodation.
</claims>
</document>
