<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K29/00,A61B5/00,A61B5/11,F21S6/00,F24F11/39,G01H17/00,G01N33/00,G01P13/00,G01S13/89,G08B21/02,G08B21/18,H05B47/105,H05B47/11,H05B47/115,H05B47/16,H05B47/19
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RACEPOINT ENERGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LARK, JR., WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66247718
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT LIGHTING CONTROL SYSTEM FLOOR PUCK APPARATUSES, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides intelligent lighting control systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A lighting control system, the lighting control system comprising: a base housing; a base electrical plug extending from the base housing and configured for plugging into a wall electrical outlet; a base electrical outlet in the base housing configured for electrically coupling the lighting control system with a corded luminaire via a luminaire electrical plug; at least one sensor system coupled to the base housing; and a controller communicably coupled to the at least one sensor, the controller configured to control a flow of electricity received through the base electrical plug from the electrical wall outlet and flowing, at least in part, to the corded luminaire via the luminaire electrical plug, the controller configured to control the flow of electricity to the corded luminaire based on an input detected by the at least one sensor, whereby a light emitting element in the free standing corded luminaire can be turned on, turned off, dimmed, or have the color temperature changed.
2. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the base housing is configured for positioning on a floor surface.
3. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor positioned on a bottom surface of the base housing.
4. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one sensor positioned on a top surface of the base housing.
5. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the corded luminaire comprises a free standing corded luminaire.
6. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises at least one of a vibration sensor, a sonar sensor, a low-pass microphone, a RF sensor, a radar, a CO2 sensor, a humidity sensor, and a thermometer.
7. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the vibration sensor is facing a downward direction.
8. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the electrical outlet is positioned in a peripheral portion of the housing.
9. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine a floor type from a detection of the at least one sensor.
10. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the base housing is disk shaped.
11. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to auto-tune a strength of the at least one sensor dependent upon a proximity of the lighting control system to one or more pieces of surrounding furniture and walls detected via an ultrasonic and/or time-of-flight sensor.
12. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to auto-tune a strength of a wireless antenna dependent upon proximity to surrounding occluding furniture and walls via use of ultrasonic and/or time-of-flight sensors.
13. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to map out a home's floor plan when multiple lighting control systems are used in unison (1) for a call and response to determine relative distances and/or angles between them, (2) to determine relative distances by RSSI measurements between lighting control modules, (3) as radar sensors (4) as ultra-sonic speakers and microphones to triangulate distances from one or more walls and each other.
14. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to analyze temperature differentials, thermal deficiencies, and environment profile throughout a home with the use of D-thermometers and humidity sensors within a plurality of lighting control systems positioned throughout the home.
15. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to monitor a sleep pattern via a motion sensor and/or microphone.
16. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to analyze changes in occupancy via changes in CO2 readings obtained by the at least one sensor.
17. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to monitor air quality by measuring particulates and CO levels and at least one of communicate one or more countermeasures wirelessly to HVAC system, notify a user [to change an air filter], or send a notification to a mobile electronic device and activate an alarm system.
18. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to communicate to other lighting control systems via low-frequency audio through one or more floors and walls in a home.
19. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to detect a bulb type of a bulb connected to the corded luminaire via at least one of a current sensor and voltage sensor used to analyze a power line.
20. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to turn on the corded luminaire to provide a nightlight in response to sensing vibration.
21. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to turn on the corded luminaire to provide a nightlight in response to sensing vibration and detecting that a room is dark.
22. The lighting control system according to claim 20 or 21, wherein the controller is configured to adjust an intensity of the nightlight in response to changes in the strength of the sensed vibrations.
23. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to analyze vibration sensed by the at least one sensor concurrently with activating the corded luminaire as an alarm to wake up.
24. The lighting control system according to claim 23, wherein the controller is configured to only deactivate the alarm once the at least one sensor senses that an occupant has stood up and/or begun walking via the at least one sensor and/or a floor motion sensor.
25. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to monitor pet motion and track behavior throughout a day via various sensors in 360-degrees of direction.
26. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises one or more of: a passive infrared sensor, an ultra-sonic sensor, a time-of-flight sensor, a motion/seismic sensor, and a microphone.
27. The lighting control system according to claim 1, where the lighting control system is implemented to monitor child movement and deter via an alarm or an alert when a detected child is determined to be in close proximity to an pre-identified dangerous area.
28. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to guide pets toward or away from areas of the home via utilization of high-frequency audio.
29. The lighting control system according to claim 28, wherein the high frequency audio is implemented in harmony (sound varies in harmony from loudest in spaces to deter to quiet/off in destination) via a plurality of lighting control systems.
30. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to utilize current and voltage sensing to determine what is plugged into the lighting control system and to regulate power based on the determination to prevent damage.
31. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the housing includes a movable outlet cover.
32. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the base housing comprises a well including a first electrical connector positioned in the well and a light switch module configured for nesting, at least in part, in the well, the light switch module comprising: a module housing, a graphical user interface coupled to the module housing, a power storage system housed in the module housing, and a second electrical connector electrically connected to the power storage system, the second electrical connector configured for engagement with and electrical coupling to the first electrical connector of the base module when nested in the well of the base housing.
33. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is positioned in the module housing nested in the well of the base housing.
34. The lighting control system according to claim 1, wherein the base housing comprises a well comprising a high power circuit electrical connector for sinking and sourcing high in-line power from and to the wall electrical outlet, the high power circuit electrical connector configured to engage a low power circuit electrical connector of a light switch module configured to nest, at least in part, in the well, the light switch module comprising an actuator circuit board system comprising a low power circuit electrically connected to a low power circuit electrical connector, the low power circuit comprising at least one processor.
35. The lighting control system according to claim 34, wherein the light switch module further comprises at least one sensor.
36. A method of operating a lighting control system according to any of the preceding claims.
</claims>
</document>
