<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/14,G06Q20/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIFI
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRAIN, TYLER
FALCAO, JOAO
GU, STEVE
ZHENG, YING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ANONYMOUS CHECKOUT IN A STORE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for anonymous checkout in a store. One of the methods includes receiving, by a computer system of the store, information associated with a payment account of a person; sending, by the computer system to a server associated with a payment system, the received information associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from the server associated with the payment system, a token associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from a plurality of sensors, data associated with the person; extracting, by the computer system based on the received data associated with the person, a plurality of features of the person; and storing, by the computer system, the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for anonymous checkout in a store, comprising receiving, by a computer system of the store, information associated with a payment account of a person; sending, by the computer system to a server associated with a payment system, the received information associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from the server associated with the payment system, a token associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from a plurality of sensors, data associated with the person; extracting, by the computer system based on the received data associated with the person, a plurality of features of the person; and storing, by the computer system, the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the computer system based on the received data associated with the person, one or more interactions of the person with one or more product items; generating, by the computer system, a bill based on the identified one or more interactions, wherein the bill comprises a payment amount; and sending, by the computer system to the server associated with the payment system, a payment request comprising the payment amount and the token associated with the payment account of the person.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the identifying one or more interactions of the person with one or more product items comprises: determining, based on the data received from one or more of the sensors, that the person is located in proximity to one of the one or more product items; detecting one or more movements of a hand of the person with respect to the product item; and identifying one of the interactions based on the one or more detected movements.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the generating a bill based on the identified one or more interactions comprises: creating, by the computer system, a log associated with the person; adding, by the computer system, a plurality of entries to the log, wherein one or more of the entries correspond to the one or more interactions of the person with the one or more product items; and generating the bill based on the log.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising, subsequent to the sending the payment amount and the token associated with the payment account of the person: deleting the stored token associated with the payment account of the person and the extracted features of the person.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the token associated with the payment account of the person comprises: ciphertext based on encryption of at least part of the received information associated with the payment account of the person.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the storing the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person comprises: generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features; and storing the received token in correspondence with the generated representation.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features comprises: encrypting information associated with the one or more of the extracted features.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting a plurality of features of the person comprises: obtaining, by the computer system based on the data received from the sensors, a plurality of values associated with a feature of the person, wherein each of the values is determined based on the data received from one of the sensors; and determining, by the computer system, a final value corresponding to the feature of the person based on a weighted average of the plurality of values.
10. A system for anonymous checkout in a store comprising a computer system and a plurality of sensors, the computer system comprising one or more processors and one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors to cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the computer system, information associated with a payment account of a person; sending, by the computer system to a server associated with a payment system, the received information associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from the server associated with the payment system, a token associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, by the computer system from the sensors, data associated with the person; extracting, by the computer system based on the received data associated with the person, a plurality of features of the person; and storing, by the computer system, the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying, by the computer system based on the received data associated with the person, one or more interactions of the person with one or more product items; generating, by the computer system, a bill based on the identified one or more interactions, wherein the bill comprises a payment amount; and sending, by the computer system to the server associated with the payment system, a payment request comprising the payment amount and the token associated with the payment account of the person.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the generating a bill based on the identified one or more interactions comprises: creating, by the computer system, a log associated with the person; adding, by the computer system, a plurality of entries to the log, wherein one or more of the entries correspond to the one or more interactions of the person with the one or more product items; and generating the bill based on the log.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the token associated with the payment account of the person comprises: ciphertext based on encryption of at least part of the received information associated with the payment account of the person.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the storing the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person comprises: generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features; and storing the received token in correspondence with the generated representation.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features comprises: encrypting information associated with the one or more of the extracted features.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for anonymous checkout in a store, configured with instructions executable by one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving information associated with a payment account of a person; sending, to a server associated with a payment system, the received information associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, from the server associated with the payment system, a token associated with the payment account of the person; receiving, from a plurality of sensors, data associated with the person; extracting, based on the received data associated with the person, a plurality of features of the person; and storing the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying, based on the received data associated with the person, one or more interactions of the person with one or more product items; generating a bill based on the identified one or more interactions, wherein the bill comprises a payment amount; and sending, to the server associated with the payment system, a payment request comprising the payment amount and the token associated with the payment account of the person.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the token associated with the payment account of the person comprises: ciphertext based on encryption of at least part of the received information associated with the payment account of the person.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the storing the received token in correspondence with information associated with the extracted features of the person comprises: generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features; and storing the received token in correspondence with the generated representation.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the generating a representation of one or more of the extracted features comprises: encrypting information associated with the one or more of the extracted features.
</claims>
</document>
