<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/683,G06F17/18,G06F3/16,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPOTIFY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PACHET FRANCOIS
ROY, PIERRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69742665
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE FOR EFFICIENT USE OF COMPUTING RESOURCES BASED ON USAGE ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
A computing device comprising a display screen, the computing device being configured to decompose a media recording into a plurality of media recording salient events, apply each of the media recording salient events to a reinforcement model, display on the display screen (i) a mapping of the plurality of media recording salient events and (ii) for at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events, at least one selectable next best action, the computing device further configured to replace at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events with at least one selectable next best action to create a derivative media recording including at least one replacement media recording action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising a display screen, the computing device being configured to decompose a media recording into a plurality of media recording salient events, apply each of the media recording salient events to a reinforcement model, display on the display screen (i) a mapping of the plurality of media recording salient events and (ii) for at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events, at least one selectable next best action, the computing device further configured to replace at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events with at least one selectable next best action to create a derivative media recording including at least one replacement media recording action.
2. The computing device according to claim 1 further configured to display on the display screen a plurality of phases of the media recording, each phase including at least one of the media recording salient events.
3. The computing device according to claim 1 further configured to determine, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action, and swap the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically.
4. The computing device of claim 3, wherein the playback action is at least one of a skip action, a stop action, a forward action, and a reverse action.
5. The computing device according to claim 1 further configured to determine, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action and swap the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically until the probability value is within a predetermined threshold.
6. The computing device according to claim 5, further comprising a media playback component, the computing device further configured to cause the media playback component to playback the derivative media recording a predetermined time prior to the media recording salient event and to playback the media recording salient event and the at least one selectable next best action sequentially starting from the predetermined time.
7. The computing device according to claim 5, further comprising a media playback component, the computing device further configured to provide a visual indication of the at least one replacement action, the at least one replacement action being selectable, wherein when the at least one replacement action is selected, the media playback component plays back the derivative media recording from a predetermined time prior to a start of the replacement action.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: decomposing a media recording into a plurality of media recording salient events; applying each of the media recording salient events to a reinforcement model; displaying on a display screen: (i) a mapping of the plurality of media recording salient events, and (ii) for at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events, at least one selectable next best action; and replacing at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events with at least one selectable next best action to create a derivative media recording including at least one replacement media recording action.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 8, further comprising: displaying on the display screen a plurality of phases of the media recording, each phase including at least one of the media recording salient events.
10. The computer-implemented method according to claim 8, further comprising: determining, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action; and swapping the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically.
11. The computer-implemented method according to claim 10, wherein the playback action is at least one of a skip action, a stop action, a forward action, and a reverse action.
12. The computer-implemented method according to claim 8, further comprising: determining, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action; and swapping the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically until the probability value is within a predetermined threshold.
13. The computer-implemented method according to claim 12, further comprising: causing a media playback component to playback the derivative media recording a predetermined time prior to the media recording salient event and to playback the media recording salient event and the at least one selectable next best action sequentially starting from the predetermined time.
14. The computer-implemented method according to claim 12, further comprising: causing a media playback component to provide a visual indication of the at least one replacement action, the at least one replacement action being selectable, wherein when the at least one replacement action is selected, the media playback component plays back the derivative media recording from a predetermined time prior to a start of the replacement action.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform: decomposing a media recording into a plurality of media recording salient events; applying each of the media recording salient events to a reinforcement model; displaying on a display screen: (i) a mapping of the plurality of media recording salient events, and (ii) for at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events, at least one selectable next best action; and replacing at least one of the plurality of media recording salient events with at least one selectable next best action to create a derivative media recording including at least one replacement media recording action.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform: displaying on the display screen a plurality of phases of the media recording, each phase including at least one of the media recording salient events.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform: determining, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action; and swapping the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform, wherein the playback action is at least one of a skip action, a stop action, a forward action, and a reverse action.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform: determining, for each of the plurality of media recording salient events, a probability value indicating a probability that the media recording salient event is a cause for a playback action; and swapping the at least one selectable next best action for the media recording salient event automatically until the probability value is within a predetermined threshold.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform: causing a media playback component to playback the derivative media recording a predetermined time prior to the media recording salient event and to playback the media recording salient event and the at least one selectable next best action sequentially starting from the predetermined time.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further having stored thereon a sequence of instructions for causing the one or more processors to perform: causing a media playback component to provide a visual indication of the at least one replacement action, the at least one replacement action being selectable, wherein when the at least one replacement action is selected, the media playback component plays back the derivative media recording from a predetermined time prior to a start of the replacement action.
</claims>
</document>
