<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47L11/40,A47L9/00,A47L9/28,B01D46/00,B01D46/42,B01D46/44,B01D46/46,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, TAE HYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67478336
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AIR CLEANER
</title>

<abstract>
An air cleaner disposed in an indoor space is disclosed. The air cleaner according to an embodiment of the present invention includes a blowing device including a suction port and a discharging port, a fan motor configured to cause air flow, a purification unit installed in the blowing device to clean air, a flow conversion configured to change a flow direction of air discharged from the discharging port, a communication unit configured to communicate with a moving agent moving in the indoor space, and a processor configured to receive feature information collected by the moving agent and associated with a structure of the indoor space, obtain a type of the indoor space by using the feature information, and control an operation of at least one of the fan motor and the flow conversion device by using the type of the indoor space to adjust at least one of an operation mode, a wind direction, and a wind volume.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An air cleaner disposed in an indoor space, the air cleaner comprising: a blower including a suction port and a discharging port; a fan motor configured to cause air flow; a purifier installed in the blower to clean air; a flow converter configured to change a flow direction of air discharged from the discharging port; a communicator configured to communicate with a moving agent moving in the indoor space; and a processor configured to receive feature information collected by the moving agent and associated with a structure of the indoor space, obtain a type of the indoor space by using the feature information, and control an operation of at least one of the fan motor and the flow converter by using the type of the indoor space to adjust at least one of an operation mode, a wind direction, and a wind volume.
2. The air cleaner of claim 1, wherein the processor adjusts at least one of the operation mode, the wind direction, and the wind volume by using cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space among a plurality of cleaning information respectively corresponding to types of a plurality of indoor spaces.
3. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for more quickly enhancing air quality of a main cleaning zone of the indoor space than air quality of another zone of the indoor space, based on the structure of the indoor space.
4. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for enabling average air quality of the indoor space to quickly reach target air quality, based on the structure of the indoor space.
5. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for decreasing a difference between air quality of a cleaning-vulnerable zone of the indoor space and air quality of another zone of the indoor space, based on the structure of the indoor space.
6. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for more quickly enhancing air quality of a zone set by a user in the indoor space than air quality of another zone of the indoor space, based on the structure of the indoor space.
7. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for enabling air quality of the indoor space to be uniform, based on the structure of the indoor space.
8. The air cleaner of claim 1, wherein the processor receives situation information including at least one of zone-based air quality information and dust occurrence information collected by the moving agent and controls an operation of at least one of the fan motor and the flow converter by using the type of the indoor space and the situation information to adjust at least one of the operation mode, the wind direction, and the wind volume.
9. The air cleaner of claim 8, wherein the processor determines a specific zone on which intensive cleaning is to be performed, based on the situation information.
10. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein the specific zone is a zone where air quality is worst in the indoor space.
11. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein the specific zone is a zone which does not reach target air quality in the indoor space.
12. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein the specific zone is a zone where the dust occurrence information appears.
13. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein the processor obtains cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space among a plurality of cleaning information respectively corresponding to types of a plurality of indoor spaces, obtains zone cleaning information corresponding to the specific zone among a plurality of zone cleaning information included in the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space, and adjusts at least one of the operation mode, the wind volume, and the wind direction by using the zone cleaning information corresponding to the specific zone.
14. The air cleaner of claim 13, wherein the zone cleaning information corresponding to the specific zone is a setting value of the air cleaner for more quickly enhancing air quality of the specific zone of the indoor space than air quality of another zone, based on the structure of the indoor space.
15. The air cleaner of claim 8, wherein the processor obtains uniformity of air quality of the indoor space on the basis of the situation information, when the uniformity is lower than a predetermined value, the processor adjusts at least one of the operation mode, the wind volume, and the wind direction by using the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space, and the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space is a setting value of the air cleaner for enabling air quality of the indoor space to be uniform, based on the structure of the indoor space.
16. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein the processor stores information about the specific zone in a memory, and in a next operation of the air cleaner, the processor performs intensive cleaning on the specific zone on the basis of the stored information about the specific zone.
17. The air cleaner of claim 9, wherein, when an operation of the air cleaner starts, the processor transmits a situation information collection command to the moving agent.
18. The air cleaner of claim 1, wherein the moving agent is a robot vacuum cleaner.
19. The air cleaner of claim 2, wherein the processor obtains at least one of a position and a direction of the air cleaner in the indoor space on the basis of feature information and corrects the cleaning information corresponding to the type of the indoor space on the basis of at least one of the position and the direction of the air cleaner.
20. A moving agent moving in an indoor space, the moving agent comprising: a driving driver including at least one driving motor; a communicator configured to communicate with an air cleaner disposed in the indoor space; a sensor configured to obtain situation information including at least one of feature information associated with a structure of the indoor space, zone-based air quality information, and dust occurrence information; and a processor configured to obtain a type of indoor space by using the feature information, obtain cleaning information by using the type of the indoor space and the situation information, and transmit the cleaning information to the air cleaner.
</claims>
</document>
