<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04H60/07,H04H60/37,H04H60/48,H04H60/64
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NBCUNIVERSAL MEDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BECKETT, III, WILLIAM R.
BARSH, ANDREW JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69720137
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-time automated classification system
</title>

<abstract>
The current embodiments relate to a real-time automated classification system that uses machine learning system to recognize important moments in broadcast content based on log data and/or other data received from various classification systems. The real-time automated classification system may be trained to recognize correlations between the various log data to determine key moments in the broadcast content. The real-time automated logging system may determine and generate metadata that describe or give information about what is happening or appearing in the broadcast content. The real-time automated logging system may automatically generate control inputs, suggestions, recommendations, and/or edits relating to broadcast content based upon the metadata, during broadcasting of the broadcast content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A tangible, non-transitory machine readable medium comprising machine readable instructions for providing automated classification of broadcast content, when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive log data generated during generation of the broadcast content from one or more devices associated with generation of the broadcast content; characterize the log data, correlate the log data, or both to derive one or more features based upon the log data; derive metadata comprising data corresponding to the broadcast content based on the derived features; and perform automated control, automated suggestions, automated reporting, or a combination thereof, based on the metadata, during broadcasting of the broadcast content.
2. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the log data comprise time code information, text information, audio log, real-time graphic system log, tally log, switcher log, newsroom system log, MOS gateway log, replay log, character generator log, video playout log, or a combination thereof.
3. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises an indication of one or more highlight moments of the broadcast content.
4. The machine readable medium of claim 3, wherein the machine readable instructions to perform automated suggestions comprise instructions to: generate a clip corresponding to the highlight moment of the broadcast content.
5. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the machine readable instructions to perform automated suggestions comprise instructions to: generate a suggestion for a graphical presentation corresponding to a current portion of the broadcast content; and incorporate the graphical presentation in the broadcast content.
6. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the machine readable instructions to perform automated reporting comprise instructions to: determine a target based upon the metadata; search one or more information sources for information relating to the target; generate a report based on results of the search; and provide the report to authorized personnel, incorporate data related to the report in the broadcast content, or both.
7. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the machine readable instructions to perform automated control comprise instructions to adjust processing of verbiage audio signals with respect to background audio signals based upon the metadata.
8. The machine readable medium of claim 1, wherein the machine readable instructions to perform automated suggestions comprise instructions to: isolate, based upon the log data, a verbiage channel of multiple channels of audio of the broadcast content; and generate textual data representative of verbiage present on the isolated verbiage channel, via automated speech recognition, automated translation, or both.
9. A machine-implemented method for providing real-time automated logging of broadcast content, comprising: receiving log data generated during generation of the broadcast content from one or more devices associated with generation of the broadcast content; characterizing the log data, correlating the log data, or both to derive one or more features based upon the log data; deriving metadata comprising data indicative of what is appearing on the broadcast content; and performing automated control, automated suggestions, automated reporting, or a combination thereof, based on the metadata, during broadcasting of the broadcast content.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the log data comprise time code information, text information, audio log, real-time graphic system log, tally log, switcher log, newsroom system log, MOS gateway log, replay log, character generator log, video playout log, or a combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein performing automated suggestions comprises: generating a suggestion for a graphical presentation corresponding to a current portion of the broadcast content; and incorporating the graphical presentation in the broadcast content.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein performing automated suggestions comprises: generating a clip corresponding to a highlight moment of the broadcast content; and incorporating the clip in the broadcast content or in digital distribution products.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein performing automated reporting comprises: determining a target based upon the metadata; searching one or more information sources for information relating to the target; generating a report based on results of the search; and providing the report to authorized personnel, incorporating data related to the report in the broadcast content, or both.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein performing automated control comprises adjusting processing of verbiage audio signals with respect to background audio signals based upon the metadata.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein performing automated suggestions comprises: isolating, based upon the log data, a verbiage channel of multiple channels of audio of the broadcast content; and generating textual data representative of verbiage present on the isolated verbiage channel, via automated speech recognition, automated translation, or both.
16. A real-time automated classification system, comprising: a machine learning module, configured to: receive log data generated during generation of broadcast content from one or more devices associated with generation of the broadcast content; characterize the log data, correlate the log data, or both to derive one or more features based upon the log data; derive metadata comprising data indicative of what is appearing on the broadcast content; and predict automated control, automated suggestions, automated reporting, or a combination thereof, based on the metadata, during broadcasting of the broadcast content.
17. The real-time automated classification system of claim 16, wherein the log data comprise time code information, text information, audio log, real-time graphic system log, tally log, switcher log, newsroom system log, gateway machine settings, replay log, character generator log, video playout log, or a combination thereof.
18. The real-time automated classification system of claim 16, wherein the machine learning module is configured to be trained based on records of previous live broadcast content.
19. The real-time automated classification system of claim 16, comprising a control system configured to incorporate the predicted automated suggestions and/or the predicted automated reporting, in the broadcast content.
20. The real-time automated classification system of claim 19, wherein the control system is configured to receive an approval of the predicted automated suggestions and/or the predicted automated reporting, and in response to receiving the approval, incorporate the predicted automated suggestions and/or the predicted automated reporting in the broadcast content.
</claims>
</document>
