<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/707
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEORA, SUVIL SINGH
KAPADIA, SHYAM
MEHTA, NAOSHAD
Sattiraju, Srinivas Siva Kanth
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189518
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EVALUATING THE IMPACT OF TRANSCEIVER TEMPERATURE ON INTERFACE UTILIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device obtains temperature and utilization measurements for a set of network interface transceivers in a network. The device computes, for each of the transceivers, a correlation coefficient between its temperature and utilization measurements. The device applies a k-nearest neighbor classifier to the correlation coefficients, to predict a correlation coefficient. The device uses the predicted correlation coefficient to determine an impact of temperature on utilization of a particular network interface transceiver. The device initiates a mitigation action, when the determined impact of temperature on the utilization of the particular network interface transceiver exceeds a predefined threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a device, temperature and utilization measurements for a set of network interface transceivers in a network; computing, by the device and for each of the network interface transceivers, a correlation coefficient between its temperature and utilization measurements; applying, by the device, a k-nearest neighbor classifier to the correlation coefficients, to predict a correlation coefficient that is an average of the correlation coefficients of k-number of most similar network interface transceivers in the set of network interface transceivers; using, by the device, the predicted correlation coefficient to determine an impact of temperature on utilization of a particular network interface transceiver; and initiating, by the device, a mitigation action, when the determined impact of temperature on the utilization of the particular network interface transceiver exceeds a predefined threshold.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, an alert regarding the determined impact to a user interface for review.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, data regarding the determined impact to a network controller in the network, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, data regarding the determined impact to a router or switch, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
5. The method as in claim 3, wherein the router or switch uses Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP) signaling to reprogram adjacencies or next-hop entries in the network, to reduce an amount of traffic hashed to next-hops reachable via the particular interface transceiver.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein the temperature of the particular interface transceiver is within a normal operating temperature range.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the interface transceivers comprise optical transceivers.
8. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with one or more networks; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: obtain temperature and utilization measurements for a set of network interface transceivers in a network; compute, for each of the network interface transceivers, a correlation coefficient between its temperature and utilization measurements; apply a k-nearest neighbor classifier to the correlation coefficients, to predict a correlation coefficient that is an average of the correlation coefficients of k-number of most similar network interface transceivers in the set of network interface transceivers; use the predicted correlation coefficient to determine an impact of temperature on utilization of a particular network interface transceiver; and initiate a mitigation action, when the determined impact of temperature on the utilization of the particular network interface transceiver exceeds a predefined threshold.
9. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the apparatus initiates the mitigation action by: sending an alert regarding the determined impact to a user interface for review.
10. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the apparatus initiates the mitigation action by: sending data regarding the determined impact to a network controller in the network, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
11. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the apparatus initiates the mitigation action by: sending data regarding the determined impact to a router or switch, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the router or switch uses Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP) signaling to reprogram adjacencies or next-hop entries in the network, to reduce an amount of traffic hashed to next-hops reachable via the particular interface transceiver.
13. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the temperature of the particular interface transceiver is within a normal operating temperature range.
14. The apparatus as in claim 8, wherein the interface transceivers comprise optical transceivers.
15. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device to execute a process comprising: obtaining, by the device, temperature and utilization measurements for a set of network interface transceivers in a network; computing, by the device and for each of the network interface transceivers, a correlation coefficient between its temperature and utilization measurements; applying, by the device, a k-nearest neighbor classifier to the correlation coefficients, to predict a correlation coefficient that is an average of the correlation coefficients of k-number of most similar network interface transceivers in the set of network interface transceivers; using, by the device, the predicted correlation coefficient to determine an impact of temperature on utilization of a particular network interface transceiver; and initiating, by the device, a mitigation action, when the determined impact of temperature on the utilization of the particular network interface transceiver exceeds a predefined threshold.
16. The computer-readable medium as in claim 15, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, an alert regarding the determined impact to a user interface for review.
17. The computer-readable medium as in claim 15, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, data regarding the determined impact to a network controller in the network, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 15, wherein initiating the mitigation action comprises: sending, by the device, data regarding the determined impact to a router or switch, to cause traffic in the network to be moved away from the particular interface transceiver.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 18, wherein the router or switch uses Equal Cost Multipath (ECMP) signaling to reprogram adjacencies or next-hop entries in the network, to reduce an amount of traffic hashed to next-hops reachable via the particular interface transceiver.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 15, wherein the temperature of the particular interface transceiver is within a normal operating temperature range.
</claims>
</document>
