<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E05B47/00,G06K9/00,G07C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GATE LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
EHYAIE, DANIAL
HO, HARVEY
SAEEDI, EHSAN
ARIANA, Amin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65902590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCESS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems, apparatus, and methods for remotely managing access to a space and performing trust verification to authorize or deny people access to the space. An access management platform comprising an electronic lock installed on a door can enable a user to establish a virtual presence at the door. For example, a delivery person can activate a doorbell button or icon of the lock and the lock can send a message to a smartphone of a user of the platform. The user can remotely use the smartphone to initiate a video stream using a camera of the platform and a two way audio stream. The user can use the smartphone to unlock the door and ask the delivery person to deliver the package inside. The platform can also determine and control the status of the space and communicate with other devices regarding the status of the space.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A secure access system comprising: a door management platform comprising: processor, locking mechanism, a motor coupled to the processor and the locking mechanism, an input element, and a camera; a first server; a second server, wherein the first server is configured to expect a delivery event, wherein the first server is configured to communicate with the second server that the delivery event will occur and a delivery time window associated with the delivery event, wherein the second server is configured to send a one-time access code to first server after approval by an administrator of the door management platform, wherein the one-time access code is valid during the delivery time window, and wherein the second server is configured to send the delivery access code and the delivery time window to the door management platform.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the door management platform is configured to unlock the locking mechanism when the access code is entered into the input element during the delivery time window.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the second server is configured to send facial recognition data associated with the one-time access code to the first server.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the door management platform comprises a processor, a locking mechanism, a motor coupled to the processor and the locking mechanism, and a camera.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the door management platform further comprises: memory coupled to the processor a wireless communication interface coupled to the processor a microphone coupled to the processor a speaker coupled to the processor
6. A secure access method comprising: informing a first server a delivery event expected to occur; communicating by the first server to a second server that the delivery event will occur and a delivery time window associated with the delivery event; communicating by the second server to the first server a one-time access code after approval by an administrator of the door management platform, wherein the one-time access code is valid during the delivery time window; and communicating, by the second server to a door management platform, the one-time access code and delivery time window.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising unlocking the locking mechanism by the door management platform after receiving entry of the access code into an input element on the door management platform during the delivery time window.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the door management platform comprises a processor, a locking mechanism, a motor coupled to the processor and the locking mechanism, and a camera.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising creating by the second server the one-time access code.
10. A door management platform, for remotely managing access to an area, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor; a wireless communication interface coupled to the processor; a microphone coupled to the processor; a speaker coupled to the processor; a camera coupled to the processor; a locking mechanism; and a motor coupled to the processor and to the locking mechanism, wherein the door management platform is configured to send, via the wireless communication interface, a real-time stream of video acquired by the camera to a computing device of an administrator of the door management platform to enable the administrator to see a person requesting access to an area protected by the door management platform, wherein the door management platform is configured to provide, via the wireless communication interface, a two-way real-time audio connection between the door management platform and the computing device of the administrator to enable the administrator and the person requesting access to be able to verbally communicate, the two-way real-time audio connection being facilitated by the microphone and the speaker, and wherein the door management platform is configured to lock or unlock the door management platform in response to a message received from the computing device of the administrator after the administrator verifies, based on the real-time video stream or the real-time audio connection, an identify of the person requesting access, the message indicating to lock or unlock the door management platform.
11. The door management platform of claim 10, further comprising: a doorbell button coupled to the processor, wherein the door management platform is configured to send a notification of activation of the doorbell button to the computing device of the administrator in response to the doorbell button being activated by being pressed by the person requesting access, and wherein configuration of the door management platform to provide the real-time video stream and the real-time audio connection includes being configured to provide the real-time video stream and the real-time audio connection in response to said notification of activation.
12. The door management platform of claim 10, wherein the door management platform is configured to communicate with a mobile device of the person requesting access.
13. The door management platform of claim 12, wherein the door management platform is configured to receive, from the computing device of the administrator, an electronic signature that is to be captured by the computing device to acknowledge delivery of an item, and wherein the door management platform is configured to send the electronic signature to the mobile device of the person requesting access.
14. The door management platform of claim 12, wherein the door management platform is configured to receive, via the mobile device, personal data of the person requesting access, and to send the personal data to the computing device of the administrator.
15. The door management platform of claim 14, wherein the personal data includes a photo, of the person requesting access, that the administrator can use to identify the person requesting access, the photo being an electronic copy of a photo that is stored at a server of an employer of the person requesting access.
16. The door management platform of claim 12, wherein the door management platform is configured to communicate with the mobile device of the person requesting access via any of a short distance wireless communication standard, a local area wireless network, or a cellular network.
</claims>
</document>
