<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06F16/29,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU JIANGTAO
LUO, QI
MIAO, JINGHAO
WANG, YU
XU, JIAXUAN
ZHOU, JINYUN
JIANG, SHU
HE, RUNXIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72829503
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PARKING MANAGEMENT ARCHITECTURE FOR PARKING AUTONOMOUS DRIVING VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, in response to a request to park an ADV into a parking lot, a remote server is accessed over a network (e.g., a VX2 link) to obtain a list of parking spaces that appear to be available in the parking lot. Based on the list of available parking spaces and the map associated with the parking lot, a route is generated to navigate through at least the available parking spaces. The ADV is driven according to the route to locate at least one of the available parking spaces and to park the ADV into the located available parking space. The centralized server is configured to periodically receive signals from a number of parking lots indicating which of the parking spaces of the parking lots are apparently available.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle, the method comprising: in response to a request to park an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) in a parking lot, accessing a remote server over a vehicle-to-everything (V2X) link to obtain a list of one or more parking spaces that appear to be available in the parking lot; generating a route to navigate through the parking spaces of the list based on a parking lot map associated with the parking lot; driving the ADV according to the route to locate one of the parking spaces that is available at a point in time; and in response to locating an available parking space, planning a parking path to park the ADV into the available parking space.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the remote server periodically receives signals from a plurality of sensors disposed within the parking lot, the signals indicating which parking space is available.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a route to navigating through the parking spaces comprises generating a shortest route that goes through the parking spaces that appear to be available.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to locating a first parking space indicated in the list, determining whether the located parking space is indeed available based on sensor data obtained from one or more sensors mounted on the ADV, wherein the parking path is planned to park the ADV into the first parking space if the first parking space is indeed available based on the sensor data.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising, in response to determining that the first parking space is unavailable based on the sensor data, continuing driving the ADV along the route to locate a next parking space indicated in the list.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein continuing driving the ADV along the route is performed until an available parking space is located or all parking spaces in the list have been processed.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a LIDAR device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein if the list does not contain any parking space apparently available from the remote server, the method further comprises: generating a second route to navigate through at least a portion of parking spaces of the parking lot based on the parking lot map; driving the ADV according to the second route; and identifying an available parking space based on sensor data obtained from one or more sensors of the ADV.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: in response to a request to park an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) in a parking lot, accessing a remote server over a vehicle-to-everything (V2X) link to obtain a list of one or more parking spaces that appear to be available in the parking lot; generating a route to navigate through the parking spaces of the list based on a parking lot map associated with the parking lot; driving the ADV according to the route to locate one of the parking spaces that is available at a point in time; and in response to locating an available parking space, planning a parking path to park the ADV into the available parking space.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the remote server periodically receives signals from a plurality of sensors disposed within the parking lot, the signals indicating which parking space is available.
11. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein generating a route to navigating through the parking spaces comprises generating a shortest route that goes through the parking spaces that appear to be available.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to locating a first parking space indicated in the list, determining whether the located parking space is indeed available based on sensor data obtained from one or more sensors mounted on the ADV, wherein the parking path is planned to park the ADV into the first parking space if the first parking space is indeed available based on the sensor data.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to determining that the first parking space is unavailable based on the sensor data, continuing driving the ADV along the route to locate a next parking space indicated in the list.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein continuing driving the ADV along the route is performed until an available parking space is located or all parking spaces in the list have been processed.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a LIDAR device.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein if the list does not contain any parking space apparently available from the remote server, the method further comprises: generating a second route to navigate through at least a portion of parking spaces of the parking lot based on the parking lot map; driving the ADV according to the second route; and identifying an available parking space based on sensor data obtained from one or more sensors of the ADV.
17. A data processing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations including in response to a request to park an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV) in a parking lot, accessing a remote server over a vehicle-to-everything (V2X) link to obtain a list of one or more parking spaces that appear to be available in the parking lot, generating a route to navigate through the parking spaces of the list based on a parking lot map associated with the parking lot, driving the ADV according to the route to locate one of the parking spaces that is available at a point in time, and in response to locating an available parking space, planning a parking path to park the ADV into the available parking space.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the remote server periodically receives signals from a plurality of sensors disposed within the parking lot, the signals indicating which parking space is available.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein generating a route to navigating through the parking spaces comprises generating a shortest route that goes through the parking spaces that appear to be available.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to locating a first parking space indicated in the list, determining whether the located parking space is indeed available based on sensor data obtained from one or more sensors mounted on the ADV, wherein the parking path is planned to park the ADV into the first parking space if the first parking space is indeed available based on the sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
