<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/3827,H04B17/10,H04W52/28,H04W52/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEYED, SHURHABEEL ZAMIR
SHEE, KOON KEONG
ALY, Aly H.M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62559376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING PROXIMITY OF TRANSMITTER ANTENNAS OF PORTABLE DEVICES TO A HUMAN BODY FOR LIMITING TRANSMITTER OUTPUT POWER TO MEET SPECIFIC ABSORPTION RATE (SAR) REQUIREMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for adjusting transmitter output power (PTX) comprises sensing, by a proximity sensor communicatively coupled to a transmitting device, whether an object is proximate to the transmitting device. The method further comprises analyzing an image from a camera to determine whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body, when the proximity sensor senses the object proximate to the transmitting device. Further, the method comprises adjusting the PTX of an antenna operatively coupled to the transmitting device to be less than or equal to a SAR threshold output power (PSARMAX), when it is determined that the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body or when it cannot be determined whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining whether a transmitting device or a portion thereof is proximate to a portion of a human body at least by: determining whether the transmitting device or a portion thereof is within a field of view of an image sensing system that is communicably coupled to the transmitting device; and analyzing data captured by the image sensing system to determine whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is proximate to the portion of the human body based in part or in whole upon results of determining whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is within the field of view of the image sensing system; and adjusting transmitting output power of an antenna operatively coupled to the transmitting device to be less than or equal to a threshold output power based in part or in whole upon results of determining whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is proximate to the portion of the human body.
2. A method, comprising: determining whether transmitter output power of an antenna operatively coupled to the transmitting device is greater than a threshold output power; obtaining image data from an image sensing system that is communicably coupled to the transmitting device; determining whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body at least by: determining whether the transmitting device or a portion thereof is within a field of view of the image sensing system; and analyzing data captured by the image sensing system to determine whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is proximate to the portion of the human body based in part or in whole upon results of determining whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is within the field of view of the image sensing system; and adjusting the transmitter output power to be less than or equal to the threshold output power based at least in part upon results of determining whether the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining whether a human body proximity flag has been set, when it is determined that the transmitter output power of the antenna is not greater than the threshold output power.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising delaying performance of the method by a predetermined amount of time, when it is determined that the human body proximity flag has been set.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising not adjusting the transmitter output power of the antenna, when it is determined that the human body proximity flag has not been set.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising clearing a human body proximity flag after of the image data has been obtained.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining whether the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body is confirmed.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising setting a human body proximity flag, when it cannot be confirmed that that the transmitting device is not within the FOV of the camera.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising not adjusting the transmitter output power of the antenna, when it is determined that the transmitting device is not proximate to the portion of the human body.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising setting a human body proximity flag, when it is determined that the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body or when it cannot be determined whether the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body.
11. A system, comprising: a transmitting device; an antenna operatively coupled to the transmitting device; an image sensing system communicably coupled to the transmitting device to capture image data; and a processor configured at least to: determine whether transmitter output power of the antenna is greater than a threshold output power, determine whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body at least by: determining whether the transmitting device or a portion thereof is within a field of view of the image sensing system; and analyzing data captured by the image sensing system to determine whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is proximate to the portion of the human body based in part or in whole upon results of determining whether the transmitting device or the portion thereof is within the field of view of the image sensing system; and adjust the transmitter output power to be less than or equal to the threshold output power based at least in part upon results of determining whether the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor does not adjust the transmitter output power of the antenna when it is confirmed that the transmitting device is not proximate to the portion of the human body.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor determines whether a human body proximity flag has been set when the processor determines that the transmitter output power of the antenna is not greater than the threshold output power.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein performance of the processor is delayed by a predetermined amount of time when the processor determines that the human body proximity flag has been set.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor does not adjust the transmitter output power of the antenna when the processor determines that the human body proximity flag has not been set.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor clears a human body proximity flag after the image data has been captured.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor determines whether it can be confirmed that the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor adjusts the transmitter output power of the antenna to be less than or equal to threshold output power when the processor determines that it cannot be confirmed that the transmitting device is not proximate to the portion of the human body.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor does not adjust the transmitter output power of the antenna when the processor determines that the transmitting device is not proximate to the portion of the human body.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor sets a human body proximity flag when the processor determines that the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body, or when the processor cannot confirm whether the transmitting device is not proximate to the portion of the human body.
</claims>
</document>
