<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/16,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G08G1/0962,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOBILEYE VISION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEIN, GIDEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57680490
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING AND RESPONDING TO CUT IN VEHICLES AND ALTRUISTIC RESPONSES
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle navigation system may comprise a memory including instructions and circuitry configured by the instructions to identify a target vehicle in an environment of a vehicle that includes the vehicle navigation system. The circuitry may receive image data of the target vehicle from at least one image capture device of the vehicle; identify, based on analysis of the image data, one or more situational characteristics of the target vehicle, the situational characteristics of the target including an indication that the target vehicle has an activated blinker; and change a navigational state of the vehicle to allow an action of the target vehicle. The vehicle may be configured to cause the change in the navigational state based on a determination that the one or more situational characteristics, including the activated blinker, indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from the change in the navigational state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A vehicle navigation system comprising: a memory including instructions; and circuitry that, when in operation, is configured by the instructions to: identify a target vehicle in an environment of a vehicle that includes the vehicle navigation system; receive image data of the target vehicle from at least one image capture device of the vehicle; identify, based on analysis of the image data, one or more situational characteristics of the target vehicle, the situational characteristics of the target including an indication that the target vehicle has an activated blinker; and change a navigational state of the vehicle to allow an action of the target vehicle, the vehicle configured to cause the change in the navigational state based on a determination that the one or more situational characteristics, including the activated blinker, indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from the change in the navigational state.
22. The vehicle navigation system of claim 21, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from a course change into a path of the vehicle.
23. The vehicle navigation system of claim 22, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle has moved laterally towards the path of the vehicle.
24. The vehicle navigation system of claim 21, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle is traveling in a lane adjacent to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
25. The vehicle navigation system of claim 21, wherein the action is a cut-in to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
26. The vehicle navigation system of claim 25, wherein the action is a cut-in to the lane in which the vehicle is traveling occurs at an interchange.
27. The vehicle navigation system of claim 21, wherein, to change the navigational state of the vehicle, the circuitry is configured to alter a speed of the vehicle.
28. The vehicle navigation system of claim 21, wherein, to identify the target vehicle in the environment of the vehicle, the circuitry is configured to use radar of the vehicle.
29. A vehicle comprising: at least one image capture device; and a vehicle navigation system configured to: identify a target vehicle in an environment of the vehicle; receive image data of the target vehicle from the at least one image capture device; identify, based on analysis of the image data, one or more situational characteristics of the target vehicle, the situational characteristics of the target including an indication that the target vehicle has an activated blinker; and change a navigational state of the vehicle to allow an action of the target vehicle, the vehicle configured to cause the change in the navigational state based on a determination that the one or more situational characteristics, including the activated blinker, indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from the change in the navigational state.
30. The vehicle of claim 29, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from a course change into a path of the vehicle.
31. The vehicle of claim 30, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle has moved laterally towards the path of the vehicle.
32. The vehicle navigation system of claim 29, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle is traveling in a lane adjacent to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
33. The vehicle of claim 29, wherein the action is a cut-in to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
34. The vehicle of claim 33, wherein the action is a cut-in to the lane in which the vehicle is traveling occurs at an interchange.
35. The vehicle of claim 29, wherein, to change the navigational state of the vehicle, the vehicle navigation system is configured to alter a speed of the vehicle.
36. The vehicle of claim 29, further comprising a radar; and wherein, to identify the target vehicle in the environment of the vehicle, the vehicle navigation system is configured to use radar of the vehicle.
37. At least one non-transitory machine-readable medium including instructions that, when executed by circuitry of a vehicle component for a vehicle, cause the circuitry to perform operations comprising: identifying a target vehicle in an environment of the vehicle; receiving image data of the target vehicle from at least one image capture device of the vehicle; identifying, based on analysis of the image data, one or more situational characteristics of the target vehicle, the situational characteristics of the target including an indication that the target vehicle has an activated blinker; and changing a navigational state of the vehicle to allow an action of the target vehicle, the vehicle configured to cause the change in the navigational state based on a determination that the one or more situational characteristics, including the activated blinker, indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from the change in the navigational state.
38. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle would benefit from a course change into a path of the vehicle.
39. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 38, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle has moved laterally towards the path of the vehicle.
40. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the one or more situational characteristics indicate that the target vehicle is traveling in a lane adjacent to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
41. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 37, wherein the action is a cut-in to a lane in which the vehicle is traveling.
42. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 41, wherein the action is a cut-in to the lane in which the vehicle is traveling occurs at an interchange.
43. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 37, wherein changing the navigational state of the vehicle includes altering a speed of the vehicle.
44. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 37, wherein identifying the target vehicle in the environment of the vehicle includes using radar of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
