<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/08,A61B5/113,G01S13/50,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE CHAZAL, PHILIP
SHOULDICE, REDMOND
ZAFFARONI, Alberto
HENEGHAN, Conor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
42116015
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS, SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CHRONIC DISEASE MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, system, and method for monitoring a person suffering from a chronic medical condition predicts and assesses physiological changes which could affect the care of that subject. Examples of such chronic diseases include (but are not limited to) heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, and diabetes. Monitoring includes measurements of respiratory movements, which can then be analyzed for evidence of changes in respiratory rate, or for events such as hypopneas, apneas and periodic breathing. Monitoring may be augmented by the measurement of nocturnal heart rate in conjunction with respiratory monitoring. Additional physiological measurements can also be taken such as subjective symptom data, blood pressure, blood oxygen levels, and various molecular markers. Embodiments for detection of respiratory patterns and heart rate are disclosed, together with exemplar implementations of decision processes based on these measurements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a sensor configured to receive signals reflected from a subject's body; and one or more processors configured to: generate respiratory movement data from at least one reflected signal received by the sensor; derive a first respiratory parameter from the respiratory movement data; derive a respiratory effort envelope from the respiratory movement data; derive a second respiratory parameter from the respiratory effort envelope, wherein the second respiratory parameter comprises an apnea hypopnea index or a periodic breathing index; combine at least the first and second respiratory parameters to determine, using a classifier, a numerical value; and provide an output pertaining to a health assessment of the subject based on a comparison between the numerical value and a predetermined threshold.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a database configured to store the first and second respiratory parameters.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a display configured to visualize a trend in the health assessment of the subject.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine a proposed clinical intervention by applying a set of automated rules to the health assessment of the subject.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to calculate a likelihood of a clinical deterioration having occurred based on the comparison between the numerical value and the predetermined threshold.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the calculated likelihood is a likelihood of clinical deterioration in heart failure having occurred.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the classifier combines a physiological parameter with the first and second respiratory parameters to determine the numerical value, and wherein the physiological parameter comprises a blood pressure, a forced expiratory volume, a peak expiratory flow, a blood oxygen level, a blood glucose level, a measurement of B natriuretic peptides, a measurement of C reactive protein, or a body weight.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor is configured to transmit radio waves and receive at least one of the transmitted radio waves reflected from the subject's body, and wherein the at least one reflected signal received by the sensor is the at least one of the transmitted radio waves reflected from the subject's body.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the respiratory movement data is generated from a combination of two or more reflected quadrature signals received by the sensor.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one reflected signal comprises two or more components corresponding to respiratory effort and at least one of bodily movement or heart rate.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to derive cardiac or bodily motion parameters from the at least one reflected signal, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to combine the cardiac or bodily motion parameters with the first and second respiratory parameters to determine, using the classifier, the numerical value.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the first respiratory parameter is derived from a power spectral density of the respiratory movement data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first respiratory parameter is a respiration rate corresponding to a peak of the power spectral density.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the first respiratory parameter comprises an average respiratory frequency, a median respiratory frequency, a variance of respiratory frequency, a percentile distribution of respiratory frequency, or an autocorrelation of respiratory frequency.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the second respiratory parameter comprises an apnea hypopnea index.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein deriving the apnea hypopnea index comprises comparing an overall amplitude of the respiratory effort envelope to one or more thresholds.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the second respiratory parameter comprises a periodic breathing index.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the periodic breathing index is derived from a power spectral density of the respiratory effort envelope.
19. A method for monitoring a subject, the method comprising: receiving, at a sensor, at least one signal reflected from the subject's body; generating, by one or more processors, respiratory movement data from the at least one reflected signal; deriving, by the one or more processors, a first respiratory parameter from the respiratory movement data; deriving, by the one or more processors, a respiratory effort envelope from the respiratory movement data; deriving, by the one or more processors, a second respiratory parameter from the respiratory effort envelope, wherein the second respiratory parameter comprises an apnea hypopnea index or a periodic breathing index; combining, by the one or more processors, at least the first and second respiratory parameters to determine, using a classifier, a numerical value; and providing, by the one or more processors, an output pertaining to a health assessment of the subject based on a comparison between the numerical value and a predetermined threshold.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising: calculating, by the one or more processors, a likelihood of a clinical deterioration having occurred based on the comparison between the numerical value and the predetermined threshold.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the calculated likelihood is a likelihood of clinical deterioration in heart failure having occurred.
22. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium containing program instructions for causing one or more processors to: generate respiratory movement data from at least one signal reflected from a subject's body and received by a sensor; derive a first respiratory parameter from the respiratory movement data; derive a respiratory effort envelope from the respiratory movement data; derive a second respiratory parameter from the respiratory effort envelope, wherein the second respiratory parameter comprises an apnea hypopnea index or a periodic breathing index; combine at least the first and second respiratory parameters to determine, using a classifier, a numerical value; and provide an output pertaining to a health assessment of the subject based on a comparison between the numerical value and a predetermined threshold.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to calculate a likelihood of a clinical deterioration having occurred based on the comparison between the numerical value and the predetermined threshold.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the calculated likelihood is a likelihood of clinical deterioration in heart failure having occurred.
</claims>
</document>
