<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAG FINANCIAL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, PAVAN
RIVERA, JONATHAN ORTIZ
SANCHEZ, GABRIEL ALBORS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883539
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING RECOMMENDATIONS BASED ON CONSUMER LOCATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for providing for providing location specific recommendations related to promotional advertisements provided by merchants in a geolocation. Merchants and consumers may utilize recommendation platforms that allow consumers to receive recommendations generated based on consumer and other information related to promotional advertisements from merchants occupying the same geolocation as consumers. A recommendation can be a suggestion or advice for a particular promotional advertisement selected from all of the promotional advertisements provided by merchants occupying the same geolocation as consumers. A merchant may input information associated with and/or relevant to the merchant. A consumer may input information associated with and/or relevant to the consumer. The recommendation may be generated based on the obtained geolocation information, merchant information, and consumer information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing recommendations based on user geolocation in a client application utilizing the user information, the method comprising: obtaining user information, the user information including demographic information of a user and preference information of the user, such that the demographic information indicating demographic characteristics of the user and the preference information indicating at least one user selected product category; obtaining behavioral and social information of the user based the demographic characteristics of the user and the at least one user selected product category; obtaining geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of the user; obtaining promotional information associated with one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user, the promotional information including at least one merchant promotional event; determining one or more user promotional events by analyzing the at least one merchant promotional event associated with the one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user and the at least one user selected product category; generating a set of recommendations based on the plurality of user promotional events, the set of recommendations representing a subset of the of user promotional events; and presenting the set of recommendations within a graphical interface of an application.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a set of value estimates for each of the one or more user promotional events.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of value estimates for each of the one or more user promotional events is determined based on at least one of the preference information and the user behavioral and social information.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising ordering the one or more user promotional events, such that each of the one or more user promotional events is ordered based on an order specified by the set of value estimates, wherein individual user promotional events that have a determined higher value estimate are given a higher order number than the individual user promotional events that do not.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a notification comprising the set of recommendations.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining at least one extrinsic preference using the behavioral and social information of the user.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the merchant promotional event includes at least one of a promotional event category and promotional event data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the plurality of user promotional events is performed by analyzing the promotional category and promotional event details of the one or more promotional events associated with the one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user and the at least one extrinsic preference.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavioral and social information of the user is obtained via one or more social media account specified by the user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the demographic characteristics include at least one or more of the user's age, sex, and/or race.
11. A system configured to analyze user information and provide recommendations based on user geolocation in a client application utilizing the user information, the system comprising: one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: obtain user information, the user information including demographic information of a user and preference information of the user, such that the demographic information indicating demographic characteristics of the user and the preference information indicating at least one user selected product category; obtain behavioral and social information of the user based on the demographic characteristics of the user and the at least one user selected product category; obtain geolocation information, the geolocation information indicating a geolocation of the user; obtain promotional information associated with one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user, the promotional information including at least one merchant promotional event; determine at least one of user promotional event by analyzing the one or more merchant promotional events associated with the one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user and the at least one user selected product category; generate a set of recommendations comprising the at least one or more user promotional event; and present the set of recommendations within a graphical interface of an application.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by machine-readable instructions to determine a set of value estimates for each of the one or more user promotional events.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of value estimates for each of the one or more user promotional events is determined based on at least one of the preference information and the user behavioral and social information.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by machine-readable instructions to: order the one or more user promotional events, such that each of the one or more user promotional events is ordered based on an order specified by the set of value estimates, wherein individual user promotional events that have a determined higher value estimate are given a higher order number than the individual user promotional events that do not.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the set of recommendations are ordered based on the ordered one or more user promotional events, the order of individual recommendations reflecting a likelihood the user may accept the individual recommendation.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by machine-readable instructions to generate a notification comprising the set of recommendations.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the merchant promotional event includes at least one of a promotional event category and promotional event data.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by machine-readable instructions to determine at least one extrinsic preference using the behavioral and social information of the user.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein determining the plurality of user promotional events is performed by analyzing the promotional category and promotional event details of the one or more merchant promotional events associated with the one or more merchants at the geolocation of the user and the at least one extrinsic preference.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the behavioral and social information of the user is obtained via one or more social media account specified by the user.
21. The system of claim 11, wherein the demographic characteristics include at least one or more of the user's age, sex, and/or race.
</claims>
</document>
