<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LAWRENCE LIVERMORE NATIONAL SECURITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Higbee, Shawn D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231547
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MISSION-DRIVEN DESIGN METHODOLOGY FOR OPTICAL SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are devices, systems and methods for a mission-driven design framework for optical systems. An exemplary method for improving the design of an optical system includes receive a first plurality of parameters indicative of performance requirements of the optical system, receive a second plurality of parameters representative of characteristics of one or more components in the optical system, generate a mathematical representation that combines the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters, perform a sensitivity analysis to obtain a ranking of parameters from the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters, select, based on the ranking of the parameters, at least one parameter that produces a largest change in the mathematical representation, and produce a constraint file comprising the at least one parameter for ingestion by a design tool to enable the design of the optical system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for improving a design of an optical system, the apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory memory with instructions stored thereon, the instructions upon execution by the at least one processor, causing the at least one processor to: receive a first plurality of parameters indicative of performance requirements of the optical system; receive a second plurality of parameters representative of characteristics of one or more components in the optical system; generate a mathematical representation that combines the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters; perform a sensitivity analysis to obtain a ranking of parameters from the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters, wherein a change in a parameter with a higher rank produces a larger change in the mathematical representation than a parameter with a lower rank; select, based on the ranking of the parameters, at least one parameter that produces a largest change in the mathematical representation; and produce a constraint file comprising the at least one parameter for ingestion by a design tool to enable the design of the optical system.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions upon execution by the at least one processor further cause the at least one processor, as part of performing the sensitivity analysis, to: generate a frequency-domain representation of the mathematical representation; and compute a singular value decomposition of the frequency-domain representation.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein generating the frequency-domain representation is based on one of a Fourier transform, a discrete cosine transform (DCT), a Laplace transform or a Z-transform.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein computing the singular value decomposition produces a plurality of eigenvalues, and wherein the ranking of parameters is based on magnitudes of the plurality of eigenvalues.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein combining the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters comprises combining linear or non-linear functions of the first plurality of parameters and linear or non-linear functions of the second plurality of parameters.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mathematical representation is a National Image Interpretability Rating Scale (NIIRS) based on a General Image Quality Equation (GIQE).
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the second plurality of parameters comprises a Ground Sampled Distance (GSD) and a Relative Edge Response (RER).
8. A method for improving a design of an optical system, the method comprising: receiving a first plurality of parameters indicative of performance requirements of the optical system; receiving a second plurality of parameters representative of characteristics of one or more components in the optical system; generating a mathematical representation that combines the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters; performing a sensitivity analysis to obtain a ranking of parameters from the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters, wherein a change in a parameter with a higher rank produces a larger change in the mathematical representation than a parameter with a lower rank; selecting, based on the ranking of the parameters, at least one parameter that produces a largest change in the mathematical representation; and producing a constraint file comprising the at least one parameter for ingestion by a design tool to enable the design of the optical system.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the sensitivity analysis comprises: generating a frequency-domain representation of the mathematical representation; and computing a singular value decomposition of the frequency-domain representation.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the frequency-domain representation is based on one of a Fourier transform, a discrete cosine transform (DCT), a Laplace transform or a Z-transform.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein computing the singular value decomposition produces a plurality of eigenvalues, and wherein the ranking of parameters is based on magnitudes of the plurality of eigenvalues.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein combining the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters comprises combining linear or non-linear functions of the first plurality of parameters and linear or non-linear functions of the second plurality of parameters.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the mathematical representation is a National Image Interpretability Rating Scale (NIIRS) based on a General Image Quality Equation (GIQE).
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second plurality of parameters comprises a Ground Sampled Distance (GSD) and a Relative Edge Response (RER).
15. A non-transitory computer readable program storage medium having code stored thereon, the code, when executed by a processor, causing the processor to implement a method for improving a design of an optical system, the method comprising: receiving a first plurality of parameters indicative of performance requirements of the optical system; receiving a second plurality of parameters representative of characteristics of one or more components in the optical system; generating a mathematical representation that combines the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters; performing a sensitivity analysis to obtain a ranking of parameters from the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters, wherein a change in a parameter with a higher rank produces a larger change in the mathematical representation than a parameter with a lower rank; selecting, based on the ranking of the parameters, at least one parameter that produces a largest change in the mathematical representation; and producing a constraint file comprising the at least one parameter for ingestion by a design tool to enable the design of the optical system.
16. The non-transitory computer readable program storage medium of claim 15, wherein the method, as part of performing the sensitivity analysis, further comprises: generating a frequency-domain representation of the mathematical representation; and computing a singular value decomposition of the frequency-domain representation.
17. The non-transitory computer readable program storage medium of claim 16, wherein generating the frequency-domain representation is based on one of a Fourier transform, a discrete cosine transform (DCT), a Laplace transform or a Z-transform.
18. The non-transitory computer readable program storage medium of claim 16, wherein computing the singular value decomposition produces a plurality of eigenvalues, and wherein the ranking of parameters is based on magnitudes of the plurality of eigenvalues.
19. The non-transitory computer readable program storage medium of claim 15, wherein combining the first plurality of parameters and the second plurality of parameters comprises combining linear or non-linear functions of the first plurality of parameters and linear or non-linear functions of the second plurality of parameters.
20. The non-transitory computer readable program storage medium of claim 15, wherein the mathematical representation is a National Image Interpretability Rating Scale (NIIRS) based on a General Image Quality Equation (GIQE).
</claims>
</document>
