<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K35/00,B60W50/14,G01C21/36,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIN, SEAN
NIX, MOLLY CASTLE
ZHAO, DENNIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62952385
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods to Obtain Feedback in Response to Autonomous Vehicle Failure Events
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides systems and methods to obtain feedback descriptive of autonomous vehicle failures. In particular, the systems and methods of the present disclosure can detect that a vehicle failure event occurred at an autonomous vehicle and, in response, provide an interactive user interface that enables a human located within the autonomous vehicle to enter feedback that describes the vehicle failure event. Thus, the systems and methods of the present disclosure can actively prompt and/or enable entry of feedback in response to a particular instance of a vehicle failure event, thereby enabling improved and streamlined collection of information about autonomous vehicle failures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining that a vehicle failure event has occurred during a ride provided by an autonomous vehicle for a rider; in response to determining that the vehicle failure event has occurred, providing an interactive user interface that enables the rider to enter feedback for the vehicle failure event, wherein the interactive user interface comprises a plurality of user-selectable icons that respectively correspond to a plurality of different types of vehicle failure events, each user-selectable icon selectable by the rider to provide the feedback indicative of the corresponding type of vehicle failure event; receiving the feedback entered by the rider via the interactive user interface; and associating the feedback with one or more of: a time at which the vehicle failure event occurred, a location at which the vehicle failure event occurred, or data collected by the autonomous vehicle during the vehicle failure event.
22. The computing system of claim 21, further comprising: a front-seat display device that is accessible by both a passenger that is located in a front passenger seat of the autonomous vehicle and a driver that is located in a driver seat of the autonomous vehicle; wherein providing the interactive user interface comprises displaying the interactive user interface on the front-seat display.
23. The computing system of claim 21, wherein providing the interactive user interface comprises wirelessly providing the interactive user interface to a handheld computing device associated with the rider for display by the handheld computing device.
24. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the computing system comprises an autonomy system and a human machine interface device, wherein one or both of the autonomy system and the human machine interface device perform the operation of determining that the vehicle failure event has occurred during the ride provided by the autonomous vehicle.
25. The computing system of claim 21, wherein the computing system comprises a central computing system that is configured to perform additional operations, the additional operations comprising: aggregating multiple instances of triage data received via the interactive user interface relative to multiple detected vehicle failure events over time; and determining an aggregate performance score for at least the autonomous vehicle relative to at least one physical location based at least in part on the aggregated multiple instances of triage data.
26. The computing system of claim 21, wherein providing the interactive user interface that enables the rider to enter the feedback for the vehicle failure event comprises providing the interactive user interface while the rider is located in the autonomous vehicle.
27. A computer-implemented method to obtain feedback descriptive of autonomous vehicles failures, the method comprising: determining, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices, that a vehicle failure event has occurred during a ride provided by an autonomous vehicle for a rider; in response to determining that the vehicle failure event has occurred, providing, by the computing system, an interactive user interface that enables the rider to enter feedback that describes the vehicle failure event, wherein the interactive user interface comprises a plurality of user-selectable icons that respectively correspond to a plurality of different types of vehicle failure events, each user-selectable icon selectable by the rider to provide the feedback indicative of the corresponding type of vehicle failure event; receiving, by the computing system, the feedback entered by the rider via the interactive user interface; and associating, by the computing system, the feedback with one or more of: a time at which the vehicle failure event occurred, a location at which the vehicle failure event occurred, or data collected by the autonomous vehicle during the vehicle failure event.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that includes a plurality of nested hierarchical menus.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein: determining, by the computing system, that the vehicle failure event has occurred comprises detecting, by the computing system, that a human intervention event in which a human driver assumed control of the autonomous vehicle has occurred at the autonomous vehicle; and providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises automatically providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface in response to detecting that the human intervention event occurred.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein: determining, by the computing system, that the vehicle failure event occurred comprises receiving, by the computing system, a rider input from the rider requesting to enter the feedback; and providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises transitioning, by the computing system, the interactive user interface to a feedback menu in response to receiving the rider input requesting to enter the feedback.
31. The computer-implemented method of claim 30, wherein receiving, by the computing system, the rider input from the rider requesting to enter the feedback comprises receiving, by the computing system, a rider selection of a feedback icon presented on the interactive user interface.
32. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises displaying the interactive user interface on a front-seat display device that is accessible by at least one of a front seat passenger located in a front passenger seat of the autonomous vehicle and a driver located in a driver seat of the autonomous vehicle.
33. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises: providing for display, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that initially enables the rider to indicate a criticality level of the vehicle failure event; and receiving, by the computing system, a user input that indicates the criticality level of the vehicle failure event; and in response to receiving the user input that indicates the criticality level of the vehicle failure event, providing for display, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that provides the plurality of user-selectable icons that respectively correspond to the plurality of different types of vehicle failure events.
34. The computer-implemented method of claim 33, wherein providing for display, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that provides the plurality of user-selectable icons in response to receiving the user input that indicates the criticality level of the vehicle failure event comprises providing for display, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that provides the plurality of user-selectable icons in response to receiving the user input that indicates that the criticality level of the vehicle failure event is greater than a threshold criticality level.
35. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, further comprising: in response to receiving the feedback that selects one of the plurality of user-selectable icons, causing, by the computing system, the user interface to provide a secondary menu that provides a second plurality of user-selectable icons that respectively correspond to different descriptions of the selected type of vehicle failure event.
36. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein providing, by the computing system, the interactive user interface comprises providing for display, by the computing system, the interactive user interface that includes both a navigational portion and a feedback portion, wherein the navigational portion comprises at least one of navigational instructions and a map, and wherein the feedback portion enables the rider located within the autonomous vehicle to enter the feedback that describes the vehicle failure event.
37. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, further comprising: automatically dismissing, by the computing system, a feedback menu of the interactive user interface when feedback is not entered by the user within a predetermined amount of time.
38. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, further comprising: aggregating, by the computing system, multiple instances of triage data received via the interactive user interface relative to multiple detected vehicle failure events over time; and determining, by the computing system, an aggregate performance score for at least the autonomous vehicle relative to at least one physical location based at least in part on the aggregated multiple instances of triage data.
39. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein providing the interactive user interface comprises providing the interactive user interface while the rider is in the autonomous vehicle.
40. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause a computing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining that a vehicle failure event has occurred during a ride provided by an autonomous vehicle for a rider; in response to determining that the vehicle failure event has occurred, providing an interactive user interface that enables the rider to enter feedback that describes the vehicle failure event, wherein the interactive user interface comprises a plurality of user-selectable icons that respectively correspond to a plurality of different types of vehicle failure events, each user-selectable icon selectable by the rider to provide the feedback indicative of the corresponding type of vehicle failure event; receiving the feedback entered by the rider via the interactive user interface; and associating the feedback with at least one of: a time at which the vehicle failure event occurred, a location at which the vehicle failure event occurred, or data collected by the autonomous vehicle during the vehicle failure event.
</claims>
</document>
