<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/52,G06F21/62,G06N3/08,G06N7/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SECUREWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANFORD, ROBERT
HACKWORTH, AARON
RAMSEY, JON
VIDAS, TIMOTHY
URBANSKI, WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66327777
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SHARING, DISTRIBUTING, OR ACCESSING SECURITY DATA AND/OR SECURITY APPLICATIONS, MODELS, OR ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for building security applications can be provided. Data policies for accessing security data can be set, and a module pipeline including one or more modules selected from a plurality of modules can be generated. The modules can include at least one module operable to apply a predictive security application or model for detection or identification of security threats. Module execution policies governing execution of the one or more modules in the module pipeline also can be set. Upon receipt of a request to initiate execution of the module pipeline, it can be determined if the execution thereof would violate the data policies or the module execution policies. If so, execution of the module pipeline can be blocked, otherwise the module pipeline can be executed to process the portion of the security data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for building security applications, comprising: setting data policies for accessing security data based on one or more selected parameters; generating a module pipeline including selecting one or more modules from a plurality of modules configured to be executed according to a prescribed sequence for accessing and processing of the security data, the plurality of modules including at least one module operable to apply a predictive security application or model to the security data for detection or identification of security threats; setting module execution policies governing execution of the one or more modules in the module pipeline; receiving a request to initiate execution of the module pipeline to access and process at least a portion of the security data; determining if the execution of the module pipeline would violate at least one of the data policies or at least one of the module execution policies, and if so, prohibiting execution of the module pipeline; and if execution of the module pipeline does not violate at least one of the data polies or module execution policies, initiating execution of the module pipeline to process the accessed portion of the security data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one predictive security application or model includes artificial intelligence, a neural network, machine learning, statistical analysis, probabilistic modeling, named entity recognition, or combinations thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: setting infrastructure policies that determine a time, a location, or resources to be used for execution of the one or more modules in the module pipeline, and if execution of the module pipeline violates at least one of the infrastructure policies, blocking execution of the module pipeline.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating historical metrics that capture previously developed data policies, module policies, and infrastructure policies; and if execution of the module pipeline conflicts with one or more of the historical metrics, blocking execution of the module pipeline.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules further includes one or more modules operable to normalize the portion of the accessed security data, one or more modules operable to take one or more preventative or remedial actions based on detected or identified security threats, and one or more modules for sharing or providing access to at least a portion of the accessed the security data with like actors or sharing partners.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more security threats or malicious action based on application of the predictive security application or model.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising taking one or more remedial actions upon identification of the one or more security threats or malicious actions.
8. A system for building security applications, comprising: A series of information handling devices or systems, each including: a memory; and at least one processor configured to access and execute instructions stored in the one or more memories such that the system is configured to: set data policies for accessing security data based on one or more selected parameters; generate a module pipeline including one or more modules selected from a plurality of modules to be executed according to a prescribed sequence for processing of the security data, the plurality of modules including at least one module operable to apply a predictive security application or model for detection or identification of security threats; set module execution policies governing execution of the one or more modules in the module pipeline; receive a request to initiate execution of the module pipeline to access and process at least a portion of the security data; and determine if the execution of the module pipeline would violate at least one of the data policies or at least one of the module execution policies, and if so, prohibit execution of the module pipeline, otherwise execute the module pipeline to process the portion of the security data.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one predictive security application or model includes artificial intelligence, a neural network, machine learning, statistical analysis, probabilistic modeling, named entity recognition, or combinations thereof.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the system is further configured to set infrastructure policies that determine a time, a location, or resources to be used for execution of the one or more modules in the module pipeline, and if execution of the module pipeline violates at least one of the infrastructure policies, block execution of the module pipeline.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the system is further configured to generate historical metrics that capture previously developed data policies, module policies, and infrastructure policies; and if execution of the module pipeline conflicts with one or more of the historical metrics, block execution of the module pipeline.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of modules further includes one or more modules operable to normalize the portion of the security data, one or more modules operable to take one or more preventative or remedial actions based on detected or identified security threats, and one or more modules for providing access to the security data with like actors or sharing partners.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the system is further configured to identify one or more security threats or malicious action based on application of the predictive security application or model.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the system is further configured to take one or more remedial actions upon identification of the one or more security threats or malicious actions.
15. A method, comprising: collecting security data obtained from monitoring of one or more networks or systems; setting one or more data access parameters for providing access to, publishing, or sharing of the security data; providing access to, publishing, or sharing portions of the security data with one or more actors, partners, communities, or managed security service providers based on the one or more data access parameters; selecting a series of modules for identifying security threats or malicious actions based at least in part on the security data, including at least one module configured to apply one or more predictive security models or applications to the portion of the security data accessed, published or shared for detection or identification of one or more security threats; and at least one module operable to determine a remedial action to be taken to mitigate or eliminate one or more identified or detected security threats; setting module execution parameters for executing the one or more modules, including one or more parameters for creating, updating and/or modifying the one or more predictive security models or applications; and one or more parameters for determine remedial actions taken for detected or identified security threats; and executing the one or more modules based on the module execution parameters for identifying of security threats or malicious actions.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising generating an alarm or taking an action upon identification of a security threat or malicious action.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising generating new or updated security data based on execution of the one or modules or module pipelines.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more modules or module pipelines includes at least one probabilistic model.
</claims>
</document>
