<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/11,A61B5/113,G01S13/50,H05B47/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, TAEHO
LEE, WONKYU
KIM, SEOUNGHUN
KIM, HYUNSU
SHIM, HWAN
LEE, SUN-KEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64273919
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING SLEEP-RELATED INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device according to various embodiments comprises: a bio-signal detection sensor configured to acquire first and second biometric information on an object outside the electronic device; and a processor, wherein the processor can be configured to: acquire the first and second biometric information by using the bio-signal detection sensor; configure a first variance, in which the first biometric information is changed, and a second variance, in which the second biometric information is changed; determining a state of the object related to the sleep on the basis of at least a part of the first variance and the second variance; and estimate a sleep latency related to the object on the basis of at least a part of the state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-15. (canceled)
16. An electronic device comprising: a biometric signal detection sensor configured to acquire first biometric information and second biometric information on an object outside the electronic device; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire the first biometric information and the second biometric information through the biometric signal detection sensor, identify a first change of the first biometric information and a second change of the second biometric information, determine a state of the object related to sleep, based on at least a portion of the first change and the second change, and estimate a sleep latency related to the object, based on at least a portion of the state.
17. An electronic device comprising: a memory configured to store instructions; an RF sensor configured to transmit a Radio Frequency (RF) signal and receive a reflection signal of the RF signal; and one or more processors coupled to the RF sensor and the memory and configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: identify one or more signals indicating a state of a user within the received reflection signal, monitor a change (difference) in data determined based on the one or more signals according to a time, determine that a time point at which the user actually begins sleeping is a first time point at which the monitored change is smaller than a first reference value, determine that a time point at which the user intends to sleep is a second time point at which the monitored change is larger than a second reference value, determine that a sleep latency of the user is a time interval between the first time point and the second time point, and store information on the determined time interval.
18. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: monitor the received reflection signal, identify the one or more signals within the received reflection signal in response to monitoring that a change in the reflection signal is output of a predetermined range, and store the data in the memory or temporarily store the data in response to monitoring that the change in the reflection signal is output of the predetermined range.
19. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein the predetermined range is configured to identify whether the user is located in a specified area.
20. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: identify the stored data in response to the determination that the time point at which the user actually begins sleeping is the first time point, identify the second time point at which the change within the stored data is larger than the second reference value, and determine that the time point at which the user intends to sleep is the second time point.
21. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the one or more signals comprise a first signal indicating motion of the user, a second signal indicating a breath state of the user, or a third signal indicating a heartbeat state of the user.
22. The electronic device of claim 21, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: acquire a first value indicating the motion of the user from the first signal, acquire a second value indicating the breath state of the user from the second signal, acquire a third value indicating the heartbeat state of the user from the third signal, and determine that a probability of a sleep state of the user is the data, based on at least a portion of the first value, the second value, and the third value.
23. The electronic device of claim 21, wherein the RF sensor comprises a plurality of filters, and the one or more processors are configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: identify the first signal related to a first band within the received reflection signal through a first filter in the plurality of filters, identify the second signal related to a second band within the received reflection signal through a second filter in the plurality of filters, and identify the third signal related to a third band within the received reflection signal through a third filter in the plurality of filters.
24. The electronic device of claim 17, further comprising an illumination sensor configured to measure illumination of light around the electronic device and a microphone configured to receive a sound signal around the electronic device, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the stored instructions in order to: determine a time point at which the user actually begins sleeping based on at least a portion of information on the illumination and information on the sound signal, and determine a time point at which the user intends to sleep based on at least a portion of the information on the illumination and the information on the sound signal.
25. The electronic device of claim 17, further comprising a circuit configured to control a brightness of an environment in which the electronic device is located, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the stored instructions in order to control the brightness of the environment in which the electronic device is located in response to the determination of the time point at which the user actually begins sleeping.
26. The electronic device of claim 17, further comprising a communication interface configured to communicate with an external electronic device, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the stored instructions in order to transmit information on the determined time interval to the external electronic device.
27. The electronic device of claim 17, further comprising a speaker configured to output a sound signal, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the stored instructions in order to change the output sound signal in response to the determination of the time point at which the user actually begins sleeping.
28. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the RF sensor comprises a transmission circuit configured to transmit the RF signal through a plurality of beams and a plurality of antennas, and the one or more processors are configured to execute the stored instructions in order to transmit the RF signal through the plurality of beams.
29. A method of an electronic device, the method comprising: transmitting a Radio Frequency (RF) signal; receiving a reflection signal of the RF signal; identifying one or more signals indicating a state of a user within the received reflection signal; monitoring a change (difference) in data determined based on the one or more signals according to a time; determining that a time point at which the user actually begins sleeping is a time point at which the monitored change is smaller than a first reference value; determining that a time point at which the user intends to sleep is a second time point at which the monitored change is larger than a second reference value; determining that a sleep latency of the user is a time interval between the first time point and the second time point; and storing information on the determined time interval.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising: monitoring the received reflection signal; identifying the one or more signals within the received reflection signal in response to monitoring that a change in the reflection signal is output of a predetermined range; and storing the data in the memory or temporarily store the data in response to monitoring that the change in the reflection signal is output of the predetermined range.
31. The method of claim 29, further comprising: determining a time point at which the user actually begins sleeping based on at least a portion of information on illumination of light and information on the sound signal; and determining a time point at which the user intends to sleep based on at least a portion of the information on illumination of light and information on the sound signal.
32. The method of claim 29, further comprising: controlling a brightness of an environment in which the electronic device is located in response to the determination of the time point at which the user actually begins sleeping.
33. The method of claim 29, further comprising: transmitting information on the determined time interval to the external electronic device.
34. The method of claim 29, further comprising: changing an output sound signal in response to the determination of the time point at which the user actually begins sleeping.
35. The method of claim 29, further comprising: transmitting the RF signal through a plurality of beams and a plurality of antennas.
</claims>
</document>
