<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N10/00,G06N20/10,G06N20/20,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZAPATA COMPUTING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASPURU-GUZIK, ALAN
ROMERO, JHONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160053
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Quantum Computer with Improved Continuous Quantum Generator
</title>

<abstract>
A hybrid quantum classical (HQC) computer which includes both a classical computer component and a quantum computer component performs generative learning on continuous data distributions. The HQC computer is capable of being implemented using existing and near-term quantum computer components having relatively low circuit depth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a variational quantum generator circuit comprising: a first quantum encoding circuit, which receives as input a real value z from a classical distribution and encodes the real value as an input quantum state |R(z), having r qubits; and a quantum generator circuit G(Θg), which receives the input quantum state and acts on a register of n qubits including the input quantum state, with n≥r, and which generates classical data xFake by measuring, by a measurement decoding component, at least one expectation value of a fixed set of observables.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one expectation value of the fixed set of observables is expressed as strings of Pauli matrices {Pi}i=1, . . . ,M, as shown in the following equation:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?xFake=ƒ(α[P1, P2, . . . , PM]+α)description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where Pi=ψ(x)|Pi|ψ(x), and α and β are real parameters that adjust range of the observed data and ƒ is a mathematical function acting on the composed output measurements.
3. The device of claim 1 further comprising functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to a classical computing component for additional processing.
4. The device of claim 1 further comprising functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to a classical discriminator executed by a classical computing component for additional processing.
5. The device of claim 1 further comprising functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to a neural network executed by a classical computing component for additional processing.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the measurement decoding component further comprises functionality for applying a measurement decoding scheme to a value stored by at least one of the n qubits, wherein applying the measurement decoding scheme modifies the physical state of the measured qubit.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the quantum generator circuit further comprises functionality for modifying a physical state of at least one qubit in the register of n qubits to put the at least one qubit into the input quantum state in accordance with the result of applying an encoding scheme to the real value.
8. The device of claim 1 further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving the real value x, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the real value x as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
9. The device of claim 1 further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving the real value x, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the real value x as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
10. The device of claim 1 further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
11. The device of claim 1 further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
12. The device of claim 1 further comprising a quantum discriminator receiving at least one quantum output state from a second quantum encoding circuit and measuring an observable in the received at least one quantum output state.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein measuring the observable comprises measuring a designated qubit.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for applying a measurement scheme to measure the designated qubit, wherein applying the measurement scheme to measure the designated qubit modifies a physical state of the measured designated qubit.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for identifying a probability that the quantum output state belongs to the received classical distribution based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
16. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for identifying a probability that the received at least one quantum output state belongs to the received data xFake based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
17. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for evaluating a cost function representing a level of difference between the received input from the classical distribution and the received data xFake.
18. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for generating an optimized cost function representing a level of difference between the received input from the classical distribution and the received data xFake, wherein the received input further comprises a plurality of data points and the received data further comprises a plurality of data points.
19. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state.
20. The device of claim 12, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for applying amplitude encoding to the received at least one quantum output state.
21. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a classical computing component implementing a von Neumann architecture; and wherein the quantum computing component is in communication with the classical computing component.
22. The device of claim 21, wherein the quantum computing component further comprises functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to the classical computing component for additional processing.
23. The device of claim 21, further comprising a classical discriminator, and wherein the quantum computing component further comprises functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to the classical discriminator executed by the classical computing component for additional processing.
24. The device of claim 21, wherein the classical computing component comprises an artificial neural network, and wherein the quantum computing component further comprises functionality for transmitting the generated data xFake to the artificial neural network for additional processing.
25. The device of claim 21, wherein the quantum generator circuit further comprises functionality for applying a measurement decoding scheme to a value stored by at least one of the n qubits, wherein applying the measurement decoding scheme modifies a physical state of the measured qubit.
26. The device of claim 21, wherein the quantum generator circuit further comprises functionality for modifying a physical state of at least one qubit in the register of n qubits to put the at least one qubit into the input quantum state in accordance with the result of applying an encoding scheme to the real value.
27. The device of claim 21, further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving the real value z, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the real value z as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
28. The device of claim 21, further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving the real value z, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the real value z as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
29. The device of claim 21, further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
30. The device of claim 21, further comprising a second quantum encoding circuit receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
31. The device of claim 21, further comprising a quantum discriminator receiving at least one quantum output state from a second quantum encoding circuit, applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state, and measuring a designated qubit in the received at least one quantum output state.
32. The device of claim 31, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for applying a measurement scheme to measure the designated qubit, wherein applying the measurement scheme modifies a physical state of the measured designated qubit.
33. The device of claim 31, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for identifying a probability that the quantum output state belongs to the received classical distribution based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
34. The device of claim 30, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for identifying a probability that the received at least one quantum output state belongs to the received data xFake based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
35. The device of claim 30, wherein the quantum discriminator further comprises functionality for generating an optimized cost function representing a level of difference between the received input from the classical distribution and the received data xFake.
36. The device of claim 21, further comprising: a second quantum encoding circuit receiving the real value z, applying an encoding algorithm to encode the real value z as a quantum state output; and a quantum discriminator receiving the quantum output state from the second quantum encoding circuit, applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state, and measuring a designated qubit in the received at least one quantum output state to determine whether the quantum output state belongs to the classical distribution or to the received data xFake.
37. The device of claim 21, further comprising: a second quantum encoding circuit receiving a value from the data xFake, applying an encoding algorithm to encode the received value as a quantum state output; and a quantum discriminator receiving the quantum output state from the second quantum encoding circuit, applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state, and measuring a designated qubit in the received at least one quantum output state to determine whether the quantum output state belongs to the classical distribution or to the data xFake.
38. The device of claim 21, further comprising: functionality for transmitting, to the classical discriminator of the classical computing component, xFake.
39. A method performed by a device, the device comprising a variational quantum generator circuit, the method comprising: at a first quantum encoding circuit in the variational quantum generator circuit, receiving as input a real value z from a classical distribution and encodes the real value as an input quantum state |R(z), having r qubits; and at a quantum generator circuit G(Θg) in the variational quantum generator circuit: receiving the input quantum state and acts on a register of n qubits including the input quantum state, with n≥r, and generating classical data xFake by measuring, by a measurement decoding component, at least one expectation value of a fixed set of observables.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the at least one expectation value of the fixed set of observables is expressed as strings of Pauli matrices {Pi}i=1, . . . M, as shown in the following equation:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?xFake=ƒ(α[P1, P2, . . . , PM]+α)description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where Pi=ψ(x)|Pi|ψ(x), and α and β are real parameters that adjust range of the observed data and ƒ is a mathematical function acting on the composed output measurements.
41. The method of claim 39, further comprising transmitting the generated data xFake to a classical computing component for additional processing.
42. The method of claim 39, further comprising transmitting the generated data xFake to a classical discriminator executed by a classical computing component for additional processing.
43. The method of claim 39, further comprising transmitting the generated data xFake to a neural network executed by a classical computing component for additional processing.
44. The method of claim 39, further comprising functionality for applying a measurement decoding scheme to a value stored by at least one of the n qubits, wherein applying the measurement decoding scheme modifies the physical state of the measured qubit.
45. The method of claim 39, further comprising modifying a physical state of at least one qubit in the register of n qubits to put the at least one qubit into the input quantum state in accordance with the result of applying an encoding scheme to the real value.
46. The method of claim 39, further comprising, at a second quantum encoding circuit: receiving the real value x, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the real value x as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
47. The method of claim 39, further comprising, a second quantum encoding circuit: receiving the real value x, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the real value x as a quantum state output, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
48. The method of claim 39, further comprising, at a second quantum encoding circuit: receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying a variational encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
49. The method of claim 39, further comprising, at a second quantum encoding circuit: receiving data xFake from the quantum generator circuit, applying an amplitude encoding algorithm to encode the received data xFake into a quantum output state, and transmitting the quantum output state to a quantum discriminator.
50. The device of claim 39, further comprising, at a quantum discriminator: receiving at least one quantum output state from a second quantum encoding circuit, and measuring an observable in the received at least one quantum output state.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein measuring the observable comprises measuring a designated qubit.
52. The method of claim 51, further comprising: applying a measurement scheme to measure the designated qubit, wherein applying the measurement scheme to measure the designated qubit modifies a physical state of the measured designated qubit.
53. The method of claim 50, further comprising: identifying a probability that the quantum output state belongs to the received classical distribution based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
54. The method of claim 50, further comprising: identifying a probability that the received at least one quantum output state belongs to the received data xFake based on the measurement of the designated qubit.
55. The method of claim 50, further comprising: evaluating a cost function representing a level of difference between the received input from the classical distribution and the received data xFake.
56. The method of claim 50, further comprising: generating an optimized cost function representing a level of difference between the received input from the classical distribution and the received data xFake, wherein the received input further comprises a plurality of data points and the received data further comprises a plurality of data points.
57. The method of claim 50, further comprising: applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state.
58. The device of claim 50, further comprising: applying amplitude encoding to the received at least one quantum output state.
59. The method of claim 39, wherein the device further comprises a classical computing component implementing a von Neumann architecture, and wherein the method further comprises: at a second quantum encoding circuit, receiving the real value z, applying an encoding algorithm to encode the real value z as a quantum state output; and at a quantum discriminator: receiving the quantum output state from the second quantum encoding circuit, applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state, and measuring a designated qubit in the received at least one quantum output state to determine whether the quantum output state belongs to the classical distribution or to the received data xFake.
60. The method of claim 39, wherein the device further comprises a classical computing component implementing a von Neumann architecture, and wherein the method further comprises: at a second quantum encoding circuit: receiving a value from the data xFake, and applying an encoding algorithm to encode the received value as a quantum state output; and at a quantum discriminator: receiving the quantum output state from the second quantum encoding circuit, applying a variational circuit to the received at least one quantum output state, and measuring a designated qubit in the received at least one quantum output state to determine whether the quantum output state belongs to the classical distribution or to the data xFake.
61. The method of claim 39, further comprising: transmitting, to the classical discriminator of a classical computing component implementing a von Neumann architecture, xFake.
</claims>
</document>
