<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/055,G01R33/54,G01R33/56,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONEVA, MARIYA, IVANOVA
AMTHOR, THOMAS, ERIK
MEINEKE, JAN JAKOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61750018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Anomaly Detection Using Magnetic Resonance Fingerprinting
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides for a medical imaging system comprising: a memory for storing machine executable instructions; a processor for controlling the medical instrument. Execution of the machine executable instructions causes the processor to: receive MRF magnetic resonance data acquired according to an MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol of a region of interest; reconstruct an MRF vector for each voxel of a set of voxels descriptive of the region of interest using the MRF magnetic resonance data according to the MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol; calculate a preprocessed MRF vector (126) for each of the set of voxels by applying a predetermined preprocessing routine to the MRF vector for each voxel, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises normalizing the preprocessed MRF vector for each voxel; calculate an outlier map for the set of voxels by assigning an outlier score to the preprocessed MRF vector using a machine learning algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical imaging system comprising: a memory for storing machine executable instructions; a processor for controlling the medical instrument, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions causes the processor to: receive MRF magnetic resonance data acquired according to an MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol of a region of interest; reconstruct an MRF vector for each voxel of a set of voxels descriptive of the region of interest using the MRF magnetic resonance data according to the MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol; calculate a preprocessed MRF vector for each of the set of voxels by applying a predetermined preprocessing routine to the MRF vector for each voxel, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises normalizing the preprocessed MRF vector for each voxel; and calculate an outlier map for the set of voxels by assigning an outlier score to the preprocessed MRF vector using a machine learning algorithm.
2. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein the medical imaging system further comprises a magnetic resonance imaging system, wherein the memory further comprises MRF pulse sequence commands configured for controlling the magnetic resonance imaging system to acquire the MRF magnetic resonance data from the region of interest, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions cause the processor to control the magnetic resonance imaging system to acquire the MRF magnetic resonance data.
3. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions further causes the processor to receive a segmentation of the set of voxels, wherein the segmentation identifies a voxel type for each of the set of voxels, and wherein the outlier score is at least partially assigned by using the voxel type as an input to the machine learning algorithm.
4. The medical imaging system of claim 3, wherein the voxel type is any one of the following: an anatomical location derived from an annotated anatomical atlas, a tissue type, an organ type, a global voxel, and combinations thereof
5. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions further causes the processor to reconstruct a magnetic resonance image according to any one of the following: reconstruct the magnetic resonance image from the MRF vector for each voxel using a magnetic resonance fingerprinting dictionary; and reconstruct the magnetic resonance image from imaging magnetic resonance data wherein the imaging magnetic resonance data is descriptive of the region of interest.
6. The medical imaging system of claim 5, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions further causes the processor to: identify anomalous voxels by thresholding the outlier map; and render a medical image comprising the magnetic resonance image, and wherein the anomalous voxels are marked in the medical image.
7. The medical imaging system of claim 6, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions further causes the processor to train the machine learning algorithm by: receiving training MRF magnetic resonance data acquired according to an MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol of a training region of interest; reconstructing a training MRF vector for each voxel of a set of training voxels descriptive of the training region of interest using the training MRF magnetic resonance data according to the MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol; calculate a training preprocessed MRF vector for each of the training set of voxels by applying the predetermined preprocessing routine to the MRF vector for each voxel; and train the machine learning algorithm using the training preprocessed MRF vector.
8. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises reducing the dimensionality of the MRF vector for each voxel.
9. The medical imaging system of claim 8, wherein reducing the dimensionality of the MRF vector for each voxel comprises any one of the following: applying a Fourier transform to the MRF vector and truncating the Fourier transformed MRF vector above a predetermined frequency value; condensing the MRF vector using a principal components analysis algorithm; and calculating multiple relaxation times using an MRF dictionary.
10. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises any one of the following: applying a mask to remove chosen voxels from the set of voxels; deleting the chosen voxels from the set of voxels if the MRF vector is below a predetermined amplitude or a predetermined measure; and combinations thereof.
11. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein the trained machine learning algorithm is an outlier detection algorithm.
12. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning algorithm is any one of the following: an Isolation Forest algorithm, a k Nearest Neighbors algorithm, and a one-class support vector machine algorithm.
13. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein predetermined preprocessing routine comprises: calculating a spatially averaged MRF vector for a predetermined region surrounding each of the set of voxels; appending the spatially averaged MRF vector to the preprocessed MRF vector before calculating the outlier map.
14. The medical imaging system of claim 1, wherein predetermined preprocessing routine comprises: calculating a spatial gradient MRF vector for each of the set of voxels; and appending the spatially gradient MRF vector to the preprocessed MRF vector before calculating the outlier map.
15. A computer program product comprising machine executable instructions stored on a non-transitory computer readable medium for execution by a processor, wherein execution of the machine executable instructions causes the processor to: receive MRF magnetic resonance data acquired according to an MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol of a region of interest; reconstruct an MRF vector for each voxel of a set of voxels descriptive of the region of interest using the MRF magnetic resonance data according to the MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol; calculate a preprocessed MRF vector for each of the set of voxels by applying a predetermined preprocessing routine to the MRF vector for each voxel, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises normalizing the preprocessed MRF vector for each voxel; calculate an outlier map for the set of voxels by assigning an outlier score to the preprocessed MRF vector using a machine learning algorithm.
16. A method of operating a medical imaging system, wherein the method comprises: receiving MRF magnetic resonance data acquired according to an MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol of a region of interest; reconstructing an MRF vector for each voxel of a set of voxels descriptive of the region of interest using the MRF magnetic resonance data according to the MRF magnetic resonance imaging protocol; calculating a preprocessed MRF vector for each of the set of voxels by applying a predetermined preprocessing routine to the MRF vector for each voxel, wherein the predetermined preprocessing routine comprises normalizing the preprocessed MRF vector for each voxel; calculating an outlier map for the set of voxels by assigning an outlier score to the preprocessed MRF vector using a machine learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
