<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/12,G05B13/02,G05B13/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Alsadah, Wed Hussain
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70779876
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ONLINE SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FOR DATA RELIABILITY ENHANCEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A system, a method, and a computer program for monitoring or controlling a field instrument in a pipeline, including receiving a plurality of process readings which originated from a plurality of remote terminal units that are distributed along a portion of the pipeline, analyzing the received plurality of process readings to determine a plurality of influencing process readings and a target process reading, assessing whether the target process reading includes bad data, and generating an estimated process reading or updating a parameter of a system model based on the plurality of influencing process readings and based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring or controlling a field instrument in a pipeline, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of process readings which originated from a plurality of remote terminal units that are distributed along a portion of the pipeline; analyzing the received plurality of process readings to determine a plurality of influencing process readings and a target process reading; assessing whether the target process reading includes bad data; and generating an estimated process reading or updating a parameter of a system model based on the plurality of influencing process readings and based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
2. The method in claim 1, further comprising: switching between a learning mode and an estimation mode based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
3. The method in claim 1, wherein the influencing process readings originated at a plurality of influencing remote terminal units located upstream or downstream of a target remote terminal unit.
4. The method in claim 1, wherein the influencing process readings originated at a plurality of influencing remote terminal units located upstream and downstream of a target remote terminal unit.
5. The method in claim 3, wherein assessing whether the target process reading includes bad data comprises determining whether a communication link to the target remote terminal unit is broken or the received target process reading includes a damaged, faulty, or null data packet.
6. The method in claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the estimated process reading to a human machine interface that renders the plurality of influencing process readings and the estimated process reading on a display device, wherein the target process reading is replaced by the estimated process reading when the target process reading includes bad data.
7. The method in claim 1, wherein assessing whether the target process reading includes bad data comprises determining the target process reading includes good data.
8. The method in claim 7, further comprising: correlating the influence process readings with the target process reading to determine correlated influence process readings.
9. The method in claim 8, further comprising: discarding uncorrelated influence process readings.
10. The method in claim 8, further comprising: updating the parameter of the system model based on the correlated influence process readings and the target process reading.
11. The method in claim 6, wherein the human machine interface generates a control signal that is transmitted to a field instrument in the pipeline to adjust an attribute in the pipeline.
12. A system for monitoring or controlling a plurality of field instruments in a pipeline, the system comprising: an online system identification server that receives a plurality of process readings that originated from a plurality of remote terminal units distributed along a portion of the pipeline and transmits an estimated process reading to a human machine interface, wherein the online system identification server: analyzes the received plurality of process readings to determine a plurality of influencing process readings and a target process reading; assesses whether the target process reading includes bad data; and generates an estimated process reading or updates a parameter of a system model based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
13. The system in claim 12, wherein the online system identification server switches between a learning mode and an estimation mode based whether the target process reading includes bad data.
14. The system in claim 12, wherein the influencing process readings originated at a plurality of influencing remote terminal units located upstream or downstream of a target remote terminal unit.
15. The system in claim 12, wherein the target process reading is assessed to include bad data when the target process reading includes a damaged, faulty, or null data packet.
16. The system in claim 12, wherein the online system identification server correlates the influence process readings with the target process reading to determine correlated influence process readings.
17. The system in claim 13, wherein the online system identification server comprises: a correlation analyzer that correlates the influence process readings to the target process reading; and a system modeler that updates the parameter of the system model in the learning mode and stops updating the parameter in the system model in the estimation mode.
18. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing monitoring or controlling program instructions for causing a field instrument in a pipeline to be monitored or controlled, the program instructions comprising the steps of: receiving a plurality of process readings that originated from a plurality of remote terminal units that are distributed along a portion of the pipeline; analyzing the received plurality of process readings to determine a plurality of influencing process readings and a target process reading; assessing whether the target process reading includes bad data; and generating an estimated process reading or updating a parameter of a system model based on the plurality of influencing process readings and based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium in claim 18, the program instructions comprising a further step of: switching between a learning mode and an estimation mode based on whether the target process reading includes bad data.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium in claim 18, the program instructions comprising a further step of: transmitting the estimated process reading to a human machine interface that renders the plurality of influencing process readings and the estimated process reading on a display device, wherein the target process reading is replaced by the estimated process reading when the target process reading includes bad data.
</claims>
</document>
