<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03G3/30,H04R1/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAJIC, VLADAN
IYENGAR, VASU
SAUX, TOM-DAVY W.
VERMA, TONY S.
Chen, Tyrone T.
Woodruff, John
Greenwood, Andrew E.
Mazur, Jakub
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551638
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AMBIENT SOUND ENHANCEMENT BASED ON HEARING PROFILE AND ACOUSTIC NOISE CANCELLATION
</title>

<abstract>
An audio system has an ambient sound enhancement function, in which an against-the-ear audio device having a speaker converts a digitally processed version of an input audio signal into sound. The input audio signal may be amplified where the amplification may be in accordance with a stored hearing profile of the user (personalized ambient sound enhancement.) The audio system also has an acoustic noise cancellation (ANC) function that may be combined in various ways with the sound enhancement function, and that may be responsive to voice activity detection. Other aspects are also described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatic sound enhancement by an against the ear audio device, the method comprising: a) reproducing ambient sound by an against the ear audio device, wherein the ambient sound is in an acoustic environment of a user who is wearing the against the ear audio device, and wherein the ambient sound is filtered in accordance with a frequency dependent gain; b) while reproducing the ambient sound in a), detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud; c) in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud, reducing the frequency dependent gain in accordance with a hearing profile of the user; and d) reproducing the ambient sound, by the against the ear audio device, as filtered in accordance with the reduced frequency dependent gain.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the against the ear audio device produces anti-noise for acoustic noise cancellation, the method further comprising: producing anti-noise by the against the ear audio device during a); and in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud, raising a level of the produced anti-noise during d).
3. The method of claim 2 wherein while the ambient sound is loud, dynamic range of a combination of the reproduced ambient sound and the anti-noise becomes smaller when the anti-noise starts or when the level of existing anti-noise is raised.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein changes in the level of the anti-noise are performed no faster than once per second.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein changes in how the ambient sound is reproduced, from a) to d), are performed no faster than once per second.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the frequency dependent gain comprises reduced gain in a high frequency band and not in a low frequency band.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein the against-the-ear audio device produces anti-noise for acoustic noise cancellation, the method further comprising raising a level of the produced anti-noise during d), in the low frequency band and not in the high frequency band, in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to load.
8. The method of claim 7 wherein a majority of the anti-noise is in the low frequency band and not in the high frequency band.
9. A method for sound enhancement by an against the ear audio device that can produce anti-noise for acoustic noise cancellation, the method comprising: a) amplifying and reproducing ambient sound by an against the ear audio device in accordance with a hearing profile of a user of the against the ear audio device, wherein the ambient sound is in an acoustic environment of the against the ear audio device; b) while reproducing the ambient sound in a), detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud; and c) in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud, start producing anti-noise, or raising a level of existing anti-noise being produced, by the against the ear audio device.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from loud to quiet, reducing the level of anti-noise being produced by the against the ear audio device.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the anti-noise being produced by the against the ear device is in a low frequency band and not in a high frequency band.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein the anti-noise being produced by the against the ear device is in a low frequency band and not in a high frequency band.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein while the ambient sound is loud, dynamic range of the reproduced ambient sound becomes smaller when the anti-noise starts or when the level of existing anti-noise is raised.
14. An audio headset having acoustic noise cancellation capability, the audio headset comprising: a left headphone speaker; a right headphone speaker; a processor; and memory having stored therein instructions that configure the processor to a) drive the left headphone speaker or the right headphone speaker so as to amplify and reproduce ambient sound in accordance with a hearing profile of a user of the headset, wherein the ambient sound is in an acoustic environment of the headset, b) while the ambient sound is being reproduced according to a), detect that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud, and c) in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from quiet to loud, drive the left headphone speaker or the right headphone speaker to start producing anti-noise, or raise a level of existing anti-noise being produced by the left or right headphone speaker.
15. The audio headset of claim 14 wherein the memory has stored therein further instructions that configure the processor to, in response to detecting that the ambient sound changes from loud to quiet, drive the left headphone speaker or the right headphone speaker to reduce the level of anti-noise being produced.
16. The audio headset of claim 15 wherein the anti-noise being produced is in a low frequency band and not in a high frequency band.
17. The audio headset of claim 14 wherein the anti-noise being produced is in a low frequency band and not in a high frequency band.
18. The audio headset of claim 14 wherein while the ambient sound is loud, dynamic range of the reproduced ambient sound becomes smaller when the anti-noise starts or when the level of existing anti-noise is raised.
19. A method for sound enhancement by an against the ear audio device that can produce anti-noise for acoustic noise cancellation, the method comprising: a) amplifying and reproducing ambient sound by an against the ear audio device in accordance with a hearing profile of a user of the against the ear audio device, wherein the ambient sound is in an acoustic environment of the against the ear audio device and is amplified with more gain in a high frequency band than in a low frequency band; and b) while reproducing the ambient sound in a), producing anti-noise by the against the ear audio device at a greater level in the low frequency band than in the high frequency band.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the against the ear audio device is an audio headset.
</claims>
</document>
