<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/34,G06F16/35,G06F16/901,G06F16/906,G06F21/45,G06F21/57,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SailPoint Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
HO, JOSTINE FEI
BADAWY, MOHAMED M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67069673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PEER GROUP DETECTION, VISUALIZATION AND ANALYSIS IN IDENTITY MANAGEMENT ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS USING CLUSTER BASED ANALYSIS OF NETWORK IDENTITY GRAPHS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for graph based artificial intelligence systems for identity management systems are disclosed. Embodiments of the identity management systems disclosed herein may utilize a network graph approach to peer grouping of identities of distributed networked enterprise computing environment. Specifically, in certain embodiments, data on the identities and the respective entitlements assigned to each identity as utilized in an enterprise computer environment may be obtained by an identity management system. A network identity graph may be constructed using the identity and entitlement data. The identity graph can then be clustered into peer groups of identities. The peer groups of identities may be used by the identity management system and users thereof in risk assessment or other identity management tasks.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An identity management system, comprising: a memory; a processor; a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium including computer instructions for: presenting a peer group interface; presenting a peer group determined from an identity graph through the peer group interface, wherein the identity graph was created from identity management data, the identity management data utilized in identity management in a distributed enterprise computing environment and comprising data on a first set of identities and a first set of entitlements associated with the first set of identities, wherein the identity graph includes: a node for each of the first set of identities, and an edge between a first node and a second node for each first identity and second identity that share at least one entitlement of the first set of entitlements, wherein the first node and the second node respectively represent the first identity and the second identity and where the edge has a weight based on the at least one shared entitlement between the first identity and the second identity; and wherein the peer group was determined by: pruning a first set of edges of the identity graph based on each weight associated with each of the first set of edges; and clustering a second set of identities associated with a second set of entitlements represented in the pruned identity graph into the peer group based on the second set of entitlements, the peer group including a set of nodes of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of identities associated with a second set of edges of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of entitlements.
2. The identity management system of claim 1, wherein the peer group interface presents a graphical depiction of the peer group determined from the identity graph.
3. The identity management system of claim 2, wherein a size of the graphical depiction of the peer group is based on a number of the second set of identities.
4. The identity management system of claim 1, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a cause of the clustering of the second set of identities into the peer group.
5. The identity management system of claim 1, wherein the peer group interface presents an outlier of the second set of identities or second set of entitlements relative to the peer group.
6. The identity management system of claim 1, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a distribution of the second set of entitlements or the second set of identities within the peer group.
7. The identity management system of claim 6, wherein the distribution is associated with a department, job title or location.
8. A method, comprising: presenting a peer group interface; presenting a peer group determined from an identity graph through the peer group interface, wherein the identity graph was created from identity management data, the identity management data utilized in identity management in a distributed enterprise computing environment and comprising data on a first set of identities and a first set of entitlements associated with the first set of identities, wherein the identity graph includes: a node for each of the first set of identities, and an edge between a first node and a second node for each first identity and second identity that share at least one entitlement of the first set of entitlements, wherein the first node and the second node respectively represent the first identity and the second identity and where the edge has a weight based on the at least one shared entitlement between the first identity and the second identity; and wherein the peer group was determined by: pruning a first set of edges of the identity graph based on each weight associated with each of the first set of edges; and clustering a second set of identities associated with a second set of entitlements represented in the pruned identity graph into the peer group based on the second set of entitlements, the peer group including a set of nodes of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of identities associated with a second set of edges of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of entitlements.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the peer group interface presents a graphical depiction of the peer group determined from the identity graph.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a size of the graphical depiction of the peer group is based on a number of the second set of identities.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a cause of the clustering of the second set of identities into the peer group.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the peer group interface presents an outlier of the second set of identities or second set of entitlements relative to the peer group.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a distribution of the second set of entitlements or the second set of identities within the peer group.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the distribution is associated with a department, job title or location.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising instructions for: presenting a peer group interface; presenting a peer group determined from an identity graph through the peer group interface, wherein the identity graph was created from identity management data, the identity management data utilized in identity management in a distributed enterprise computing environment and comprising data on a first set of identities and a first set of entitlements associated with the first set of identities, wherein the identity graph includes: a node for each of the first set of identities, and an edge between a first node and a second node for each first identity and second identity that share at least one entitlement of the first set of entitlements, wherein the first node and the second node respectively represent the first identity and the second identity and where the edge has a weight based on the at least one shared entitlement between the first identity and the second identity; and wherein the peer group was determined by: pruning a first set of edges of the identity graph based on each weight associated with each of the first set of edges; and clustering a second set of identities associated with a second set of entitlements represented in the pruned identity graph into the peer group based on the second set of entitlements, the peer group including a set of nodes of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of identities associated with a second set of edges of the pruned identity graph representing the second set of entitlements.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the peer group interface presents a graphical depiction of the peer group determined from the identity graph.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein a size of the graphical depiction of the peer group is based on a number of the second set of identities.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a cause of the clustering of the second set of identities into the peer group.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the peer group interface presents an outlier of the second set of identities or second set of entitlements relative to the peer group.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the peer group interface presents data on a distribution of the second set of entitlements or the second set of identities within the peer group.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the distribution is associated with a department, job title or location.
</claims>
</document>
