<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/34,G06K9/62,G06N3/08,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KYOCERA DOCUMENT SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SU, DONGPEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663075
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Optical Character Recognition Training Data Generation for Neural Networks by Parsing Page Description Language Jobs
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus for training and utilizing an artificial neural network (ANN) are provided. A computing device can receive training documents including text. The computing device can parse the training documents to determine training data items. Each training data item can include a training label related to text within the training documents and location information indicating a location of text related to the training label. An ANN can be trained to recognize text using the training data items and training input that includes the training documents. After training the ANN, a request to predict text in application documents that differ from the training documents can be received. The application documents can include second text. A prediction of the second text can be determined by applying the trained ANN to the application documents. After determining the prediction of the second text, information related to the second text can be provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training and utilizing an artificial neural network (ANN), the method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, training documents comprising text; parsing the training documents to determine a plurality of training data items using the computing device, each training data item of the plurality of training data items comprising a training label related to text within the training documents and location information indicating a location of text within the training documents that is related to the training label; training an ANN to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items and training input, the training input comprising the training documents; after training the ANN, receiving a request to predict text in application documents that differ from the training documents, the application documents comprising second text; determining, by applying the trained ANN to the application documents, a prediction of the second text; and after determining the prediction of the second text, providing information related to the second text as output.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the training documents is specified using a page description language (PDL), and wherein parsing the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items comprises parsing the PDL for the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein parsing the PDL for the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items comprises parsing the PDL for the training documents to determine location information that includes a bounding box indicating a location of the text within the training documents related to the training label.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein training the ANN to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items and the training input comprises: generating an electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents; determining, by applying the trained ANN to the training documents, a prediction of the text of the training documents; and determining accuracy of the prediction of the text of the training documents based on the plurality of training data items.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the accuracy of the prediction of the text of the training documents based on the plurality of training data items comprises: determining a first training data item of the plurality of training data items, the first training data item comprising a first training label related to first text within the training documents and first location information indicating a first location within the training documents of the first text; determining first predicted text at the first location within the prediction of text; and determining the accuracy of the prediction of text of the training documents based on a comparison of the first training label related to the first text to the first predicted text.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the accuracy of the prediction of text of the training documents based on the comparison of the first training label related to the first text to the first predicted text comprises: determining whether the first text matches the first predicted text; and after determining that the first text matches the first predicted text, increasing the accuracy of the prediction of text.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents comprises generating the electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents and one or more data augmentation techniques.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more data augmentation techniques comprise one or more of: a technique to skew at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to rotate at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to introduce noise into at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, and a technique to filter at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein generating the electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents comprises: printing a paper copy of the training documents, and generating the electronic copy of the training documents by scanning the paper copy of the training documents.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein parsing the PDL of the training documents comprises: modifying the PDL of the training documents so that the training documents includes at least one of: text utilizing a plurality of different fonts, text utilizing a plurality of different colors, text utilizing a plurality of different sizes, text utilizing a plurality of different styles, and a plurality of pages utilizing a plurality of background colors.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ANN to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items and training input comprises determining a feature vector based on the training input.
12. A computing device, comprising: one or more processors; and non-transitory data storage storing at least computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to perform tasks comprising: receiving training documents comprising text; parsing the training documents to determine a plurality of training data items, each training data item of the plurality of training data items comprising a training label related to text within the training documents and location information indicating a location of text within the training documents that is related to the training label; training an artificial neural network (ANN) to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items and training input, the training input comprising the training documents; after training the ANN, receiving a request to predict text in application documents that differ from the training documents, the application documents comprising second text; determining, by applying the trained ANN to the application documents, a prediction of the second text; and after determining the prediction of the second text, providing information related to the second text as output.
13. The computing device of claim 12, wherein the training documents is specified using a page description language (PDL), and wherein parsing the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items comprises parsing the PDL for the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items.
14. The computing device of claim 13, wherein parsing the PDL for the training documents to determine the plurality of training data items comprises parsing the PDL the training documents to determine location information that includes a bounding box indicating a location of the text within the training documents related to the training label.
15. The computing device of claim 13, wherein training the ANN to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items comprises: generating an electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents; determining, by applying the trained ANN to the training documents, a prediction of the text of the training documents; and determining accuracy of the prediction of the text of the training documents based on the plurality of training data items.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein determining the accuracy of the prediction of the text of the training documents based on the plurality of training data items comprises: determining a first training data item of the plurality of training data items, the first training data item comprising a first training label related to first text within the training documents and first location information indicating a first location within the training documents of the first text; determining first predicted text at the first location within the prediction of text; and determining the accuracy of the prediction of text of the training documents based on a comparison of the first training label related to the first text to the first predicted text.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein determining the accuracy of the prediction of text in the electronic copy of the training documents based on the comparison of the first training label related to the first text to the first predicted text comprises: determining whether the first text matches the first predicted text; and after determining that the first text matches the first predicted text, increasing the accuracy of the prediction of text.
18. The computing device of claim 15, wherein generating the electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents comprises generating the electronic copy of the training documents using the PDL for the training documents and one or more data augmentation techniques, and wherein the one or more data augmentation techniques comprise one or more of: a technique to skew at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to rotate at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to introduce noise into at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, and a technique to filter at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents.
19. The computing device of claim 18, wherein the one or more data augmentation techniques comprise one or more of: a technique to skew at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to rotate at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, a technique to introduce noise into at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents, and a technique to filter at least part of the electronic copy of the training documents.
20. An article of manufacture comprising non-transitory data storage storing at least computer-readable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to perform tasks comprising: receiving training documents comprising text; parsing the training documents to determine a plurality of training data items, each training data item of the plurality of training data items comprising a training label related to text within the training documents and location information indicating a location of text within the training documents that is related to the training label; training an artificial neural network (ANN) to recognize text in documents using the plurality of training data items and training input, the training input comprising the training documents; after training the ANN, receiving a request to predict text in application documents that differ from the training documents, the application documents comprising second text; determining, by applying the trained ANN to the application documents, a prediction of the second text; and after determining the prediction of the second text, providing information related to the second text as output.
</claims>
</document>
