<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00,G06Q10/02,G06Q30/02,G07B15/00,G07B15/02,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIED PARKER
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROSAS-MAXEMIN, GIANNI
SANDOVAL, III, FRANCISCO B.
MAZZOLA, ROBERT
POYNTER, CALLAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102238
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR WIRELESS DEVICE DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Vehicular movement detection systems and methods are disclosed. One or more computing devices are configured to monitor location data associated with a first user device. It is determined that a first user device enters a geographic area based on the location data. In response to determining that first user device has entered or departed a geographic area, a message is prompted on the first user device using a first software application. The message includes executable instructions that launch a second application the first user device, and cause the first user device to transmit a search request for a listing location with one or more search request parameters automatically generated in response to the executable instructions. A confirmation identifier is received by the first user device, the confirmation identifier being useable for unlocking a secured area.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a non-transitory memory; one or more processors coupled to the non-transitory memory and configured to execute instructions to perform operations comprising: presenting a coded image that is machine-readable but unreadable by a human on a screen of a hardware parking machine stationed within proximity to a parking lot; scanning, using an image capturing component of a wireless mobile device, the coded image presented on the screen of the hardware machine station; using one or more image recognition techniques to decode, via the wireless mobile device, data encoded in the coded image, wherein the data includes parking payment information; processing, using the wireless mobile device, a payment transaction in accordance with the parking payment information; determining that the payment transaction has been completed; responsive to determining that the payment transaction has been completed: transmitting parking confirmation information by the wireless mobile device; and causing the hardware parking machine to make a physical movement, thereby enabling a vehicle to enter or exit the parking lot.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded image identifies at least one of a parking stall number, a price for parking, and a length of time for parking.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the coded image is a matrix barcode.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the matrix barcode is a quick response (QR) code.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein a wireless mobile device is verified before the payment transaction is processed in response to matching, a first identifier within a signal sent by a broadcast device with a second identifier associated with the coded image.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the user-selectable message includes a deep link.
7. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising transmitting a digital coupon to the wireless mobile device.
8. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: scanning, using an image capturing component of a second hardware parking machine, a second coded image presented on the screen of the wireless mobile device; causing the hardware parking machine to make a physical movement, thereby enabling the vehicle to exit the parking lot.
9. A method of wireless device detection, comprising: at a computing device, coupled to database including parameters associated with a plurality of listing locations, the computing device including one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs for execution by one or more processors, which, when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform: presenting a coded image that is machine-readable but unreadable by a human on a screen of a hardware parking machine stationed within proximity to a parking lot; scanning, using an image capturing component of a wireless mobile device, the coded image presented on the screen of the hardware machine station; using one or more image recognition techniques to decode, via the wireless mobile device, data encoded in the coded image, wherein the data includes parking payment information; processing, using the wireless mobile device, a payment transaction in accordance with the parking payment information; determining the payment transaction has been completed; responsive to determining that the payment transaction has been completed: transmitting parking confirmation information by the wireless mobile device; and causing the hardware parking machine to make a physical movement, thereby enabling a vehicle to enter or exit the parking lot.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the coded image identifies at least one of a parking stall number, a price for parking, and a length of time for parking.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the coded image is a matrix barcode.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the matrix barcode is a quick response (QR) code.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein a wireless mobile device is verified before the payment transaction is processed in response to matching, a first identifier within a signal sent by a broadcast device with a second identifier associated with the coded image.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the user-selectable message includes a deep link.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the wireless mobile device is an on-board vehicle computer.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising transmitting a digital coupon to the wireless mobile device.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein further comprising: scanning, using an image capturing component of a second hardware parking machine, a second coded image presented on the screen of the wireless mobile device; causing the hardware parking machine to make a physical movement, thereby enabling the vehicle to exit the parking lot.
18. A system, comprising: a non-transitory memory; one or more processors coupled to the non-transitory memory and configured to execute instructions to perform operations comprising: presenting a coded image that is machine-readable but unreadable by a human on a screen of a hardware parking machine stationed within proximity to a parking lot; scanning, using an image capturing component of a wireless mobile device, the coded image presented on the screen of the hardware machine station; using one or more image recognition techniques to decode, via the wireless mobile device, data encoded in the coded image, wherein the data includes parking payment information; processing, using the wireless mobile device, a payment transaction in accordance with the parking payment information; determining the payment transaction has been completed; responsive to determining that the payment transaction has been completed: transmitting parking confirmation information by the wireless mobile device via short range wireless communication; causing the hardware parking machine to make a physical movement, thereby enabling a vehicle to enter or exit the parking lot.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the short range wireless communication includes one of a visual display of a quick response (QR) code, near field communication (NFC), BLUETOOTH, infrared, radio-frequency identification, and Wi-Fi.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the coded image identifies at least one of a parking stall number, a price for parking, and a length of time for parking.
</claims>
</document>
