<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/25,G06F16/28,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIRBNB
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, ALOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69141060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEATURE TRANSFORMATION AND MISSING VALUES
</title>

<abstract>
A behavior detection module receives a training database and applies a transformation to the attributes that improves the uniformity of the values associated with each attribute. The transformed training database is used to construct a random forest classifier (RFC). The RFC includes a plurality of decision trees and generates a classification label estimate for a data entry with a plurality of attributes. The classification label estimate is determined based on classification estimates from the plurality of decision trees. Each parent node of a decision tree is associated with a condition of a transformed attribute that directs the data entry to a corresponding child node depending on whether the condition is satisfied or not. The data entry is directed through the tree to one out of a set of leaf nodes, and a classification label associated with the leaf node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing an external data entry comprising a set of external values, each external value associated with a corresponding attribute from a set of attributes relating to fraudulent behavior in a web application; accessing a classifier trained using entries of a training database, wherein each entry is associated with a classification label form a set of two or more classification labels, wherein each entry comprises a set of transformed values, each transformed value being associated with a corresponding transformed attribute from a set of transformed attributes; wherein each of the transformed values of a given entry was generated from a transformation and interpolation applied to values associated with an attribute from the set of attributes of that given entry to decluster the values, wherein a majority of the values are clustered by being concentrated within a sub-range of a range of the values, the sub-range range being smaller than the range and constituting a percentage of the range, and wherein the transformed values are declustered by being distributed across a new range, a majority of the transformed values not being within a sub-range of the new range that constitutes the percentage of the new range; applying the transformation to an external value associated with the attribute in the external data entry to generate a transformed external data entry; applying the classifier to the transformed external data entry to generate a classification label estimate configured to indicate whether a user is engaging in fraudulent behavior; and storing the classification label estimate in association with the external data entry in a data store.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transformation is invertible.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein units of the transformed values associated with the transformed attribute are different from units of the values associated with the attribute.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the entries in the training database includes an interpolated value associated with a transformed attribute, wherein the interpolated value is determined based on an interpolation function associated with the interpolation applied to a subset of transformed values associated with the transformed attribute.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein an interpolation function of the interpolation is a median, mode, or weighted average of the subset of transformed values.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein a distance metric between the entry comprising the interpolated value and each entry associated with the subset of transformed values is below a predetermined threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of external values are numerical or categorical.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions configured to be executed by a processor, the instructions, when executed by the processor, causing the processor to perform operations, the instructions comprising instructions to: access an external data entry comprising a set of external values, each external value associated with a corresponding attribute from a set of attributes relating to fraudulent behavior in a web application; access a classifier trained using entries of a training database, wherein each entry is associated with a classification label from a set of two or more classification labels; wherein each entry comprises a set of transformed values, each transformed value being associated with a corresponding transformed attribute from a set of transformed attributes; wherein each of the transformed values of a given entry was generated from a transformation and interpolation applied to values associated with an attribute from the set of attributes of that given entry to decluster the values, wherein a majority of the values are clustered by being concentrated within a sub-range of a range of the values, the sub-range range being smaller than the range and constituting a percentage of the range, and wherein the transformed values are declustered by being distributed across a new range, a majority of the transformed values not being within a sub-range of the new range that constitutes the percentage of the new range; apply the transformation to an external value associated with the attribute in the external data entry to generate a transformed external data entry; apply the classifier to the transformed external data entry to generate to a classification label estimate configured to indicate whether a user is engaging in fraudulent behavior; and store the classification label estimate in association with the external data entry in a data store.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the transformation is invertible.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein units of the transformed values associated with the transformed attribute are different from units of the values associated with the attribute.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein at least one of the entries in the training database includes an interpolated value associated with a transformed attribute, wherein the interpolated value is determined based on an interpolation function associated with the interpolation applied to a subset of transformed values associated with the transformed attribute.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein an interpolation function of the interpolation is a median, mode, or weighted average of the subset of transformed values.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein a distance metric between the entry comprising the interpolated value and each entry associated with the subset of transformed values is below a predetermined threshold.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the set of external values are numerical or categorical.
15. A system comprising: a processor configured to execute instructions; a computer-readable medium containing instructions for execution on the processor, the instructions, when executed, causing the processor to perform steps of: accessing an external data entry comprising a set of external values, each external value associated with a corresponding attribute from a set of attributes relating to fraudulent behavior in a web application; accessing a classifier trained using entries of a training database, wherein each entry is associated with a classification label from a set of two or more classification labels; wherein each entry comprises a set of transformed values, each transformed value being associated with a corresponding transformed attribute from a set of transformed attributes; wherein each of the transformed values of a given entry was generated from a transformation and interpolation applied to values associated with an attribute from the set of attributes of that given entry to decluster the values, wherein a majority of the values are clustered by being concentrated within a sub-range of a range of the values, the sub-range range being smaller than the range and constituting a percentage of the range, and wherein the transformed values are declustered by being distributed across a new range, a majority of the transformed values not being within a sub-range of the new range that constitutes the percentage of the new range; applying the transformation to an external value associated with the attribute in the external data entry to generate a transformed external data entry; applying the classifier to the transformed external data entry to generate a classification label estimate configured to indicate whether a user is engaging in fraudulent behavior; and storing the classification label estimate in association with the external data entry in a data store.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the transformation is invertible.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein units of the transformed values associated with the transformed attribute are different from units of the values associated with the attribute.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the entries in the training database includes an interpolated value associated with a transformed attribute, wherein the interpolated value is determined based on an interpolation function associated with the interpolation applied to a subset of transformed values associated with the transformed attribute.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein an interpolation function of the interpolation is a median, mode, or weighted average of the subset of transformed values.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein a distance metric between the entry comprising the interpolated value and each entry associated with the subset of transformed values is below a predetermined threshold.
</claims>
</document>
