<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUO, JIANGLIANG
LENG, JIABING
LI XU
LIU MINGHAO
WEN, YAWEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64834336
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR INSPECTING BURRS OF ELECTRODE SLICE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provides a method and apparatus for inspecting burrs of an electrode slice. The method may include: acquiring a to-be-inspected electrode slice image; and inputting the to-be-inspected electrode slice image into a pre-trained burr instance segmentation model to obtain inspection result for characterizing whether the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected electrode slice image has burrs and contour of the burrs, where the burr instance segmentation model is used to characterize the corresponding relationship between the electrode slice image and the inspection result and contour information. The method may further include: and outputting, in response to the inspection result for characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected electrode slice image has burrs, prompt information for characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected electrode slice image has burrs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for inspecting a burr of an electrode slice, comprising: acquiring a to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice; inputting the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice into a pre-trained burr instance segmentation model, to obtain an inspection result for characterizing whether the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has a burr and a contour of the burr, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is used to characterize a corresponding relationship between the image of the electrode slice and the inspection result and the contour; and outputting, in response to the inspection result characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr, prompt information for characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: associatively storing the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the method further comprises: sending the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour to a display end; and in response to receiving an annotation on the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice sent by the display end, determining the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice as a sample image, determining the sample image and the annotation as a training sample, and adding the training sample to a preset training sample set to generate a new training sample set.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is updated by the following steps: for a training sample in the new training sample set, training, using a machine learning method, to obtain a new burr instance segmentation model, with the sample image of the training sample as an input and the input annotation on the sample image as a desired output.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
6. An apparatus for inspecting a burr of an electrode slice, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions, the instructions when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: acquiring a to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice; inputting the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice into a pre-trained burr instance segmentation model, to obtain an inspection result for characterizing whether the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has a burr and a contour of the burr, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is used to characterize a corresponding relationship between the image of the electrode slice and the inspection result and the contour; and outputting, in response to the inspection result characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr, prompt information for characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr.
7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: associatively storing the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise: sending the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour to a display end; and determining, in response to receiving an annotation on the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice sent by the display end, the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice as a sample image, determining the sample image and the annotation as a training sample, and adding the training sample to a preset training sample set to generate a new training sample set.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is updated by the following steps: for a training sample in the new training sample set, training, using a machine learning method, to obtain a new burr instance segmentation model, with the sample image of the training sample as an input and the input annotation on the sample image as a desired output.
10. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a computer program, wherein when the program is executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: acquiring a to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice; inputting the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice into a pre-trained burr instance segmentation model, to obtain an inspection result for characterizing whether the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has a burr and a contour of the burr, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is used to characterize a corresponding relationship between the image of the electrode slice and the inspection result and the contour; and outputting, in response to the inspection result characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr, prompt information for characterizing that the electrode slice displayed in the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice has the burr.
12. The medium according to claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: associatively storing the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour.
13. The medium according to claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: sending the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice, the inspection result and the contour to a display end; and in response to receiving an annotation on the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice sent by the display end, determining the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice as a sample image, determining the sample image and the annotation as a training sample, and adding the training sample to a preset training sample set to generate a new training sample set.
14. The medium according to claim 13, wherein the burr instance segmentation model is updated by the following steps: for a training sample in the new training sample set, training, using a machine learning method, to obtain a new burr instance segmentation model, with the sample image of the training sample as an input and the input annotation on the sample image as a desired output.
15. The medium according to claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
16. The method according to claim 2, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
17. The method according to claim 3, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
18. The method according to claim 4, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a target image of the electrode slice; adjusting the size of the target image of the electrode slice to a preset size; and determining the adjusted target image of the electrode slice as the to-be-inspected image of the electrode slice.
</claims>
</document>
