<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01P13/00,G01P15/00,G01S19/01,G06F16/2457,H04L29/08,H04M1/725,H04W4/02,H04W4/029,H04W4/38,H04W4/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
SEDAYAO, JEFF
SHELLER, Micah J.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORRION, BRADLEY WILLIAM
SHELLER, MICAH J.
SEDAYAO, JEFFREY CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59966245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IOT SENSOR FUSION
</title>

<abstract>
Various systems and methods for Internet of Things (IoT) network sensor fusion are provided herein. A system for providing sensor collaboration includes: a sensor command circuit to access first-tier sensor data from a first-tier sensor associated with a user; a risk assessment circuit to use the first-tier sensor data to determine a risk rating, the risk rating representing a potential risk to the user; a user context circuit to determine a user context from the first-tier sensor data, wherein the user context circuit and the sensor command circuit are to selectively access second-tier sensor data from a second-tier sensor based on the user context; and a rule evaluation circuit to access a rule database to identify a rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context, and execute the rule when the rule is identified.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-25. (canceled)
26. A system for providing sensor collaboration, the system comprising: a sensor command circuit to access first-tier sensor data from a first-tier sensor associated with a user; a risk assessment circuit to use the first-tier sensor data to determine a risk rating, the risk rating representing a potential risk to the user; a user context circuit to determine a user context from the first-tier sensor data, wherein the user context circuit and the sensor command circuit are to selectively access second-tier sensor data from a second-tier sensor based on the user context; and a rule evaluation circuit to access a rule database to identify a rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context, and execute the rule when the rule is identified.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the first-tier sensor data comprises biometric data, accelerometer data, or audio data.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the first-tier sensor is incorporated into a user device.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the user device comprises a smartphone.
30. The system of claim 26, wherein to use the first-tier sensor data to determine the risk rating, the risk assessment circuit is to: identify a location of the user; and set the risk rating based on the location.
31. The system of claim 26, further comprising a user interface circuit to present the risk rating to the user.
32. The system of claim 26, wherein to determine the user context from the first-tier sensor data, the user context circuit is to: access geographic positioning data from the first-tier sensor data; and identify a location of the user.
33. The system of claim 26, wherein to determine the user context from the first-tier sensor data, the user context circuit is to: access accelerometer data from the first-tier sensor data; and identify an activity of the user.
34. The system of claim 26, wherein to determine the user context from the first-tier sensor data, the user context circuit is to: access an appointment calendar entry associated with the user; and identify a planned activity of the user.
35. The system of claim 26, wherein to selectively access second-tier sensor data from the second-tier sensor based on the user context, the user context circuit is to: determine that the user context indicates that the user is in distress; determine a resource level of the second-tier sensor; use a cost-benefit analysis to analyze the user context in view of the resource level; and access the second-tier sensor data when the cost-benefit analysis indicates that the benefit outweighs the cost.
36. The system of claim 26, wherein to access the rule database to identify the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context, the rule evaluation circuit is to access a cloud-based rule database to identify the rule.
37. The system of claim 26, wherein to access the rule database to identify the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context, the rule evaluation circuit is to: query the rule database using the risk rating and user context as query parameters, to produce query results; and retrieve the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context from the query results.
38. A method for providing sensor collaboration, the method comprising: accessing first-tier sensor data from a first-tier sensor associated with a user; using the first-tier sensor data to determine a risk rating, the risk rating representing a potential risk to the user; determining a user context from the first-tier sensor data; selectively accessing second-tier sensor data from a second-tier sensor based on the user context; accessing a rule database to identify a rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context; and executing the rule when the rule is identified.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the first-tier sensor data comprises biometric data, accelerometer data, or audio data.
40. The method of claim 38, wherein using the first-tier sensor data to determine the risk rating comprises: identifying a location of the user; and setting the risk rating based on the location.
41. The method of claim 38, wherein the risk rating is a quantitative value.
42. The method of claim 38, further comprising: presenting the risk rating to the user.
43. The method of claim 38, wherein determining the user context from the first-tier sensor data comprises: accessing geographic positioning data from the first-tier sensor data; and identifying a location of the user.
44. The method of claim 38, wherein determining the user context from the first-tier sensor data comprises: accessing accelerometer data from the first-tier sensor data; and identifying an activity of the user.
45. The method of claim 38, wherein determining the user context from the first-tier sensor data comprises: accessing an appointment calendar entry associated with the user; and identifying a planned activity of the user.
46. The method of claim 38, wherein selectively accessing second-tier sensor data from the second-tier sensor based on the user context comprises: determining that the user context indicates that the user is in distress; determining a resource level of the second-tier sensor; using a cost-benefit analysis to analyze the user context in view of the resource level; and accessing the second-tier sensor data when the cost-benefit analysis indicates that the benefit outweighs the cost.
47. The method of claim 38, wherein accessing the rule database to identify the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context comprises accessing a cloud-based rule database to identify the rule.
48. The method of claim 38, wherein accessing the rule database to identify the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context comprises: querying the rule database using the risk rating and user context as query parameters, to produce query results; and retrieving the rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context from the query results.
49. The method of claim 38, wherein executing the rule when the rule is identified comprises, performing at least one operation comprising: recording audio in an environment around the user, recording video in the environment around the user, contacting emergency response personnel, or transmitting a location beacon.
50. At least one machine-readable medium including instructions for providing sensor collaboration, which when executed by a machine, cause the machine to access first-tier sensor data from a first-tier sensor associated with a user; use the first-tier sensor data to determine a risk rating, the risk rating representing a potential risk to the user; determine a user context from the first-tier sensor data; selectively access second-tier sensor data from a second-tier sensor based on the user context; access a rule database to identify a rule corresponding to the risk rating and user context; and execute the rule when the rule is identified.
51. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 50, wherein the instructions to selectively access second-tier sensor data from the second-tier sensor based on the user context comprise instructions to: determine that the user context indicates that the user is in distress; determine a resource level of the second-tier sensor; use a coat-benefit analysis to analyze the user context in view of the resource level; and access the second-tier sensor data when the cost-benefit analysis indicates that the benefit outweighs the cost.
</claims>
</document>
