<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/58,G06F16/9032,G06K9/00,G06N3/04,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, YING
WU, XIANCHAO
MU, HAILONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66631250
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING A RESPONSE IN A SESSION
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides method and apparatus for providing a response to a user in a session. At least one message associated with a first object may be received in the session, the session being between the user and an electronic conversational agent. An image representation of the first object may be obtained. Emotion information of the first object may be determined based at least on the image representation. A response may be generated based at least on the at least one message and the emotion information. The response may be provided to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing a response to a user in a session, comprising: receiving at least one message associated with a first object in the session, the session being between the user and an electronic conversational agent; obtaining an image representation of the first object; determining emotion information of the first object based at least on the image representation; generating a response based at least on the at least one message and the emotion information; and providing the response to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first object is at least one of artworks, cultural relics, science and technology exhibits, and photography works.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining an emotion category of the first object, and the generating the response comprises: determining the emotion category of the first object based at least on the emotion information of the first object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining a domain category of the first object, and the generating the response comprises: determining the domain category of the first object based at least on the emotion information of the first object, fact information of the first object, and knowledge information associated with the first object in a knowledge graph.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the knowledge information associated with the first object is obtained through: identifying, from the knowledge graph, a second object that matches with the first object in a dense vector space; and retrieving attributes of the second object from the knowledge graph as the knowledge information.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining an image representation of a second object corresponding to the first object, and the generating the response comprises: determining similarities between the first object and candidate objects in a knowledge graph based at least on the emotion information; selecting the second object based at least on the similarities; and including the image representation of the second object in the response.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the determining the similarities comprises: calculating similarity scores between the image representation of the first object and image representations of the candidate objects in the knowledge graph based at least on the emotion information.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the determining the similarities comprises: converting the image representation of the first object into a text representation; and calculating similarity scores between the text representation of the first object and text descriptions of the candidate objects in the knowledge graph.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the converting is based at least on the emotion information.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of changing a first face region in the image representation with a second face region in a designated image, and the generating the response comprises: generating an updated image representation through replacing the first face region by the second face region based on a generation-adversarial network (GAN).
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one message further indicates a designated emotion, and the generating the updated image representation is further based on the designated emotion.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one message comprises at least one of text message, image message, voice message and video message.
13. An apparatus for providing a response to a user in a session, comprising: a message receiving module, for receiving at least one message associated with a first object in the session, the session being between the user and an electronic conversational agent; an image representation obtaining module, for obtaining an image representation of the first object; an emotion information determining module, for determining emotion information of the first object based at least on the image representation; a response generating module, for generating a response based at least on the at least one message and the emotion information; and a response providing module, for providing the response to the user.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first object is at least one of artworks, cultural relics, science and technology exhibits, and photography works.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining an emotion category of the first object, and the response generating module is further for: determining the emotion category of the first object based at least on the emotion information of the first object.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining a domain category of the first object, and the response generating module is further for: determining the domain category of the first object based at least on the emotion information of the first object, fact information of the first object, and knowledge information associated with the first object in a knowledge graph.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of obtaining an image representation of a second object corresponding to the first object, and the response generating module is further for: determining similarities between the first object and candidate objects in a knowledge graph based at least on the emotion information; selecting the second object based at least on the similarities; and including the image representation of the second object in the response.
18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one message indicates an intention of changing a first face region in the image representation with a second face region in a designated image, and the response generating module is further for: generating an updated image representation through replacing the first face region by the second face region based on a generation-adversarial network (GAN).
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one message further indicates a designated emotion, and the generating the updated image representation is further based on the designated emotion.
20. An apparatus for providing a response to a user in a session, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to: receive at least one message associated with a first object in the session, the session being between the user and an electronic conversational agent; obtain an image representation of the first object; determine emotion information of the first object based at least on the image representation; generate a response based at least on the at least one message and the emotion information; and provide the response to the user.
</claims>
</document>
