<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/1171,G01G19/44,G06N20/00,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
MOSSOBA, MICHAEL
BENKREIRA, ABDELKADAR M'HAMED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68617571
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING A BODY MASS INDEX OF A USER OF A TRANSACTION DEVICE AND VERIFYING THE USER FOR UTILIZATION OF THE TRANSACTION DEVICE BASED ON THE BODY MASS INDEX
</title>

<abstract>
A device receives sensor data that provides an indication of a height of a user of a transaction device, receives camera data that includes one or more images of the user, and scale data that provides an indication of a weight of the user. The device identifies one or more features associated with the user based on the camera data and processes the sensor data, the scale data, and feature information describing the one or more features, with a machine learning model, to estimate a body mass index of the user. The device determines whether the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct a transaction based on the body mass index and one or more credentials associated with the user and performs one or more actions based on determining whether the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a transaction device and from a scale associated with the transaction device, information indicating a weight of a user of the transaction device; determining, by the transaction device and based on the information indicating the weight of the user, that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct a transaction; and providing, by the transaction device and for display, a user interface that indicates that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transaction device includes the scale.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: estimating a body mass index of the user based on the information indicating the weight of the user, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction based on the body mass index of the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based one or more credentials of the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more credentials include one or more of: a personal identification number (PIN) associated with the user, an account number associated with the user, or a telephone number associated with the user.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a width of the user; and estimating a weight of clothing worn by the user based on the width of the user, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based on the weight of the clothing.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving camera data from a camera associated with the transaction device, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based on the camera data.
8. A transaction device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: receive, from a scale associated with the transaction device, information indicating a weight of a user of the transaction device; determine, based on the information indicating the weight of the user, that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct a transaction; and provide, for display, a user interface that indicates that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction.
9. The transaction device of claim 8, wherein the transaction device includes the scale.
10. The transaction device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: estimate a body mass index of the user based on the information indicating the weight of the user, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction based on the body mass index of the user.
11. The transaction device of claim 8, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based one or more credentials of the user.
12. The transaction device of claim 11, wherein the one or more credentials include one or more of: a personal identification number (PIN) associated with the user, an account number associated with the user, or a telephone number associated with the user.
13. The transaction device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine a width of the user; and estimate a weight of clothing worn by the user based on the width of the user, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based on the weight of the clothing.
14. The transaction device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive camera data from a camera associated with the transaction device, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based on the camera data.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a transaction device, cause the one or more processors to: receive, from a scale associated with the transaction device, information indicating a weight of a user of the transaction device; determine, based on the information indicating the weight of the user, that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct a transaction; and provide, for display, a user interface that indicates that the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the transaction device includes the scale.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: estimate a body mass index of the user based on the information indicating the weight of the user, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction based on the body mass index of the user.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based one or more credentials of the user.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more credentials include one or more of: a personal identification number (PIN) associated with the user, an account number associated with the user, or a telephone number associated with the user.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: receive camera data from a camera associated with the transaction device, wherein the user is verified for utilizing the transaction device to conduct the transaction further based on the camera data.
</claims>
</document>
