<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,H04L29/08,H04M1/725,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KEOHANE, SUSANN M.
MCBREARTY, GERALD F.
MURILLO, JESSICA C.
SHIEH, JOHNNY M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945378
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALIZED MANAGEMENT OF INCOMING COMMUNICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer system, and a computer program product for managing at least one notification received on a user mobile device is provided. The present invention may include determining a user state associated with a user. The present invention may also include determining at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein the at least one personal preference setting was previously provided. The present invention may then include receiving, on the user mobile device, the at least one notification. The present invention may also include analyzing the received at least one notification. The present invention may further include determining whether the user will accept at least one notification from the user mobile device based on the determined at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing at least one notification received on a user mobile device, the method comprising: determining a user state associated with a user; determining at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein the at least one personal preference setting was previously provided; receiving, on the user mobile device, the at least one notification; analyzing the received at least one notification; determining whether the user will accept the analyzed at least one notification from the user mobile device based on the determined at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein a machine learning model is trained to learn one or more behavior patterns associated with the user based on a set of historical data associated with past notifications of the user and a user decision on the past notifications, wherein one or more recommendations are generated from the machine learning model; and automatically presenting, to a sender of the at least one notification, at least one reply message to the analyzed at least one notification based on the one or more recommendations, the at least one reply message including an indication based on the user state.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining the user would reject the analyzed at least one notification, muting the analyzed at least one notification.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: in response to determining the user would accept the analyzed at least one notification, alerting the user of the analyzed at least one notification.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the user state associated with the user, further comprises: collecting a plurality of real-time data associated with the user by utilizing at least one biometric sensor or at least one wearable device; and analyzing the collected plurality of real-time data associated with the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the received at least one notification, further comprises: identifying a sender of the received at least one notification; and determining a sender location in relation to a current user location.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining whether a context of the received at least one notification is urgent; in response to determining that the context of the received at least one notification is urgent, alerting the user of the received at least one notification.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: in response to determining that the context of the received at least one notification lacks urgency, comparing the previously provided personal preferences settings to determine whether the sender is rated as an important contact; and in response to determining that the sender is an important contact to the user, alerting the user of the received at least one notification.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: in response to determining that the sender is not an important contact to the user, muting the received at least one notification.
9. A computer system for managing at least one notification received on a user mobile device, comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage media, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer-readable tangible storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, wherein the computer system is capable of performing a method comprising: determining a user state associated with a user; determining at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein the at least one personal preference setting was previously provided; receiving, on the user mobile device, the at least one notification; analyzing the received at least one notification; determining whether the user will accept the analyzed at least one notification from the user mobile device based on the determined at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein a machine learning model is trained to learn one or more behavior patterns associated with the user based on a set of historical data associated with past notifications of the user and a user decision on the past notifications, wherein one or more recommendations are generated from the machine learning model; and automatically presenting, to a sender of the at least one notification, at least one reply message to the analyzed at least one notification based on the one or more recommendations, the at least one reply message including an indication based on the user state.
10. The computer system of claim 9, further comprising: in response to determining the user would reject the analyzed at least one notification, muting the analyzed at least one notification.
11. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising: in response to determining the user would accept the analyzed at least one notification, alerting the user of the analyzed at least one notification.
12. The computer system of claim 9, wherein determining the user state associated with the user, further comprises: collecting a plurality of real-time data associated with the user by utilizing at least one biometric sensor or at least one wearable device; and analyzing the collected plurality of real-time data associated with the user.
13. The computer system of claim 9, wherein analyzing the received at least one notification, further comprises: identifying a sender of the received at least one notification; and determining a sender location in relation to a current user location.
14. The computer system of claim 13, further comprising: determining whether a context of the received at least one notification is urgent; in response to determining that the context of the received at least one notification is urgent, alerting the user of the received at least one notification.
15. The computer system of claim 14, further comprising: in response to determining that the context of the received at least one notification lacks urgency, comparing the previously provided personal preferences settings to determine whether the sender is rated as an important contact; and in response to determining that the sender is an important contact to the user, alerting the user of the received at least one notification.
16. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: in response to determining that the sender is not an important contact to the user, muting the received at least one notification.
17. A computer program product for managing at least one notification received on a user mobile device, comprising: one or more computer-readable storage tangible media and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more non-transitory computer readable medium the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: determining a user state associated with a user; determining at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein the at least one personal preference setting was previously provided; receiving, on the user mobile device, the at least one notification; analyzing the received at least one notification; determining whether the user will accept the analyzed at least one notification from the user mobile device based on the determined at least one personal preference setting associated with the determined user state, wherein a machine learning model is trained to learn one or more behavior patterns associated with the user based on a set of historical data associated with past notifications of the user and a user decision on the past notifications, wherein one or more recommendations are generated from the machine learning model; and automatically presenting, to a sender of the at least one notification, at least one reply message to the analyzed at least one notification based on the one or more recommendations, the at least one reply message including an indication based on the user state.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, further comprising: in response to determining the user would reject the analyzed at least one notification, muting the analyzed at least one notification.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, further comprising: in response to determining the user would accept the analyzed at least one notification, alerting the user of the analyzed at least one notification.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein determining the user state associated with the user, further comprises: collecting a plurality of real-time data associated with the user by utilizing at least one biometric sensor or at least one wearable device; and analyzing the collected plurality of real-time data associated with the user.
</claims>
</document>
