<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/04,G01S15/04,G01S17/04,G05B13/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUERKLE, CORNELIUS
OBORIL, FABIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516346
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NON-UNIFORM OCCUPANCY GRID MANAGER
</title>

<abstract>
An occupancy grid manager having a non-uniform occupancy which includes a plurality of cells, configurable in a plurality of cell sizes, each cell representing a region of an environment of a vehicle; and one or more processors, configured to determine one or more context factors; select a cell size for a cell of the plurality of cells based on the one or more context factors; process sensor data provided by one or more sensors; and determine a probability that the cell of the plurality of cells is occupied based on the sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An occupancy grid manager, comprising: an occupancy grid, the occupancy grid comprising: a plurality of cells, configurable in a plurality of cell sizes, each cell representing a region of an environment of a vehicle; and one or more processors, configured to: determine one or more context factors; select a cell size for a cell of the plurality of cells based on the one or more context factors; process sensor data provided by one or more sensors; and determine a probability that the cell of the plurality of cells is occupied based on the sensor data.
2. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to store the probability corresponding to the cell.
3. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the one or more context factors include any one or more of a velocity of the vehicle, an acceleration of the vehicle, a traffic density in a vicinity of the vehicle, or a type of roadway on which the vehicle is traveling.
4. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises at least one of image sensor data, camera data, LIDAR sensor data, Radar sensor data, ultrasound sensor data, map data, position data, or any combination thereof.
5. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the one or more context factors from measurement data; speedometer data, traffic data, roadway data, or any combination thereof.
6. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the one or more context factors from a user-actuated switch.
7. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the occupancy grid is a dynamic occupancy grid.
8. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the occupancy grid further comprises a first cell group containing cells of a first cell size and a first cell density, and a second cell group containing cells of one or more second cell sizes, and one or more second cell densities, wherein the first cell size is different from at least one of the one or more second cell sizes, and wherein the first cell density is different from at least one of the second cell densities.
9. The occupancy grid manager of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to change a cell size of the first cell group based on the one or more context factors.
10. The occupancy grid manager of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to change a cell size of one or more cells of the second cell group to the first cell size.
11. The occupancy grid manager of claim 1, wherein the occupancy grid further comprises a first cell group containing cells of a first cell size and a second cell group containing cells of a second cell size, different from the first cell size, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to change the cell size of the first cell group to the second cell size, and to change the cell size of the second cell group to the first cell size, based on the one or more context factors.
12. One or more non-transitory computer readable media containing instructions which, if executed, are configured to cause one or more processors to: determine one or more context factors; select based on the one or more context factors a cell size for a cell of an occupancy grid comprising a plurality of cells, each cell representing a region of an environment of a vehicle; process sensor data provided by one or more sensors; and determine a probability that the cell of the plurality of cells is occupied based on the sensor data.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 12, wherein the one or more context factors include any one or more of a velocity of the vehicle, an acceleration of the vehicle, a traffic density in a vicinity of the vehicle, or a type of roadway on which the vehicle is traveling.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 12, wherein the sensor data comprises at least one of image sensor data, camera data, LIDAR sensor data, Radar sensor data, ultrasound sensor data, map data, position data, or any combination thereof.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 12, wherein the occupancy grid further comprises a first cell group containing cells of a first cell size and a first cell density, and a second cell group containing cells of one or more second cell sizes and one or more second cell densities, wherein the first cell size is different from at least one of the one or more second cell sizes and/or wherein the first cell density is different from at least one of the one or more second cell densities.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the one or more processors to change a cell size of the first cell group based on the one or more context factors.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the one or more processors to change a cell size of one or more cells of the second cell group to the first cell size.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of occupancy grid management of claim 12, wherein the occupancy grid further comprises a first cell group containing cells of a first cell size and a second cell group containing cells of a second cell size, different from the first cell size, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to change the cell size of the first cell group to the second cell size, and to change the cell size of the second cell group to the first cell size, based on the one or more context factors.
19. A means for occupancy grid management, including: an occupancy grid, the occupancy grid including: a plurality of cells, configurable in a plurality of cell sizes, each cell for representing a region of an environment of a vehicle; and one or more processors, for: determining one or more context factors; selecting a cell size for a cell of the plurality of cells based on the one or more context factors; analyzing sensor data provided by one or more sensors; and determining a probability that the cell of the plurality of cells is occupied based on the sensor data.
20. The means for occupancy grid management of any claim 19, wherein the occupancy grid further includes a first cell group containing cells of a first cell size and a second cell group containing cells of a second cell size, different from the first cell size, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to change the cell size of the first cell group to the second cell size, and to change the cell size of the second cell group to the first cell size, based on the one or more context factors.
</claims>
</document>
