<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/343,H04N5/347,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
ITANO, TETSUYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHOTOELECTRIC CONVERSION DEVICE, CAMERA, MOVABLE OBJECT, AND SIGNAL PROCESSING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A photoelectric conversion device of an embodiment includes a plurality of pixels, a signal processing circuit, and a switch unit. The signal processing circuit performs analog-to-digital conversion on signals output from the plurality of pixels. The switch unit performs switching between a first mode for motion detection to input a first signal generated by adding signals of at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit and a second mode to input respective signals of the at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit individually as second signals. A first period from start to end of a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process the first signal is shorter than a second period from start to end of a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A photoelectric conversion device comprising: a plurality of pixels; a signal processing circuit that performs analog-to-digital conversion on signals output from the plurality of pixels; and a switch unit that performs switching between a first mode for motion detection to input a first signal generated by adding signals of at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit and a second mode to input respective signals of the at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit individually as second signals, wherein a first period from start to end of a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process the first signal is shorter than a second period from start to end of a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals.
2. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein in the first mode, a control signal for controlling the plurality of pixels or the signal processing circuit includes a pulse signal of a first pulse width, and wherein in the second mode, the control signal includes a pulse signal of a second pulse width that is longer than the first pulse width.
3. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein in the first mode, the signal processing circuit performs analog-to-digital conversion based on a clock signal of a first frequency, and wherein in the second mode, the signal processing circuit performs analog-to-digital conversion based on a clock signal of a second frequency that is lower than the first frequency.
4. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein in the first mode, the readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process the first signal includes a first number of times of the analog-to-digital conversion, and wherein in the second mode, the readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals includes a second number of times, which is greater than the first number of times, of the analog-to-digital conversion.
5. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 4, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion and a reset unit that resets the input node, wherein in the first mode, any of the at least two pixels outputs the first signal in a state where a signal based on charge generated by the photoelectric conversion is input to the input node, wherein in the second mode, each of the at least two pixels outputs a reset level signal in a state where the input node is reset and further outputs the second signals in a state where the signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion is input to the input node, and wherein in the second mode, the readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals includes analog-to-digital conversion on the reset level signal and analog-to-digital conversion on the second signals.
6. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixels are arranged to form a plurality of columns, wherein the signal processing circuit includes a plurality of column circuits each including an analog-to-digital converter, wherein in the first mode, the first signal is input to at least one of the plurality of column circuits, and wherein in the second mode, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to two column circuits of the plurality of column circuits.
7. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 6 further comprising a plurality of output lines corresponding to the plurality of columns, wherein the switch unit includes a first switch element that connects two of the plurality of output lines to each other, wherein the first signal is generated by the first switch element being in an on-state, and wherein when the first switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the two column circuits.
8. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion, wherein the switch unit includes a second switch element that connects the input nodes of the at least two pixels to each other, wherein the first signal is generated by the second switch element being in an on-state, and wherein when the second switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the signal processing circuits.
9. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixels include input nodes that receive signals based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion, respectively, wherein the plurality of pixels are arranged to form a plurality of columns, wherein the signal processing circuit includes a plurality of column circuits each including an analog-to-digital converter, wherein the switch unit includes a first switch element that connects two of the plurality of output lines to each other and a second switch element that connects the input nodes of the at least two pixels to each other, wherein in the first mode, the first signal is generated and input to at least one of the plurality of column circuits by both the first switch element and the second switch element being in an on-state, and wherein in the second mode, when the first switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the signal processing circuit.
10. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1 further comprising a control unit that acquires a difference between a first image and a second image obtained in the first mode and, in response to detection of the difference being greater than a threshold value, switches the first mode to the second mode.
11. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1 further comprising a control unit that acquires a difference from a previous image for each of a plurality of images obtained in the first mode and, in response to a fact that the consecutive number of times of detecting that the difference is less than a threshold value reaches a predetermined value, switches the first mode to the second mode.
12. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion and a reset unit that resets the input node, and wherein a period from release of reset of the pixels to analog-to-digital conversion on a reset level signal in the first mode is shorter than a period from release of reset of the pixels to analog-to-digital conversion on a reset level signal in the second mode.
13. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion and a transfer transistor that transfers the charge to the input node, and wherein a period in which the transfer transistor is in an on-state in the first mode is shorter than a period in which the transfer transistor is in an on-state in the second mode.
14. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion and a transfer transistor that transfers the charge to the input node, and wherein a period from a time when the transfer transistor that is turned on for transfer of the charge is turned off to a time when analog-to-digital conversion on the first signal is started in the first mode is shorter than a period from a time when the transfer transistor that is turned on for transfer of the charge is turned off to a time when analog-to-digital conversion on the second signal is started in the second mode.
15. A photoelectric conversion device comprising: a plurality of pixels; a signal processing circuit that performs analog-to-digital conversion on signals output from the plurality of pixels; and a switch unit that performs switching between a first mode to input a first signal generated by adding signals of at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit and a second mode to input respective signals of the at least two pixels to the signal processing circuit individually as second signals, wherein in the first mode, a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process the first signal includes a first number of times of the analog-to-digital conversion, and wherein in the second mode, a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals includes a second number of times, which is greater than the first number of times, of the analog-to-digital conversion.
16. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input node that receives a signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion and a reset unit that resets the input node, wherein in the first mode, any of the at least two pixels outputs the first signal in a state where a signal based on charge generated by the photoelectric conversion is input to the input node, wherein in the second mode, each of the at least two pixels outputs a reset level signal in a state where the input node is reset and further outputs the second signals in a state where the signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion is input to the input node, and wherein in the second mode, the readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals includes analog-to-digital conversion on the reset level signal and analog-to-digital conversion on the second signals.
17. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein in the first mode, a control signal for controlling the plurality of pixels or the signal processing circuit includes a pulse signal of a first pulse width, and wherein in the second mode, the control signal includes a pulse signal of a second pulse width that is longer than the first pulse width.
18. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein in the first mode, the signal processing circuit performs analog-to-digital conversion based on a clock signal of a first frequency, and wherein in the second mode, the signal processing circuit performs analog-to-digital conversion based on a clock signal of a second frequency that is lower than the first frequency.
19. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of pixels are arranged to form a plurality of columns, wherein the signal processing circuit includes a plurality of column circuits each including an analog-to-digital converter, wherein in the first mode, the first signal is input to at least one of the plurality of column circuits, and wherein in the second mode, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to two column circuits of the plurality of column circuits.
20. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 19 further comprising a plurality of output lines corresponding to the plurality of columns, wherein the switch unit includes a first switch element that connects two of the plurality of output lines to each other, wherein the first signal is generated by the first switch element being in an on-state, and wherein when the first switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the two column circuits.
21. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 20, wherein each of the first number of times and the second number of times is the number of times of analog-to-digital conversion performed by one of the column circuits.
22. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of pixels includes an input nodes that receives signal based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion, wherein the switch unit includes a second switch element that connects the input nodes of the at least two pixels to each other, wherein the first signal is generated by the second switch element being in an on-state, and wherein when the second switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the signal processing circuits.
23. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of pixels include input nodes that receive signals based on charge generated by photoelectric conversion, respectively, wherein the plurality of pixels are arranged to form a plurality of columns, wherein the signal processing circuit includes a plurality of column circuits each including an analog-to-digital converter, wherein the switch unit includes a first switch element that connects two of the plurality of output lines to each other and a second switch element that connects the input nodes of the at least two pixels to each other, wherein in the first mode, the first signal is generated and input to at least one of the plurality of column circuits by both the first switch element and the second switch element being in an on-state, and wherein in the second mode, when the first switch element is in an off-state, the second signals from the at least two pixels are input individually to the signal processing circuit.
24. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15 further comprising a control unit that acquires a difference between a first image and a second image obtained in the first mode and, in response to detection of the difference being greater than a threshold value, switches the first mode to the second mode.
25. The photoelectric conversion device according to claim 15 further comprising a control unit that acquires a difference from a previous image for each of a plurality of images obtained in the first mode and, in response to a fact that the consecutive number of times of detecting that the difference is less than a threshold value reaches a predetermined value, switches the first mode to the second mode.
26. A camera comprising: the photoelectric conversion device according to claim 1; and an optical unit that captures a light from an object onto the photoelectric conversion device.
27. A movable object comprising: the camera according to claim 26; and a control unit that controls the movable object based on an image signal acquired by the camera.
28. A signal processing device comprising a signal processing circuit that performs analog-to-digital conversion on an input signal, wherein the signal processing circuit has a first mode to input a first signal generated by adding at least two signals to the signal processing circuit and a second mode to input respective of the at least two signals to the signal processing circuit individually as second signals, wherein in the first mode, a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process the first signal includes a first number of times of the analog-to-digital conversion, and wherein in the second mode, a readout operation performed by the signal processing circuit in order to process one of the second signals includes a second number of times, which is greater than the first number of times, of the analog-to-digital conversion.
</claims>
</document>
