<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/2458,G06F16/25,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HURT BRETT A.
LOYENS, JON
JACOB, BRYON KRISTEN
REYNOLDS, SHAD WILLIAM
KEEN, ARTHUR ALBERT
BOUTROS, JOSEPH
GRIFFITH, DAVID LEE
ZELENAK, ALEXANDER JOHN
DATA.WORLD
LE, TRIET MINH
</assignee>

<inventors>
HURT BRETT A.
LOYENS, JON
JACOB, BRYON KRISTEN
REYNOLDS, SHAD WILLIAM
KEEN, ARTHUR ALBERT
BOUTROS, JOSEPH
GRIFFITH, DAVID LEE
ZELENAK, ALEXANDER JOHN
LE, TRIET MINH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641191
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COLLABORATIVE DATASET CONSOLIDATION VIA DISTRIBUTED COMPUTER NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments relate generally to data science and data analysis, computer software and systems, and wired and wireless network communications to provide an interface between repositories of disparate datasets and computing machine-based entities that seek access to the datasets, and, more specifically, to a computing and data storage platform that facilitates consolidation of one or more datasets, whereby a collaborative data layer and associated logic facilitate, for example, efficient access to, and implementation of, collaborative datasets. In some examples, a method may include receiving data representing a query into a collaborative dataset consolidation system, identifying datasets relevant to the query, generating one or more queries to access disparate data repositories, and retrieving data representing query results. In some cases, one or more queries are applied (e.g., as a federated query) to atomized datasets stored in one or more atomized data stores, at least two of which may be different.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-12. (canceled)
13. A method comprising: receiving a data file including a dataset into a collaborative dataset consolidation system; formatting the dataset to form a first atomized dataset including atomized data points each including data representing at least two objects and an association between the two objects; forming a second atomized dataset including the first atomized dataset and one or more other atomized datasets; receiving data representing a query into the collaborative dataset consolidation system, the query being associated with an identifier; determining a level of authorization associated with the identifier to access one or more of the first atomized dataset and the one or more other atomized datasets; identifying a subset of the second atomized dataset relevant to the query, wherein portions of the second atomized dataset are disposed in different data repositories; generating a plurality of sub-queries each of which is configured to access at least one of the different data repositories; accessing the different data repositories based on the level of authorization associated with the identifier; and retrieving data representing query results from the at least one of the different data repositories.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the atomized datasets include subsets of linked data points.
15. The method of claim 13 wherein retrieving the data representing the query results from the accessed disparate data comprises: accessing an external repository that is external to the collaborative dataset consolidation system.
16. The method of claim 13 wherein determining the level of authorization associated with the identifier comprises: determining per-dataset authorization, wherein the identifier includes data representing a first user account identifier indicative that data representing a first user account is authorized to access at least one atomized dataset based on the per-dataset authorization.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein forming the second atomized dataset comprises: receiving a request to form the second atomized dataset; determining the request originates from a computing device without the level of authorization associated with the first user account identifier; asserting query-level authorization based on the first user account identifier to provide access from the computing device to the one or more of the first atomized dataset and the one or more other atomized datasets; and forming the second atomized dataset based on the query-level authorization.
18. The method of claim 13 wherein identifying the subset of the second atomized dataset relevant to the query comprises: determining a subset of data attributes associated with the query; and retrieving the second atomized dataset based on data associated with one or more of the data attributes.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein determining the subset of data attributes associated with the query comprises: searching for a derived attribute as at least one of data attributes.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising: analyzing a plurality of atomized datasets associated with the collaborative dataset consolidation system to infer data representing the derived attribute.
21. The method of claim 13 further comprising: receiving data representing another query into the collaborative dataset consolidation system, the another query being associated with another identifier; identifying the subset of the second atomized dataset relevant to the another query; and denying access to one or more of the first atomized dataset and the one or more other atomized datasets to perform the another query if the level of authorization is absent.
22. The method of claim 13 further comprising: receiving data representing another query into the collaborative dataset consolidation system, the another query being associated with another identifier; identifying the subset of the second atomized dataset relevant to the another query; and granting access to one or more of the first atomized dataset and the one or more other atomized datasets to perform the another query if the level of authorization is present, wherein the level of authorization is per-dataset authorization.
23. The method of claim 13 wherein generating the one or more queries comprises: generating a federated query.
24. The method of claim 23 wherein generating the federated query comprises: querying disparate data stores.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein querying the disparate data stores comprises: querying different triplestores.
26. The method of claim 13 wherein generating the plurality of sub-queries comprises: classifying query portions.
27. The method of claim 27 wherein classifying the query portions comprises: identifying a classification type for a portion of the query.
28. The method of claim 13 wherein forming the second atomized dataset comprises: forming a newly-generated dataset.
29. The method of claim 28 further comprising: determining the query is an interaction with the newly-generated dataset; and generating a notification of the query to present in an activity feed portion of a user interface of a computing device.
30. The method of claim 29 further comprising: transmitting the notification of the query to a plurality of computing devices associated with a plurality of users to implement the activity feed as a social network of datasets.
31. An apparatus comprising: a memory including executable instructions; and a processor, responsive to executing the instructions, is configured to: receive a data file including a dataset into a collaborative dataset consolidation system; format the dataset to form a first atomized dataset including atomized data points each including data representing at least two objects and an association between the two objects; form a second atomized dataset including the first atomized dataset and one or more other atomized datasets; receive data representing a query into the collaborative dataset consolidation system, the query being associated with an identifier; determine a level of authorization associated with the identifier to access one or more of the first atomized dataset and the one or more other atomized datasets; identify a subset of the second atomized dataset relevant to the query, wherein portions of the second atomized dataset are disposed in different data repositories; generate a plurality of sub-queries each of which is configured to access at least one of the different data repositories; access the different data repositories based on the level of authorization associated with the identifier; and retrieve data representing query results from the at least one of the different data repositories.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine per-dataset authorization, wherein the identifier includes data representing a first user account identifier indicative that data representing a first user account is authorized to access at least one atomized dataset based on the per-dataset authorization.
</claims>
</document>
