<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/54,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOTAHARI NEZHAD, HAMID REZA
Mahajan, Pravar Dilip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103117
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-Lingual Action Identification
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to an intelligent computer platform to identify and process communications across multiple languages. An originating communication is identified, including identification of language, action tokens, and linguistic features. A first map of the identified action tokens and linguistic features from the originating language to a second format is created and populated into identifying machine learning model (MLM). A second communication is identified, including the originating language, action tokens, and linguistic features, and a second map is created of the identified action tokens and linguistic features of the second communication. The second map and the MLM are leveraged to identify and return a predicted action token class of the identified action tokens in the second communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; an artificial intelligence (AI) platform, in communication with the processing unit, having natural language processing (NLP) tools comprising: a training manager to train an action identification machine learning model (MLM), the training manager operatively coupled to a language manager and a converter, the language manager to identify an originating language of a received first communication, the language manager leverages the identified language and further identifies one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features in the first communication, the converter to create a first map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the originating language to a second format, and the converter to populate the created first map into the action identification MLM; an evaluator to identify a second communication, including, the language manager to identify the originating language of the second communication, the language manager leverages the identified second communication language and further identifies one or more actions tokens and one or more linguistic features in the second communication, the converter to create a second map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the second communication to the second format; an inference manager to predict an action token class of the second communication, the inference manager to submit the trained action identification MLM and the created second map to an inference module populated with patterns of category labels and corresponding action tokens, the inference module to return a predicted action token class of the identified one or more action tokens in the second communication; and an assignment of the predicted action token class to the second communication returned from the inference manager.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising the converter to leverage a universal language parser and convert at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a universal notation.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising the converter to leverage a universal treebank and convert at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a second language.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising the training manager to store the predicted action token class of the second communication and the one or more action tokens of the second communication in the inference module inventory.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the training manager updates the inventory of mapped action tokens and one or more language independent features across two or more languages.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a multi-lingual application program interface (API) to detect the originating language of the first and second communications.
7. A computer program product to identify and process a communication across multiple languages, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a processor to: train an action identification machine learning model (MLM), including: identify an originating language of a received first communication, wherein the identification further includes identifying one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features in the first communication; create a first map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the originating language to a second format; populate the created first map into the action identification MLM; identify a second communication, including: identify the originating language of the second communication, wherein the identification further includes identifying one or more actions tokens and one or more linguistic features in the second communication; and create a second map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the second communication to the second format; predict an action token class of the second communication, including submit the trained action identification MLM and the created second map to an inference module populated with patterns of category labels and corresponding action tokens, the inference module returning a predicted action token class of the identified one or more action tokens in the second communication; and assign the predicted action token class to the second communication.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to leverage a universal language parser and convert at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a universal notation.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising program code to leverage a universal treebank and convert at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a second language.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising program code to store the predicted action token class of the second communication and the one or more action tokens of the second communication in the inference module inventory.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the inventory of mapped action tokens and one or more language independent features is updated across two or more languages.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising a multi-lingual application program interface (API) to detect the originating language of the first and second communications.
13. A method comprising: training an action identification machine learning model (MLM), including: identifying an originating language of a received first communication, wherein the identification further includes identifying one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features in the first communication; creating a first map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the originating language to a second format; and populating the created first map into the action identification MLM; identifying a second communication, including: identifying the originating language of the second communication, wherein the identification further includes identifying one or more actions tokens and one or more linguistic features in the second communication; and creating a second map of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features from the second communication to the second format; predicting an action token class of the second communication, including submitting the trained action identification MLM and the created second map to an inference module populated with patterns of category labels and corresponding action tokens, the inference module returning a predicted action token class of the identified one or more action tokens in the second communication; and assigning the predicted action token class to the second communication.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising leveraging a universal language parser and converting at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a universal notation.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising leveraging a universal treebank and converting at least one of the first and second maps of the identified one or more action tokens and one or more linguistic features of at least one of the first and second communications to a second language.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising storing the predicted action token class of the second communication and the one or more action tokens of the second communication in the inference module inventory.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the inventory of mapped action tokens and one or more language independent features is updated across two or more languages.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising a multi-lingual application program interface (API) to detect the originating language of the first and second communications.
</claims>
</document>
