<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/34,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAKUTEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAE, YEONGNAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68983540
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEARCH SYSTEM, SEARCH METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A search system comprising: a learner that calculates a feature quantity of information that is input and outputs a classification result of the information based on the feature quantity; and at least one processor configured to: store at least one of a feature quantity or a classification result of information to be searched, which has been input in the learner, in a database corresponding to a classification of the information to be searched among a plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications; input input information in the learner; and search for information to be searched that is similar to the input information in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result based on a database corresponding to a classification result of the input information that is output from the learner among the plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A search system comprising: a learner that calculates a feature quantity of information that is input and outputs a classification result of the information based on the feature quantity; and at least one processor configured to: store at least one of a feature quantity or a classification result of information to be searched, which has been input in the learner, in a database corresponding to a classification of the information to be searched among a plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications; input input information in the learner; and search for information to be searched that is similar to the input information in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result based on a database corresponding to a classification result of the input information that is output from the learner among the plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications.
2. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the learner calculates a feature vector as the feature quantity, and the at least one processor performs the search based on a distance between a feature vector of information to be searched, which is stored in a database corresponding to the classification result of the input information, and a feature vector of the input information.
3. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor stores at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of the information to be searched in the database corresponding to the classification result of the information to be searched that is output from the learner.
4. The search system according to claim 3, wherein the learner outputs a probability of each classification as the classification result, the at least one processor stores at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of the information to be searched in a database of a classification having a probability of the information to be searched, which is output from the learner, wherein the probability is equal to or more than a threshold value.
5. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the learner outputs a probability of each classification as the classification result, and the at least one processor performs the search based on a database of a classification having a probability of the input information, which is output from the learner, wherein the probability is equal to or more than a threshold value.
6. The search system according to claim 1, wherein in a case where there are a plurality of databases that correspond to the classification result of the input information, based on each of the plurality of databases, the at least one processor searches for candidates of information to be searched that is similar to the input information in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result, and narrows down the candidates.
7. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor: obtains a similarity based on at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of the input information and at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of the information to be searched, and displays the similarity in association with the information to be searched.
8. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the learner calculates a feature quantity of an image that is input and outputs a classification result of an object included in the image, the information to be searched is an image to be searched, the input information is an input image, and the at least one processor searches for an image to be searched that is similar to the input image in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result.
9. The search system according to claim 8, wherein the learner calculates a feature quantity of an area indicating the object included in the input image and outputs a classification result of the area, and in a case where a plurality of areas overlapping with one another are included in the input image, the learner outputs a classification result of an area having a highest probability based on a feature quantity of the area.
10. The search system according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor stores, in a database, at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of the area indicating the object included in the image to be searched, and in a case where a plurality of areas overlapping with one another are included in the image to be searched, the at least one processor stores at least one of the feature quantity and the classification result of the area having a highest probability of the classification result.
11. The search system according to claim 8, wherein the learner outputs a classification result of an object included in the image that is input and position information about a position of the object, and the at least one processor displays the position information of the image to be searched in association with the image to be searched.
12. The search system according to claim 1, wherein the learner outputs a classification result of an object included in the image that is input and position information about a position of the object, and the at least one processor displays the position information of the input image in association with the input image.
13. The search system according to claim 8, wherein in a case where a plurality of objects are included in the image that is input, the learner calculates a feature quantity and outputs a classification result for each object, each of the input image and the image to be searched includes a plurality of objects, and the at least one processor searches for an image to be searched that is similar to the input image in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result of some of the objects.
14. A search method comprising: storing at least one of a feature quantity or a classification result of information to be searched, which has been input in a learner, in a database corresponding to a classification of the information to be searched among a plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications, the learner calculating a feature quantity of information that is input and outputting a classification result of the information based on the feature quantity; inputting input information in the learner; and searching for information to be searched that is similar to the input information in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result based on a database corresponding to a classification result of the input information that is output from the learner among the plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable information storage medium for storing a program for causing a computer to: store at least one of a feature quantity or a classification result of information to be searched, which has been input in a learner, in a database corresponding to a classification of the information to be searched among a plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications, the learner calculating a feature quantity of information that is input and outputting a classification result of the information based on the feature quantity; input input information in the learner; and search for information to be searched that is similar to the input information in at least one of the feature quantity or the classification result based on a database corresponding to a classification result of the input information that is output from the learner among the plurality of databases prepared for respective classifications.
</claims>
</document>
