<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/27,G06F9/54,G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/18,G06Q50/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE TX PORTFOLIO 2018
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971459
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR USING SOCIAL NETWORK DATA TO VALIDATE A LOAN GUARANTEE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for using social network data to validate a loan guarantee are disclosed. An example system may include a social networking input circuit to interpret a loan guarantee parameter; a social network data collection circuit to collect data using a plurality of algorithms that is configured to monitor social network information about an entity involved in a loan in response to the loan guarantee parameter; and a guarantee validation circuit to validate a guarantee for the loan in response to the monitored social network information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a social networking input circuit structured to interpret a loan guarantee parameter; a social network data collection circuit structured to collect data using a plurality of algorithms that is configured to monitor social network information about an entity involved in a loan in response to the loan guarantee parameter; and a guarantee validation circuit structured to validate a guarantee for the loan in response to the monitored social network information.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the loan guarantee parameter comprises a financial condition of the entity, wherein the entity is a guarantor for the loan.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the guarantee validation circuit is further structured to determine the financial condition based on at least one attribute selected from the attributes consisting of: a publicly stated valuation of the entity, a property owned by the entity as indicated by public records, a valuation of a property owned by the entity, a bankruptcy condition of the entity, a foreclosure status of the entity, a contractual default status of the entity, a regulatory violation status of the entity, a criminal status of the entity, an export controls status of the entity, an embargo status of the entity, a tariff status of the entity, a tax status of the entity, a credit report of the entity, a credit rating of the entity, a website rating of the entity, a plurality of customer reviews for a product of the entity, a social network rating of the entity, a plurality of credentials of the entity, a plurality of referrals of the entity, a plurality of testimonials for the entity, a plurality of behaviors of the entity, a location of the entity, a jurisdiction of the entity, and a geolocation of the entity.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a data collection circuit structured to obtain information about a condition of a collateral for the loan, wherein the collateral comprises at least one item selected from the items consisting of: a vehicle, a ship, a plane, a building, a home, real estate property, undeveloped land, a farm, a crop, a municipal facility, a warehouse, a set of inventory, a commodity, a security, a currency, a token of value, a ticket, a cryptocurrency, a consumable item, an edible item, a beverage, a precious metal, an item of jewelry, a gemstone, an item of intellectual property, an intellectual property right, a contractual right, an antique, a fixture, an item of furniture, an item of equipment, a tool, an item of machinery, and an item of personal property; and wherein the guarantee validation circuit is further structured to validate the guarantee of the loan in response to the condition of the collateral for the loan.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the social networking input circuit is further structured to enable a workflow by which a human user enters the loan guarantee parameter to establish a social network data collection and monitoring request.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a smart contract circuit structured to automatically undertake an action related to the loan in response to the validation of the loan.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the action related to the loan is in response to the loan guarantee not being validated, and wherein the action comprises at least one action selected from the actions consisting of: a foreclosure action, a lien administration action, an interest-rate adjustment action, a default initiation action, a substitution of collateral, a calling of the loan, and providing an alert to a second entity involved in the loan.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic process automation circuit structured to, based on iteratively training on a training data set comprising human user interactions with the social network data collection circuit, configure the loan guarantee parameter based on at least one attribute of the loan.
9. A method, comprising: interpreting a loan guarantee parameter; collecting data using a plurality of algorithms that is configured to monitor social network information about an entity involved in a loan in response to the loan guarantee parameter; and validating a guarantee for the loan in response to the monitored social network information.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising enabling a workflow by which a human user enters the loan guarantee parameter to establish a social network data collection and monitoring request.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising automatically undertaking an action related to the loan in response to the validation of the loan.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the action related to the loan is in response to the loan guarantee not being validated, and wherein the action comprises an action selected from a list of actions consisting of: a foreclosure action, a lien administration action, an interest-rate adjustment action, a default initiation action, a substitution of collateral, and a calling of the loan.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining at least one domain to which the plurality of algorithms will apply.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the action related to the loan is in response to the loan guarantee not being validated, and wherein the action comprises providing an alert to a second entity involved in the loan.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising iteratively training a robotic process automation circuit to configure a data collection and monitoring action based on at least one attribute of the loan, wherein the robotic process automation circuit is trained on a training data set comprising at least one of outcomes from or human user interactions with the plurality of algorithms.
16. An apparatus, comprising: a social networking input circuit structured to interpret a loan guarantee parameter; a social network data collection circuit structured to collect data using a plurality of algorithms that is configured to monitor social network information about a guarantor of the loan in response to the loan guarantee parameter; and a guarantee validation circuit structured to validate a guarantee for the loan in response to the monitored social network information.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, further comprising: a data collection circuit structured to obtain information about a condition of a collateral for the loan, wherein the collateral comprises at least one item selected from the items consisting of: a vehicle, a ship, a plane, a building, a home, real estate property, undeveloped land, a farm, a crop, a municipal facility, a warehouse, a set of inventory, a commodity, a security, a currency, a token of value, a ticket, a cryptocurrency, a consumable item, an edible item, a beverage, a precious metal, an item of jewelry, a gemstone, an item of intellectual property, an intellectual property right, a contractual right, an antique, a fixture, an item of furniture, an item of equipment, a tool, an item of machinery, and an item of personal property; and wherein the guarantee validation circuit is further structured to validate the guarantee for the loan in response to the condition of the collateral for the loan.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the loan guarantee parameter comprises a financial condition of the guarantor of the loan, and wherein the guarantee validation circuit is further structured to determine the financial condition of the guarantor of the loan based on at least one attribute selected from the attributes consisting of: a publicly stated valuation of an entity, a set of property owned by the entity as indicated by public records, a valuation of a set of property owned by the entity, a bankruptcy condition of the entity, a foreclosure status of the entity, a contractual default status of the entity, a regulatory violation status of the entity, a criminal status of an entity, an export controls status of the entity, an embargo status of the entity, a tariff status of the entity, a tax status of the entity, a credit report of the entity, a credit rating of the entity, a website rating of the entity, a set of customer reviews for a product of the entity, a social network rating of the entity, a set of credentials of the entity, a set of referrals of the entity, a set of testimonials for the entity, a set of behavior of the entity, a location of the entity, and a geolocation of the entity.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the loan comprises at least one loan type selected from the loan types consisting of: an auto loan, an inventory loan, a capital equipment loan, a bond for performance, a capital improvement loan, a building loan, a loan backed by an account receivable, an invoice finance arrangement, a factoring arrangement, a pay day loan, a refund anticipation loan, a student loan, a syndicated loan, a title loan, a home loan, a venture debt loan, a loan of intellectual property, a loan of a contractual claim, a working capital loan, a small business loan, a farm loan, a municipal bond, and a subsidized loan.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the social networking input circuit is further structured to enable a workflow by which a human user enters the loan guarantee parameter to establish a social network data collection and monitoring request.
</claims>
</document>
