<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q20/40,G08B13/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALEGEUS TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BULL, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69054714
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fraud detection and control in multi-tiered centralized processing
</title>

<abstract>
Detecting and controlling fraud in centralized processing is provided. A system receives data packets carrying electronic transactions, and clusters the electronic transactions based on an intermediary identifier of each of the electronic transactions to identify a first cluster and a second cluster. The system generates a first model for the first cluster and a second model for the second cluster. The system detects a fraudulent electronic transaction having a first source identifier. The system locks a first data structure to prevent transfer of a first resource in electronic transactions associated with the first source identifier. The system identifies source identifiers associated with the first cluster in a first tier. The system locks absent detection of the fraudulent electronic transaction in one or more electronic transaction associated with the source identifiers, the data structure corresponding to each of the source identifiers in the first cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of fraud detection and control in centralized processing, comprising: receiving, by a centralized state processing system comprising one or more processors and memory, data packets carrying a plurality of electronic transactions, each of the plurality of electronic transactions comprising a source identifier corresponding to a data structure storing a resource, a destination identifier corresponding to a data structure to transfer the resource, and an intermediary identifier corresponding to an entity that provides at least a portion of the resource stored in the data structure; clustering, by the centralized state processing system, the source identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions based on the intermediary identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions to identify a first cluster of source identifiers in a first tier having a first intermediary identifier, and a second cluster of source identifiers in a second tier having a second intermediary identifier; generating, by the centralized state processing system, a first model for the first cluster of source identifiers and a second model for the second cluster of source identifiers; detecting, by the centralized state processing system using the first model, a fraudulent electronic transaction having a first source identifier and the first intermediary identifier, the first source identifier corresponding to a first data structure storing a first resource; locking, by the centralized state processing system responsive to detection of the fraudulent electronic transaction, the first data structure to prevent transfer of the first resource in electronic transactions associated with the first source identifier; identifying, by the centralized state processing system, a plurality of source identifiers associated with the first cluster of source identifiers in the first tier; and locking, by the centralized state processing system, absent detection of the fraudulent electronic transaction in one or more electronic transaction associated with the plurality of source identifiers, the data structure corresponding to each of the plurality of source identifiers in the first cluster of source identifiers.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating, based on a machine learning model, the first model based on first historical electronic transactions associated the first tier that occurred during a first predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction; and generating, based on the machine learning model, the second model based on second historical electronic transactions associated with the second tier that occurred during a second predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction, the second predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction and different from the first predetermined time interval.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising: selecting the first predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction to generate the first model based on a first characteristic of the first tier; and selecting the second predetermined time interval to generate the second model based on a second characteristic of the second tier.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating an electronic transaction model for the first source identifier; and using the electronic transaction model to detect the fraudulent electronic transaction having the first source identifier and the first intermediary identifier.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: receiving a second plurality of electronic transactions associated with the first tier; authorizing each of the second plurality of electronic transactions based on not detecting fraud on each of the second plurality of electronic transactions; applying a statistical analysis to an aggregate of the second plurality of electronic transactions; detecting fraud in the first tier based on the statistical analysis applied to the aggregate of the second plurality of transactions, wherein fraud is not detected on each of the second plurality of electronic transactions when analyzed independently; and locking, by the centralized state processing system, source identifiers associated with the second plurality of electronic transactions.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating an alert based on a type of fraud detected by the centralized state processing system; and transmitting the alert to a device associated with the first intermediary identifier.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the intermediary identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions corresponds to an entity that configures or authorized the source identifier associated with each of the plurality of electronic transactions.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein locking the plurality of source identifiers associated with the first tier that are not detected to be fraudulent comprises: blocking packets carrying electronic transactions associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein locking the plurality of source identifiers associated with the first tier that are not detected to be fraudulent comprises: preventing completion of electronic transactions associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising: subsequent to locking the plurality of source identifiers associated with the first tier, requesting multi-factor authentication responsive to a request to conduct an electronic transaction associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers that are locked.
11. A system to detect and control fraud in centralized processing, comprising: a centralized state processing system comprising one or more processors and memory that execute a fraud detector to: receive data packets carrying a plurality of electronic transactions, each of the plurality of electronic transactions comprising a source identifier corresponding to a data structure storing a resource, a destination identifier corresponding to a data structure to transfer the resource, and an intermediary identifier corresponding to an entity that provides at least a portion of the resource stored in the data structure; cluster the source identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions based on the intermediary identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions to identify a first cluster of source identifiers in a first tier having a first intermediary identifier, and a second cluster of source identifiers in a second tier having a second intermediary identifier; generate a first model for the first cluster of source identifiers and a second model for the second cluster of source identifiers; detect, using the first model, a fraudulent electronic transaction having a first source identifier and the first intermediary identifier, the first source identifier corresponding to a first data structure storing a first resource; lock, responsive to detection of the fraudulent electronic transaction, the first data structure to prevent transfer of the first resource in electronic transactions associated with the first source identifier; identify a plurality of source identifiers associated with the first cluster of source identifiers in the first tier; and lock absent detection of the fraudulent electronic transaction in one or more electronic transaction associated with the plurality of source identifiers, the data structure corresponding to each of the plurality of source identifiers in the first cluster of source identifiers.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: generate, based on a machine learning technique, the first model based on first historical electronic transactions associated the first tier that occurred during a first predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction; and generate, based on the machine learning technique, the second model based on second historical electronic transactions associated the second tier that occurred during a second predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction, the second predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction and different from the first predetermined time interval.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: select the first predetermined time interval absent the fraudulent electronic transaction to generate the first model based on a first characteristic of the first tier; and select the second predetermined time interval to generate the second model based on a second characteristic of the second tier.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: generate an electronic transaction model for the first source identifier; and use the electronic transaction model to detect the fraudulent electronic transaction having the first source identifier and the first intermediary identifier.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: receive a second plurality of electronic transactions associated with the first tier; authorize each of the second plurality of electronic transactions based on not detecting fraud on each of the second plurality of electronic transactions; apply a statistical analysis to an aggregate of the second plurality of electronic transactions; detect fraud in the first tier based on the statistical analysis applied to the aggregate of the second plurality of transactions, wherein fraud is not detected on each of the second plurality of electronic transactions when analyzed independently; and lock source identifiers associated with the second plurality of electronic transactions.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: generate an alert based on a type of fraud detected by the centralized state processing system; and transmit the alert to a device associated with the first intermediary identifier.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the intermediary identifier of each of the plurality of electronic transactions corresponds to an entity that configures or authorized the source identifier associated with each of the plurality of electronic transactions.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: block packets carrying electronic transactions associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: preventing completion of electronic transactions associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the centralized state processing system is further configured to: subsequent to the plurality of source identifiers associated with the first tier locked, request multi-factor authentication responsive to a request to conduct an electronic transaction associated with one or more of the plurality of source identifiers that are locked.
</claims>
</document>
