<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/715,H04L12/751,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
128 TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PENFIELD, ROBERT
BAJ, MICHAEL
TIMMONS, PATRICK
MELAMPY, PATRICK
KAPLAN, HADRIEL S.
MENON, ABILASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73230823
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CENTRAL AUTHORITY FOR SERVICE AND TOPOLOGY EXCHANGE
</title>

<abstract>
A routing system for implementing a service and topology exchange protocol (STEP) comprises a primary STEP server configured to maintain a STEP repository and a plurality of routers, each router including a STEP client in communication with the primary STEP server. The STEP client of each router is configured to transmit, using the service and topology exchange protocol, service and topology state information for at least one route or service available through the router to the primary STEP server for storage in the STEP repository. The primary STEP server is configured to determine, for each router, whether the STEP repository includes any service and topology state information changes for the router based at least in part on the service and topology state information received from the routers and to transmit to the STEP client of each router for which there are service and topology state information changes, using the service and topology exchange protocol, only the service and topology state information changes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A routing system for implementing a service and topology exchange protocol (STEP), the routing system comprising: a primary STEP server configured to maintain a STEP repository; and a plurality of routers, each router including a STEP client in communication with the primary STEP server; wherein: the STEP client of each router is configured to transmit, using the service and topology exchange protocol, service and topology state information for at least one route or service available through the router to the primary STEP server for storage in the STEP repository; and the primary STEP server is configured to determine, for each router, whether the STEP repository includes any service and topology state information changes for the router based at least in part on the service and topology state information received from the routers and to transmit to the STEP client of each router for which there are service and topology state information changes, using the service and topology exchange protocol, only the service and topology state information changes.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the service and topology state information changes transmitted by the primary STEP server include JSON patch documents.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the information in the STEP repository is organized as a path tree database and wherein the service and topology state information received from the routers includes a path definition identifying the router for storage of the router's service and topology state information in the path tree database.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one secondary STEP server that is configured to proxy STEP requests to the primary STEP server.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one router is a member of a plurality of districts and at least one of (a) the router transmits separate service and topology state information for each district of which it is a member or (b) the router receives from the primary STEP server service and topology state information changes for each district of which it is a member.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the STEP repository is not persistent such that the STEP repository needs to be repopulated after the primary STEP server is restarted.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the service and topology state information transmitted by the router further includes a service level agreement for a given service and an indication of whether or not the given service is within the service level agreement.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one router is a member of a district and transmits service and topology state information including a route or service learned from outside of the district.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one router transmits service and topology state information including at least one path metric for a route or service.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the the STEP client of each router can create a path and can subscribe to receive notifications on the path.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the primary STEP server is in one of the routers.
12. A server for implementing a service and topology exchange protocol (STEP), the router comprising: a datastore; and a STEP server controller in communication with a plurality of routers, each router including a STEP client, the STEP server controller configured to: maintain a STEP repository in the datastore; receive, from the STEP client of each router, using the service and topology exchange protocol, service and topology state information for at least one route or service available through the router; store the received service and topology state information in the STEP repository; determine, for each router, whether the STEP repository includes any service and topology state information changes for the router based at least in part on the service and topology state information received from the routers; and transmit to the STEP client of each router for which there are service and topology state information changes, using the service and topology exchange protocol, only the service and topology state information changes.
13. The server of claim 12, wherein the service and topology state information changes transmitted by the STEP server controller include JSON patch documents.
14. The server of claim 12, wherein the information in the STEP repository is organized as a path tree database and wherein the service and topology state information received from the routers includes a path definition identifying the router for storage of the router's service and topology state information in the path tree database.
15. The server of claim 12, wherein at least one router is a member of a plurality of districts and at least one of (a) the router transmits separate service and topology state information for each district of which it is a member or (b) the router receives from the primary STEP server service and topology state information changes for each district of which it is a member.
16. The server of claim 12, wherein the STEP repository is not persistent such that the STEP repository needs to be repopulated after the primary STEP server is restarted.
17. The server of claim 12, wherein the the STEP client of each router can create a path and can subscribe to receive notifications on the path.
18. The server of claim 12, wherein the server is in one of the routers.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the primary STEP server is configured to make or contribute to routing decisions based on the service and topology state information received from the STEP clients and to distribute routing decision information to the STEP clients.
20. The server of claim 12, wherein the primary STEP server is configured to make or contribute to routing decisions based on the service and topology state information received from the STEP clients and to distribute routing decision information to the STEP clients.
</claims>
</document>
