<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F40/216,G06N5/02,G06N7/00,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADDULA, SEKHAR NAGA VENKATA
PILLA, CHANDRASEKHAR
GUPTA, SHALLU
BHUTANI, SANDEEP
BALASUBRAMANIAN, RAMKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70728210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for recommending automation solutions for technology infrastructure issues
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method to intelligently formulate automation strategies for technology infrastructure operations are disclosed. The system and method include analyzing infrastructure issue data from support tickets and predicting automation solutions. A cost-benefit analysis is then performed on the automation solutions. Solutions can be ranked and recommended according to the cost-benefit analysis.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of predicting automation solutions for technology infrastructure issues, the method comprising: analyzing information related to a plurality of technology infrastructure issues; extracting a set of data features corresponding to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues; identifying a first set of technology infrastructure issues and predicting a first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; identifying a second set of technology infrastructure issues and predicting a second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; estimating a first cost-savings amount associated with implementing the first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; estimating a second cost-savings amount associated with implementing the second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; and ranking the first automation solution higher than the second automation solution when the first cost-savings amount is greater than the second cost-savings amount.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes the steps of receiving a plurality of technology infrastructure support tickets; and retrieving the information related to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues from the plurality of technology infrastructure support tickets.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein analyzing information related to the plurality of infrastructure issues includes identify sequences of related technology infrastructure issues.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein extracting the set of data features includes: converting the information related to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues into vectors in a vectors space; and calculating the cosine similarity between the vectors in the vector space and a unit vector in the vector space.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein predicting the first automation solution includes using a Multinomial Naïve Bayes analysis and a Gradient Boosting Machine.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes using information from an infrastructure knowledge base, the infrastructure knowledge base including information about a set of activities and automation solutions for the set of activities.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the method further includes periodically updating the infrastructure knowledge base.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes producing a plurality of solutions corresponding to different groups of technology infrastructure issues, ranking the plurality of solutions, and recommending a subset of ranked solutions.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes predicting a technology associated with the first automation solution, and wherein the technology is predicted by analyzing verbs in the information related to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the technology is a software scripting technology.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein extracting features includes applying a term frequency-inverse document frequency matrix to a set of words associated with one or more technology infrastructure issues.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions that are executable by one or more device processors to predict automation solutions for technology infrastructure issues by: analyzing information related to a plurality of technology infrastructure issues; extracting a set of data features corresponding to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues; identifying a first set of technology infrastructure issues and predicting a first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; identifying a second set of technology infrastructure issues and predicting a second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; estimating a first cost-savings amount associated with implementing the first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; estimating a second cost-savings amount associated with implementing the second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; and ranking the first automation solution higher than the second automation solution when the first cost-savings amount is greater than the second cost-savings amount.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein analyzing the information includes determining sequences of infrastructure issues.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein determining sequences includes using a random forest algorithm.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein determining sequences includes using an unsupervised rule induction and affinity analysis.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein extracting the set of data features includes using a non-linear classification algorithm.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executable to predict automation solutions by producing a plurality of solutions corresponding to different groups of technology infrastructure issues, ranking the plurality of solutions, and recommending a subset of ranked solutions.
18. A system for predicting automation solutions for technology infrastructure issues, the system comprising: a device processor; and a non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that are executable by the device processor to: analyze information related to a plurality of technology infrastructure issues; extract a set of data features corresponding to the plurality of technology infrastructure issues; identify a first set of technology infrastructure issues and predict a first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; identify a second set of technology infrastructure issues and predict a second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; estimate a first cost-savings amount associated with implementing the first automation solution for the first set of technology infrastructure issues; estimate a second cost-savings amount associated with implementing the second automation solution for the second set of technology infrastructure issues; and rank the first automation solution higher than the second automation solution when the first cost-savings amount is greater than the second cost-savings amount.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein to estimate a first cost-savings amount, the instructions are executable by the device processor to calculate the manual effort spent performing an activity associated with the first automation solution.
20. The system according to claim 19, wherein the instructions are executable by the device processor to predict a break-even time for recovering costs associated with the first automation solution.
</claims>
</document>
