<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/12,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CONCHA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NORTHWAY, DAVID
LI, AMY
SORG, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68164588
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING EVALUATION AND CONFIGURATION OF A HEARING ASSISTANCE-DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for evaluating hearing of a user comprising: generating a baseline hearing profile for the user comprising a set of gain values based on a volume setting, each gain value in the set of gain values corresponding to a frequency band in a set of frequency bands; accessing a soundbite comprising a phrase characterized by a frequency spectrum predominantly within one frequency band; playing the soundbite amplified by a first gain in the frequency band; playing the soundbite amplified by a second gain in the frequency band; receiving a preference input representing a preference of the user from amongst the soundbite amplified by the first gain and the soundbite amplified by the second; and modifying a gain value, corresponding to the frequency band, in the baseline hearing profile based on the preference input to generate a refined hearing profile compensating for hearing deficiency of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A method for evaluating hearing of a user comprising: accessing a baseline hearing profile for the user comprising a set of gain values, each gain value in the set of gain values corresponding to a frequency band in a set of frequency bands; accessing a first soundbite comprising a first recognizable sound characterized by a first frequency spectrum comprising a first spectral peak within a first frequency band in the set of frequency bands; playing the first soundbite amplified by a first gain in the first frequency band; playing the first soundbite amplified by a second gain in the first frequency band different from the first gain; receiving a first preference input representing a preference of the user from among the first soundbite amplified by the first gain in the first frequency band and the first soundbite amplified by the second gain in the first frequency band; and modifying a first gain value, corresponding to the first frequency band, in the baseline hearing profile based on the first preference input to generate a first refined hearing profile.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound further comprises accessing the first soundbite comprising a first spoken phrase characterized by the first frequency spectrum comprising the first spectral peak within the first frequency band in the set of frequency bands.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound further comprises accessing the first soundbite comprising a first musical recording characterized by the first frequency spectrum comprising the first spectral peak within the first frequency band in the set of frequency bands.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound further comprises accessing the first soundbite comprising a first phoneme characterized by the first frequency spectrum comprising the first spectral peak within the first frequency band in the set of frequency bands.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound further comprises accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound and broadband noise.
6. The method of claim 5: further comprising recording a noise sample characterized by a noise spectrum; and wherein accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound and the broadband noise further comprises: generating the broadband noise based on the noise spectrum; and generating the first soundbite from the first recognizable sound and the broadband noise.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the first soundbite further comprises accessing the first soundbite comprising the first recognizable sound characterized by a spectral density within the first frequency band exceeding a threshold spectral density.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on the first preference input representing a preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the second gain in the first frequency band: playing the first soundbite amplified by a third gain proximal to the second gain in the first frequency band different from the first gain and the second gain; and playing the first soundbite amplified by a fourth gain proximal to the second gain in the first frequency band different from the first gain, the second gain, and the third gain; receiving a second preference input representing the user's preference from among the first soundbite amplified by the third gain in the first frequency band and the first soundbite amplified by the fourth gain in the first frequency band; and modifying the first gain value, corresponding to the first frequency band in the first refined hearing profile based on the second preference input to generate a second refined hearing profile.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein playing the first soundbite amplified by the third gain and playing the first soundbite amplified by the fourth gain based on the first preference input further comprises accessing, from a node representing the second gain in a binary tree, a set of leaves in the binary tree representing the third gain and the fourth gain.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting a second frequency band in the set of frequency bands, the second frequency band characterized by a center frequency different than a center frequency of the first frequency band; playing a second soundbite amplified by a third gain in the second frequency band, the second soundbite comprising a second recognizable sound characterized by a second frequency spectrum comprising a second spectral peak within the second frequency band; playing the second soundbite amplified by a fourth gain in the second frequency band, the fourth gain different from the third gain; receiving a second preference input representing a preference of the user from among the second soundbite amplified by the third gain in the second frequency band and the second soundbite amplified by the fourth gain in the second frequency band; and modifying a second gain value corresponding to the second frequency band of the first refined hearing profile based on the second preference input to generate a second refined hearing profile for the user.
11. A method for evaluating hearing of a user comprising: accessing a baseline hearing profile for the user comprising a set of gain values, each gain value in the set of gain values corresponding to a frequency band in a set of frequency bands; playing audible media for the user; while playing the audible media: amplifying the audible media by a first gain in the first frequency band; and amplifying the audible media by a second gain in the first frequency band different from the first gain; receiving a first preference input representing a preference of the user from among the audible media amplified by the first gain in the first frequency band and the audible media amplified by the second gain in the first frequency band; and modifying a first gain value, corresponding to the first frequency band, in the baseline hearing profile based on the first preference input to generate a first refined hearing profile compensating for hearing deficiency of the user.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein playing the audible media for the user further comprises: accessing a first soundbite comprising a first recognizable sound characterized by a first frequency spectrum comprising a first spectral peak within the first frequency band; and playing the first soundbite for the user.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein playing the audible media for the user further comprises: initiating a phone call; and playing audio of the phone call for the user.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein initiating the phone call further comprises initiating the phone call via a user portal.
15. A method for evaluating hearing of a user comprising: accessing a baseline hearing profile for the user comprising a set of gain values, each gain value in the set of gain values corresponding to a frequency band in a set of frequency bands; accessing a first soundbite comprising a first recognizable sound characterized by a first frequency spectrum comprising a first spectral peak within a first frequency band in the set of frequency bands; playing the first soundbite amplified by a first gain in the first frequency band; receiving a first preference input representing a preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the first gain; and modifying a first gain value, corresponding to the first frequency band, in the baseline hearing profile based on the first preference input to generate a first refined hearing profile.
16. The method of claim 15: further comprising playing the first soundbite amplified by the baseline hearing profile; wherein playing the first soundbite amplified by the first gain in the first frequency band further comprises: replacing a baseline gain value for the first frequency band in the baseline hearing profile with the first gain to generate a first modified hearing profile; and playing the first soundbite amplified by the first modified hearing profile; and wherein receiving the first preference input representing the preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the first gain further comprises receiving the first preference input representing the preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the first modified hearing profile from among the first soundbite amplified by the first modified hearing profile and the first soundbite amplified by the baseline hearing profile.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: in response to the first preference input representing the preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the first modified hearing profile: modifying the first gain for the first frequency band in the first modified hearing profile to a second gain to generate a second modified hearing profile; playing the first soundbite amplified by the second modified hearing profile; receiving a second preference input representing a preference of the user for the first soundbite amplified by the second modified hearing profile; and modifying a second gain value, corresponding to the first frequency band, in the first refined hearing profile based on the first preference input to generate a second refined hearing profile.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising, in response to the first refined hearing profile deviating from a nominal hearing profile greater than a threshold deviation, prompting the user to obtain a hearing assistance device.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein accessing the baseline hearing profile further comprises generating the baseline hearing profile based on demographic data of the user.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein generating the baseline hearing profile based on demographic data of the user further comprises: accessing demographic data of the user comprising at least one of: an age of the user; a sex of the user; and an occupation of the user; and generating the baseline hearing profile based on the age of the user, the sex of the user, the occupation of the user, and a hearing profile model.
</claims>
</document>
