<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/903,G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEI KAI
YANG, DONG
LU JINXING
MO, WENTING
HU, Zijian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516841
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WAREHOUSE BATCH PRODUCT PICKING OPTIMIZATION USING HIGH DENSITY AREAS TO MINIMIZE TRAVEL
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide computer-implemented systems and methods for batch picking optimization. The system may include one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to receive an order comprising one or more items for picking. Additionally, the system may calculate one or more high density areas in a fulfillment center by calculating distances between a first item in the one or more items and at least one other item in the one or more items using a search algorithm. Additionally, the system may calculate nearest neighboring items for the one or more items and generate a high density area by choosing a plurality of the nearest neighboring items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for batch picking optimization, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: receive an order over a communication network, the order comprising one or more items; calculate one or more high density areas in a fulfillment center by: calculating distances between a first item in the one or more items and at least one other item in the one or more items using a search algorithm, calculating nearest neighboring items for the one or more items, and generating a high density area by choosing a plurality of the nearest neighboring items; store, for the one or more items, a distance between a respective item and a closest second item; create a batch based on the calculated one or more high density areas; add items from the one or more high density areas into the batch based on an item increasing an average distance least among pickable items, using a digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch; provide, over the communications network, the digital map and instructions with a list of items for gathering in the batch to a user device for display; receive, over the communications network, detail information for the batch and scanned item data; and update the digital map based on a change associated with stowed items and the detail information for the batch.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the high density areas are calculated based on optimizing choosing of the nearest neighboring items to incur minimal travel distance.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to execute a gradient descent algorithm that adds items from the one or more high density areas into the batch and uses the digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the user device is one of a mobile user device, PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device; and wherein the system further comprises a database comprising at least one record associating the user device with a user identifier and providing the digital map and instructions with a list of items for gathering in the batch to the user device for display is in response to the system querying the database for the user device associated with the user identifier.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein choosing the plurality of the nearest neighboring items comprises choosing three nearest neighboring items.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the items in the batch for gathering include a package identifier associated with a Stock Keeping Unit (SKU) for display on the user device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein calculating distances between items comprises: retrieving the digital map comprising location pairs, each pair representing two pickable items; and calculating distances between items using a plurality of the retrieved location pairs.
8. A computer-implemented system for batch picking optimization, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; a database comprising at least one record associating a user device with a user identifier; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: receive an order over a communication network, the order comprising one or more items; calculate one or more high density areas in a fulfillment center by: calculating distances between a first item in the one or more items and at least one other item in the one or more items using a search algorithm, calculating nearest neighboring items for the one or more items, and generating a high density area by choosing a plurality of the nearest neighboring items; store, for the one or more items, a distance between a respective item and a closest second item; create a batch based on the calculated one or more high density areas; add items from the one or more high density areas into the batch based on an item increasing an average distance least among pickable items, using a digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch; provide, over the communications network, the digital map and instructions with a list of items for gathering in the batch to the user device for display in response to querying the database for the user device associated with the user identifier; receive, over the communications network, detail information for the batch and scanned item data; and update the digital map based on a change associated with stowed items and the detail information for the batch.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the high density areas are calculated based on optimizing choosing of the nearest neighboring items to incur minimal travel distance.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to execute a gradient descent algorithm that adds items from the one or more high density areas into the batch and uses the digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the user device is one of a mobile user device, a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein choosing the plurality of the nearest neighboring items is three nearest neighboring items.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein items in the batch include a barcode associated with the Stock Keeping Units (SKUs) provided in the list of items for gathering in the batch on the user device for display.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the digital map comprises location pairs, each pair representing two pickable items.
15. A computer-implemented method for batch picking optimization, the method comprising: receiving an order over a communication network, the order comprising one or more items; calculating one or more high density areas in a fulfillment center by: calculating distances between a first item in the one or more items and at least one other item in the one or more items using a search algorithm, calculating nearest neighboring items for the one or more items, and generating a high density area by choosing a plurality of the nearest neighboring items; storing, for the one or more items, a distance between a respective item and a closest second item; creating a batch based on the calculated one or more high density areas; add items from the one or more high density areas into the batch based on an item increasing an average distance least among pickable items, using a digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch; providing, over the communications network, the digital map and instructions with a list of items for gathering in the batch to a user device for display; receiving, over the communications network, detail information for the batch and scanned item data; and updating the digital map based on a change associated with stowed items and the detail information for the batch.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the high density areas are calculated based on optimizing choosing of the nearest neighboring items to incur minimal travel distance.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to execute a gradient descent algorithm that adds items from the one or more high density areas into the batch and uses the digital map to determine an exchange of items that will increase a quality of the batch.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the user device is one of a mobile user device, a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein choosing the plurality of the nearest neighboring items is three nearest neighboring items.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein choosing the plurality of the nearest neighboring items comprises choosing three nearest neighboring items.
</claims>
</document>
