<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIN, HONGXIA
RAY, AVIK
SHEN, YILIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043728
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMPLEX TASK MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device for complex task machine learning includes at least one memory and at least one processor coupled to the at least one memory. The at least one processor is configured to receive an unknown command for performing a task and generate a prompt regarding the unknown command. The at least one processor is also configured to receive one or more instructions in response to the prompt, where each of the one or more instructions provides information on performing at least a portion of the task. The at least one processor is further configured to determine at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions. In addition, the at least one processor is configured to create a complex action for performing the task based on the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for complex task machine learning, the method comprising: receiving an unknown command for performing a task; generating a prompt regarding the unknown command; receiving one or more instructions in response to the prompt, wherein each of the one or more instructions provides information on performing at least a portion of the task; determining at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions; and creating, by at least one processor, a complex action for performing the task based on the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions includes identifying, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, an application context or a context-specific action in a knowledge base.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions includes: identifying, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, that an application context or a context-specific action is not provided in a knowledge base; generating a request for information on the application context or the context-specific action; and receiving the information on the application context or the context-specific action in response to the request.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the request for information on the application context or the context-specific action is displayed in a user interface that provides one or more selectable items for indicating the application context or the context-specific action.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the complex action includes registering the determined at least one action for at least one of the one or more instructions as being dependent on the determined at least one action of another one of the one or more instructions.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: instructing performance, by a first device, of the at least one action of a first one of the one or more instructions; and instructing performance, by a second device, of the at least one action of a second one of the one or more instructions.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the complex action for performing the task in association with one or more parameters corresponding to the unknown command; and executing the complex action in response to receiving a subsequent command, wherein the subsequent command includes one or more features in common with the unknown command.
8. An electronic device for complex task machine learning, the electronic device comprising: at least one memory; and at least one processor coupled to the at least one memory, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: receive an unknown command for performing a task; generate a prompt regarding the unknown command; receive one or more instructions in response to the prompt, wherein each of the one or more instructions provides information on performing at least a portion of the task; determine at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions; and create a complex action for performing the task based on the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein, to determine the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions, the at least one processor is configured to identify, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, an application context or a context-specific action in a knowledge base.
10. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein, to determine the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions, the at least one processor is configured to: identify, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, that an application context or a context-specific action is not provided in a knowledge base; generate a request for information on the application context or the context-specific action; and receive the information on the application context or the context-specific action in response to the request.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the request for information on the application context or the context-specific action is displayed in a user interface that provides one or more selectable items for indicating the application context or the context-specific action.
12. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein, to create the complex action, the at least one processor is configured to register the determined at least one action for at least one of the one or more instructions as being dependent on the determined at least one action of another one of the one or more instructions.
13. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: instruct performance, by a first device, of the at least one action of a first one of the one or more instructions; and instruct performance, by a second device, of the at least one action of a second one of the one or more instructions.
14. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: store the complex action for performing the task in association with one or more parameters corresponding to the unknown command; and execute the complex action in response to receiving a subsequent command, wherein the subsequent command includes one or more features in common with the unknown command.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying a computer program, the computer program comprising instructions that when executed cause at least one processor of an electronic device to: receive an unknown command for performing a task; generate a prompt regarding the unknown command; receive one or more instructions in response to the prompt, wherein each of the one or more instructions provides information on performing at least a portion of the task; determine at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions; and create a complex action for performing the task based on the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to determine the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions further cause the processor to: identify, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, an application context or a context-specific action in a knowledge base.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to determine the at least one action for each one of the one or more instructions further cause the processor to: identify, based on at least one of the one or more instructions, that an application context or a context-specific action is not provided in a knowledge base; generate a request for information on the application context or the context-specific action; and receive the information on the application context or the context-specific action in response to the request.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions that when executed cause the at least one processor to create the complex action further cause the processor to: register the determined at least one action for at least one of the one or more instructions as being dependent on the determined at least one action of another one of the one or more instructions.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one processor to: instruct performance, by a first device, of the at least one action of a first one of the one or more instructions; and instruct performance, by a second device, of the at least one action of a second one of the one or more instructions.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one processor to: store the complex action for performing the task in association with one or more parameters corresponding to the unknown command; and execute the complex action in response to receiving a subsequent command, wherein the subsequent command includes one or more features in common with the unknown command.
</claims>
</document>
