<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G09B5/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACTIONTEC ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI CHUANG
CHANG, DEAN
XIONG, BO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67902627
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLASSROOM ASSISTANCE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods involving machine learning functionality in a classroom setting are described to aid a teacher in certain teaching and administrative tasks. The classroom assistance system involves member devices used by students and at least one moderator device used by a teacher and may further involve an administrator device used by an administrator and a server. The member devices may display media content. The moderator device may include an image/audio input device and may execute machine learning engines running machine learning models that generate results indicative of student behavior, student comprehension and the appropriateness of media content. The teacher, using the moderator device, may provide feedback regarding the results. The member device may generate more than one type of result and one result may provide feedback with respect to the other result. Feedback may be used to train the machine learning model and generate improved models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A classroom assistance system comprising: a plurality of member devices, each member device comprising; a processor; an image input device configured to generate image data; a display configured to display content data; a machine learning model; and a machine learning engine configured to run on the processor and process at least one of image data or content data using the machine learning model to generate a result, wherein each member device of the plurality of member devices corresponds to a student.
2. A classroom assistance system comprising: a plurality of member devices, each member device comprising; a processor; an image input device configured to generate image data; a display configured to display content data; a data analyzer configured to run on the processor and analyze at least one of image data or content data to generate analyzed data; a machine learning model; and a machine learning engine configured to run on the processor and process analyzed data using the machine learning model to generate a result; and a moderator client device comprising; a processor; and a display configured to display a user interface, wherein each member device of the plurality of member devices is used by a student and the moderator device is used by a teacher, wherein each member device of the plurality of member devices is in communication with the moderator device and each member device communicates the result generated on the member device to the moderator device, and wherein the user interface is configured to run on the processor and display each result generated by the plurality of member devices.
3. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein at least one result is indicative of behavior of the student using the member device that generated the at least one result.
4. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein at least one result is indicative of the comprehension of the student using the member device that generated the at least one result.
5. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein at least one result is indicative of whether content data is appropriate for display on the display of the member device that generated the at least one result.
6. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein the moderator device further comprises a moderator input device configured to generate input data, wherein the input data identifies at least one of the results generated by the plurality of member devices as incorrect.
7. The classroom assistance system of claim 6, wherein the member device that generated the result identified as incorrect is configured to receive the input data from the member device and train the machine learning model that generated the result identified as incorrect using the input data to produce an updated machine learning model.
8. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein each member device of the plurality of member devices is configured to automatically communicate to the moderator device at least a portion of the image data or content data.
9. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein the member device is configured to communicate at least a portion of image data or content data to the moderator device at the request of the moderator device.
10. The classroom assistance system of claim 8 or 9, wherein the user interface is configured to display the at least a portion of the image data or content data.
11. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein the member device is configured to automatically cause the member device to shut down if a certain result generated.
12. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein the moderator device is configured to cause the member device to shut down.
13. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, further comprising an administrator device, the administrator device comprising: an administrator processor; and a display configured to run an administrator user interface, wherein each member device of the plurality of member devices is in communication with the administrator device and each member device communicates the result generated on the member device to the administrator device, and wherein the administrator user interface is configured to run on the administer processor and display each result.
14. The classroom assistance system of claim 13, wherein the administrator device further comprises an administrator input device configured to generate administrator input data, wherein the administrator input data identifies at least one of the results generated by the plurality of member devices as incorrect.
15. The classroom assistance system of claim 14, wherein the member device that generated the result identified as incorrect is configured to receive the input data from the administrator device and train the machine learning model that generated the result identified as incorrect using the input data to produce an updated machine learning model.
16. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, further comprising a remote server, wherein the remote server is in communication with at least one of the plurality of member devices or moderator device and is configured to store at least one of image data, content data, analyzed data and results.
17. The classroom assistance system of claim 2, wherein the moderator device further comprises an access point configured to wirelessly connect the moderator device and the plurality of member devices.
18. A method for implementing a classroom assistance system involving a plurality of member devices and a moderator device, the method comprising: at each member device of the plurality of member devices, obtaining at least one of image data or content data and analyzing the image data or content data to generate analyzed data; at each member device of the plurality of member devices, applying the analyzed data to a machine learning engine executed locally on each member device to produce a result specific to that member device; at each member device of the plurality of member devices, communicating the result to the moderator device; at the moderator device, receiving each result from each member device; and at the moderator device, displaying each result on a user interface of the moderator device.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: at the moderator device, identifying at least one result as incorrect using a moderator input device to generate input data; at the moderator device, communicating the input data to the member device that generated the result identified as being incorrect; and at the member device, training the machine learning model that generated the result identified as being incorrect with the input data, resulting in an updated machine learning engine.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the result identified as being incorrect is indicative of at least one of: the behavior of a student using the member device that generated the result, the comprehension of the student using the member device that generated the result, or whether the content data is inappropriate for display on the member device.
</claims>
</document>
