<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OAKI JUNJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641940
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT CONTROL DEVICE, ROBOT CONTROL PARAMETER ADJUSTMENT METHOD, AND NON-TRANSITORY STORAGE MEDIUM STORING PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A robot control device includes a log acquisitor, a first adjuster, and a second adjuster. The log acquisitor is configured to acquire operation data of a robot arm which has been operated by making a target portion of the robot arm follow a predefined target path under a feedback control. The first adjuster is configured to adjust, based on the operation data acquired by the log acquisitor, a first physical parameter for calculating a trajectory of the target portion, to reduce errors between the predefined target path and positions of the target portion. The second adjuster is configured to calculate, based on the first physical parameter adjusted by the first adjuster, the trajectory of the target portion, the second adjuster that is configured to adjust, based on the trajectory calculated by the second adjuster, a second physical parameter to be used for a feed-forward control for controlling the robot arm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robot control device comprising: a log acquisitor that is configured to acquire operation data of a robot arm which has been operated by making a target portion of the robot arm follow a predefined target path under a feedback control; a first adjuster that is configured to adjust, based on the operation data acquired by the log acquisitor, a first physical parameter for calculating a trajectory of the target portion to reduce errors between the predefined target path and positions of the target portion; and a second adjuster that is configured to calculate, based on the first physical parameter adjusted by the first adjuster, the trajectory of the target portion, the second adjuster that is configured to adjust, based on the trajectory calculated by the second adjuster, a second physical parameter to be used for a feed-forward control for controlling the robot arm.
2. The robot control device according to claim 1, wherein the first adjuster is configured to optimize the first physical parameter included in a dynamic model for calculating an operation of the robot arm so as to minimize the error between the predefined target path and the positions of the target portion on the basis of the operation data acquired by the log acquisitor.
3. The robot control device according to claim 1, wherein the second adjuster is configured to calculate the trajectory of the target portion on the basis of the first physical parameter adjusted by the first adjuster and to optimize the second physical parameter to be used for the feed-forward control of the robot arm on the basis of the calculation results and a reverse dynamic model.
4. The robot control device according to claim 1, wherein the first adjuster is configured to optimize the first physical parameter included in a dynamic model for calculating operation of the robot arm for each segment of the predefined target path represented by basic figure patterns, and the second adjuster is configured to optimize the second physical parameter used for the feed-forward control for each path segment.
5. The robot control device according to claim 4, further comprising: a feed-forward controller that is configured to execute a feed-forward control by switching the second physical parameter used for the feed-forward control for each segment of the predefined target path.
6. A robot control device according to claim 1, further comprising: a feed-forward controller that is configured to execute a feed-forward control by switching the second physical parameter used for the feed-forward control for each segment of the predefined target path represented by basic figure patterns.
7. A robot device comprising: a robot arm that includes a plurality of arms having a plurality of movable axes, and the robot control device according to claim 1.
8. A computer-implemented method for a robot control parameter adjustment, the method comprising: acquiring operation data of a robot arm which has been operated by making a target portion of the robot arm follow a predefined target path under a feedback control; adjusting, based on the operation data acquired, a first physical parameter for calculating a trajectory of the target portion, to reduce errors between the predefined target path and positions of the target portion; calculating, based on the first physical parameter adjusted, the trajectory of the target portion; and adjusting, based on the trajectory calculated by the second adjuster, a second physical parameter to be used for a feed-forward control for controlling the robot arm.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 8 comprising: acquiring, from a storage, operation data of the robot arm which has been operated by making the target portion of the robot arm follow the predefined target path under the feedback control; storing a first calculation result in the storage, the first calculation result including the first physical parameter which has been adjusted, based on the operation data acquired, for calculating the trajectory of the target portion, to reduce errors between the predefined target path and positions of the target portion; storing a second calculation result in the storage, the second calculation result including the trajectory of the target portion which has been calculated, based on the first physical parameter adjusted; and storing a third calculation result in the storage, the third calculation result including the second physical parameter which has been adjusted, based on the trajectory calculated, for the feed-forward control for controlling the robot arm.
10. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium that stores a computer executable program, when executed by a computer, to cause the computer to perform a computer-implemented method for a robot control parameter adjustment, the method comprising: acquiring operation data of a robot arm which has been operated by making a target portion of the robot arm follow a predefined target path under a feedback control; adjusting, based on the operation data acquired, a first physical parameter for calculating a trajectory of the target portion, to reduce errors between the predefined target path and positions of the target portion; calculating, based on the first physical parameter adjusted, the trajectory of the target portion; and adjusting, based on the trajectory calculated by the second adjuster, a second physical parameter to be used for a feed-forward control for controlling the robot arm.
</claims>
</document>
