<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06F8/30,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RUBIN, STUART H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228090
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device, Method, and System for Synthesizing Variants of Semantically Equivalent Computer Source Code to Protect Against Cyber-Attacks
</title>

<abstract>
First and second computer source codes are generated by a case-based inference engine based on first and second parameters received via a user interface. The first and second parameters are different but are both associated with a desired result. The second computer source code is generated as a semantically equivalent variant of the first computer source code to provide for protection against a cyber-attack.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device, comprising: a user interface configured to: receive, from a user, a first parameter associated with a desired result; and receive, from the user or another user, a second parameter associated with the desired result, wherein the first parameter is different than the second parameter; and a case-based inference engine including at least one processor, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to: generate first computer source code based on the first parameter; and generate second computer source code based on the second parameter, wherein the second computer source code is generated as a semantically equivalent variant of the first computer source code to provide for protection against a cyber-attack.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first parameter and the second parameter are received responsive to a first query and a second query, respectively.
3. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising a case database configured to store cases.
4. The computing device of claim 3, wherein each case includes a situation and an action.
5. The computing device of claim 3, wherein the first parameter is associated with at least one first case stored in the case database, and the second parameter is associated with at least one second case stored in the case database.
6. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to select the at least one first case associated with the first parameter and select the at least one second case associated with the second parameter from the case database.
7. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the at least one first case is associated with first computer source code components, and wherein the at least one second case is associated with second computer source code components.
8. The computing device of claim 7, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to assemble the first computer source code components into the first computer source code and assemble the second computer source code components into the second computer source code.
9. A computer-based method, comprising: receiving, via a user interface, a first parameter associated with a desired result; generating, by a case-based inference engine, first computer source code by selecting at least one first case associated with first computer source code components based on the first parameter; receiving, via the user interface, a second parameter associated with the desired result, wherein the first parameter is different from the second parameter; generating, by the case-based inference engine, second computer source code by selecting at least one second case associated with second computer source code components based on the second parameter, wherein the second computer source code is generated as a semantically equivalent variant of the first computer source code to provide for protection against a cyber-attack.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one first case is selected from cases stored in a case database based on the first parameter.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one second case is selected from the cases stored in the case database based on the second parameter.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one second case is different than the at least one first case.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the first computer source code further includes assembling the first computer source code components into the first computer source code.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the second computer source code further includes assembling the second computer source code components into the second computer source code.
15. A computer-based system, comprising: a user interface configured to receive a first parameter associated with a desired result and a second parameter associated with the desired result, wherein the first parameter is different than the second parameter; a case database configured to store cases; a case-based inference engine configured to: generate first computer source code by selecting at least one first case from the case database based on the first parameter, wherein the at least one first case is associated with first computer source code components; and generate second computer source code by selecting at least one second case from the case database based on the second parameter, wherein the at least one second case is associated with second computer source code components, and wherein the second computer source code is generated as a semantically equivalent variant of the first computer source code to provide for protection against a cyber-attack.
16. The computer-based system of claim 15, wherein the case-based inference engine includes a first processor and a second processor that are configured to generate the first computer source code and the second computer source code, respectively.
17. The computer-based system of claim 15, further comprising a computer source code component database configured to store a plurality of computer source code components.
18. The computer-based system of claim 17, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to select the first computer source code components associated with the at least one first case and select the second computer source components associated with the at least one second case from among the plurality of computer source code components stored in the computer source code component database.
19. The computer-based system of claim 18, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to assemble the first computer source code components, selected from the computer source code component database, into the first computer source code.
20. The computer-based system of claim 18, wherein the case-based inference engine is configured to assemble the second computer source code components, selected from the computer source code component database, into the second computer source code.
</claims>
</document>
