<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61N1/05,A61N1/36,A61N5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOWARD, NEWTON
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOWARD, NEWTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516252
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BRAIN-MACHINE INTERFACE (BMI)
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments may provide a general-purpose, relatively inexpensive, AI-driven implant that is able to adapt to and modulate any given region in the brain. For example, in an embodiment, an implant device adapted to be implanted within a body of a person for interacting with brain tissue may comprise a plurality of fibers adapted to receive electrical and optical signals from electrophysiological neural signals of the brain tissue and to transmit electrical and optical signals to provide electrophysiological stimulation of the brain tissue, the fibers electrically and optically coupled to at least one readout integrated circuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a computer system comprising a processor, memory accessible by the processor, and program instructions and data stored in the memory, the program instructions configured to implement a Brain Operating System to analyze an aggregate data stream and formulate instructions for neuromodulations in a closed loop feedback system; circuitry configured to receive digital data from an implant device, generate an aggregate data stream from the received signals, and transmit the aggregate data stream to the computer system and configured to receive instructions for neuromodulations from the computer system and transmit the received instructions to the implant device; and the implant device configured to be implanted within a body of a person for interacting with brain tissue comprising: a plurality of electrically conductive fibers adapted to receive electrical signals from electrophysiological neural signals of the brain tissue and to transmit electrical signals to provide electrophysiological stimulation of the brain tissue, the fibers electrically coupled to at least one readout integrated circuit, and at least one readout integrated circuit comprising a plurality of cells of circuitry, each cell electrically coupled to at least one fiber, each cell of circuitry comprising: circuitry adapted to receive the electrical neural signals from the plurality of fibers, to process the electrical neural signals to form digital data representing the neural signals, and to transmit the digital data, and circuitry configured receive the instructions for neuromodulations, convert the instructions for neuromodulations to electrical neural signals, and to transmit electrical neural signals through the plurality of carbon fibers so as to provide electrophysiological stimulation of the brain tissue.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the fibers comprise carbon nanotubes.
3. The device of claim 2, further comprising: a multiplexer, coupled to a plurality of cells of circuitry adapted to receive and process the electrical neural signals, adapted to select at least one of the electrical neural signals from the plurality of fibers; and an analog-to-digital converter, coupled to the multiplexer, adapted to form digital data representing the electrical neural signals.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a resolution of up to 24 bits per sample.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a resolution of from 8 bits per sample to 12 bits per sample.
6. The device of claim 3, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a variable resolution of from 8 bits per sample to 12 bits per sample.
7. The device of claim 3, further comprising: a digital-to analog converter, coupled to a multiplexer, adapted to form an analog electrical signal based on digital data representing a stimulation signal; and a multiplexer, coupled to the circuitry adapted to transmit electrical neural signals, adapted to select at least one of the plurality of fibers to receive the analog electrical signal.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the fibers comprise graphene.
9. The device of claim 8, further comprising: a multiplexer, coupled to a plurality of cells of circuitry adapted to receive and process the electrical neural signals, adapted to select at least one of the electrical neural signals from the plurality of fibers; and an analog-to-digital converter, coupled to the multiplexer, adapted to form digital data representing the electrical neural signals.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a resolution of up to 24 bits per sample.
11. The device of claim 9, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a resolution of from 8 bits per sample to 12 bits per sample.
12. The device of claim 9, wherein the analog-to-digital converter has a variable resolution of from 8 bits per sample to 12 bits per sample.
13. The device of claim 9, further comprising: a digital-to analog converter, coupled to a multiplexer, adapted to form an analog electrical signal based on digital data representing a stimulation signal; and a multiplexer, coupled to the circuitry adapted to transmit electrical neural signals, adapted to select at least one of the plurality of fibers to receive the analog electrical signal.
14. A system comprising: a computer system comprising a processor, memory accessible by the processor, and program instructions and data stored in the memory, the program instructions configured to implement a Brain Operating System to analyze an aggregate data stream and formulate instructions for neuromodulations in a closed loop feedback system; circuitry configured to receive digital data from an implant device, generate an aggregate data stream from the received signals, and transmit the aggregate data stream to the computer system and configured to receive instructions for neuromodulations from the computer system and transmit the received instructions to the implant device; and the implant device adapted to be implanted within a body of a person for interacting with brain tissue comprising: a plurality of optically conductive fibers adapted to receive optical signals from electrophysiological neural signals of the brain tissue and to transmit optical signals to provide electrophysiological stimulation of the brain tissue, the fibers optically coupled to at least one readout integrated circuit; and at least one readout integrated circuit comprising a plurality of cells of circuitry, each cell electrically coupled to at least one fiber, each cell of circuitry comprising: circuitry adapted to receive the optical signals from the plurality of fibers and to process the optical signals to form digital data representing the neural signals; and circuitry adapted to transmit optical signals through the plurality of carbon fibers so as to provide electrophysiological stimulation of the brain tissue.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the fibers comprise optical fibers.
16. The device of claim 15, further comprising: an optical multiplexer, coupled to the circuitry adapted to receive and process the optical signals, adapted to select at least one of the optical signals from the plurality of fibers; circuitry, coupled to the multiplexer, adapted to convert the optical signals to analog electrical signals; and an analog-to-digital converter, coupled to the circuitry adapted to convert the optical signals to analog electrical signals, adapted to form digital data representing the analog electrical signals.
17. The device of claim 16, further comprising: circuitry, coupled to a multiplexer, adapted to form an analog electrical signal based on digital data representing a stimulation signal; and a multiplexer, coupled to the circuitry adapted to transmit the optical signals, adapted to select at least one of the plurality of carbon fibers to receive the optical signal.
</claims>
</document>
