<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERUS ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DRUBNER, JEFFREY, M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770346
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR STREAMLINED AUDITING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and program products for streamlined auditing that receive an input audit request via the data interface; source entity type data (ETD) from one or more databases; prepare the ETD for input into an entity clustering module; match the ETD via the entity clustering module to locate linkages within the ETD and build relationships amongst one or more entities identified within the ETD; analyze the ETD relationships via an entity intelligence module to identify and segment targeted entities, from the one or more entities, that are applicable to the audit request; build inclusion lists of those targeted entities that are determined to fulfill the audit request; finalize the inclusion lists of targeted entities that fulfill the audit request to generate streamlined audit results; and output the streamlined audit results to an end user.
</abstract>

<claims>
Thus, having described the invention, what is claimed is:
1. A computing apparatus comprising: a processor; a memory; a data interface; and one or more logic element modules comprising a streamlined auditing engine to: receive an input audit request via the data interface; source entity type data (ETD) from one or more databases; prepare the ETD for input into an entity clustering module; match the ETD via the entity clustering module to locate linkages within the ETD and build relationships amongst one or more entities identified within the ETD; analyze the ETD relationships via an entity intelligence module to identify and segment targeted entities, from the one or more entities, that are applicable to the audit request; build inclusion lists of those targeted entities that are determined to fulfill the audit request; finalize the inclusion lists of targeted entities that fulfill the audit request to generate streamlined audit results; and output the streamlined audit results to an end user.
2. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein a sourcing module sources and retrieves the ETD from one or more public databases, private databases, and/or both public and private databases.
3. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sourced ETD is evaluated for quality and applicability to the audit request.
4. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sourced ETD comprises disconnected data.
5. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the ETD is selected from the group consisting of entity hierarchical structures, entity legal and organizational configurations, entity operational status, entity legal status/information, trade or purpose of entity, DBA names, addresses, principals, industry or field within which entity operates, tax information, articles of incorporation, SEC filings, insurance information, and combinations thereof.
6. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein in preparing the sourced ETD includes one or more of translating, validating, verifying and/or scrubbing sourced ETD data files to enhance and prevent any erroneous data from entering the entity clustering module.
7. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more entities is selected from the group consisting of businesses, organizations, associations, enterprises, institution, establishment, governmental bodies, operation, structure, system, third-parties, internal analytics, and the like. These databases may be publicly available databases, private databases, or a combination of public and private databases
8. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end user may be an auditor, a state or federal government agency, governmental regulators, a business, a third-party entity, internal analytic departments, or any entity that may request an audit or auditing information.
9. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the entity clustering module is a hybrid unsupervised and supervised machine learning clustering system that builds relationships amongst one or more entities identified within the ET
10. The computing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the hybrid unsupervised and supervised machine learning clustering system is a self-training system that generates clusters of business records using supervised training/seeding approaches.
11. The computing apparatus of claim 9, wherein the supervised training/seeding approaches utilize pairwise N-dimensional cluster similarity functions that enable clustering using regressors.
12. The computing apparatus of claim 1, further including receiving input end user feedback into the entity clustering module to build the ETD relationships.
13. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more entities identified within the ETD comprise a list of potential auditees that may be non-compliant, in non-compliance, and/or be applicable to the audit request.
14. The computing apparatus of claim 13, wherein the one or more entities identified within the ETD may be in violation of state and/or federal laws and regulations.
15. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the entity intelligence module uses predefined rules.
16. The computing apparatus of claim 1, further including building an exclusion lists of other targeted entities that do not fulfill the audit request.
17. The computing apparatus of claim 1, further including performing a final review of the inclusion lists and exclusion lists prior to outputting the inclusion lists.
18. The computing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the end user comprises a requester of the audit, or one or more third-party entities.
19. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable storage mediums having stored thereon executable instructions for providing a streamlined auditing engine to: receive an input audit request via the data interface; source entity type data (ETD) from one or more databases; prepare the ETD for input into an entity clustering module; match the ETD via the entity clustering module to locate linkages within the ETD and build relationships amongst one or more entities identified within the ETD; analyze the ETD relationships via an entity intelligence module to identify and segment targeted entities, from the one or more entities, that are applicable to the audit request; build inclusion lists of those targeted entities that are determined to fulfill the audit request; finalize the inclusion lists of targeted entities that fulfill the audit request to generate streamlined audit results; and output the streamlined audit results to an end user.
20. A computer-implemented method of providing streamlined auditing of an audit request, comprising: receiving an input audit request via the data interface; sourcing entity type data (ETD) from one or more databases; preparing the ETD for input into an entity clustering module; matching the ETD via the entity clustering module to locate linkages within the ETD and build relationships amongst one or more entities identified within the ETD; analyzing the ETD relationships via an entity intelligence module to identify and segment targeted entities, from the one or more entities, that are applicable to the audit request; building inclusion lists of those targeted entities that are determined to fulfill the audit request; finalizing the inclusion lists of targeted entities that fulfill the audit request to generate streamlined audit results; and outputting the streamlined audit results to an end user.
</claims>
</document>
