<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANDRA, MARISWAMY GIRISH
SINHA, RAHUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69846264
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SIGNAL PRE-PROCESSING BASED ON DATA DRIVEN MODELS AND DATA DEPENDENT MODEL TRANSFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates generally to method for signal pre-processing based on a plurality of data driven models and a data dependent model transformation. The method includes (a) receiving, a raw signal as an input; (b) learning, a set of representational basis from the received raw signal, wherein the set of representational basis comprises a plurality of orthonormal vectors; (c) selecting, at least one orthonormal vector from the plurality of orthonormal vectors, (d) determining, a structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms, wherein structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms corresponds to a graph structure represented as a Laplacian matrix (L); (e) integrating, the graph structure as a structure of the set of representational basis to obtain a reconfigured data model; and (f) reconstructing, using the reconfigured data model to obtain a denoised signal, wherein at least one of constraints on a optimization problem corresponds to desired spectral and topological structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method for signal pre-processing based on a plurality of data driven models and a data dependent model transformation, comprising: receiving, a raw signal as an input; learning, a set of representational basis from the received raw signal, wherein the set of representational basis comprises a plurality of orthonormal vectors; selecting, at least one orthonormal vector from the plurality of orthonormal vectors, wherein at least one selection of the orthonormal vector corresponds to a plurality of dictionary atoms, based on a domain dependent time-frequency energy distribution pattern; determining, a structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms, wherein structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms corresponds to a graph structure represented as a Laplacian matrix (L); integrating, the graph structure as a structure of the set of representational basis to obtain a reconfigured data model; and reconstructing, using the reconfigured data model to obtain a denoised signal, wherein at least one of constraints on an optimization problem corresponds to desired spectral and topological structure.
2. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the structure corresponds to a spectral structure and topological structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms and the topological structure of the synthesis coefficients.
3. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a structure of a reconstructed signal is determined based on at least one of (a) time-frequency pattern, (b) graph structured dictionary atoms and combination thereof.
4. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein a penalty factor determines the statistical, spectral and topological structure of reconstructed signal encoded in factor lambda λ2.
5. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the penalty factor controls a tradeoff between approximation capability of the dictionary and structure inducing strength of a graph Laplacian penalty.
6. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein reconstruction of the signal is performed by estimating graph structured coefficients of a graph and time-frequency structured dictionary.
7. The processor implemented method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the denoised signal is validated if ratio of the sum of the major eigenmodes to the sum of the minor eigenmodes is comparable to a domain dependent threshold for clean signals in the domain.
8. A system (100) for signal pre-processing based on a plurality of data driven models and a data dependent model transformation, wherein the system comprising: a memory (102) storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces (106); and one or more hardware processors (104) coupled to the memory (102) via the one or more communication interfaces (106), wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to: receive, a raw signal as an input; learn, a set of representational basis from the received raw signal, wherein the set of representational basis comprises a plurality of orthonormal vectors; select, at least one orthonormal vector from the plurality of orthonormal vectors, wherein at least one selection of the orthonormal vector corresponds to a plurality of dictionary atoms, based on a domain dependent time-frequency energy distribution pattern; determine, a structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms, wherein structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms corresponds to a graph structure represented as a Laplacian matrix (L); integrate, the graph structure as a structure of the set of representational basis to obtain a reconfigured data model; and reconstruct, using the reconfigured data model to obtain a denoised signal, wherein at least one of constraints on an optimization problem to desired spectral and topological structure.
9. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the structure corresponds to a spectral structure and topological structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms and the topological structure of the synthesis coefficients.
10. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein a structure of a reconstructed signal is determined based on at least one of (a) time-frequency pattern, (b) graph structured dictionary atoms and combination thereof.
11. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein a penalty factor determines the statistical, spectral and topological structure of reconstructed signal encoded in factor lambda λ2.
12. The system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the penalty factor controls a tradeoff between approximation capability of the dictionary and structure inducing strength of a graph Laplacian penalty.
13. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein reconstruction of the signal is performed by estimating graph structured coefficients of a graph and time-frequency structured dictionary.
14. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the denoised signal is validated if ratio of the sum of the major eigenmodes to the sum of the minor eigenmodes is comparable to a domain dependent threshold for clean signals in the domain.
15. One or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions, which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause: receiving, a raw signal as an input; learning, a set of representational basis from the received raw signal, wherein the set of representational basis comprises a plurality of orthonormal vectors; selecting, at least one orthonormal vector from the plurality of orthonormal vectors, wherein at least one selection of the orthonormal vector corresponds to a plurality of dictionary atoms, based on a domain dependent time-frequency energy distribution pattern; determining, a structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms, wherein structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms corresponds to a graph structure represented as a Laplacian matrix (L); integrating, the graph structure as a structure of the set of representational basis to obtain a reconfigured data model; and reconstructing, using the reconfigured data model to obtain a denoised signal, wherein at least one of constraints on an optimization problem corresponds to desired spectral and topological structure.
16. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums as claimed in claim 15, wherein the structure corresponds to a spectral structure and topological structure of the plurality of dictionary atoms and the topological structure of the synthesis coefficients.
17. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums as claimed in claim 15, wherein a structure of a reconstructed signal is determined based on at least one of (a) time-frequency pattern, (b) graph structured dictionary atoms, and combination thereof.
18. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums as claimed in claim 15, wherein a penalty factor determines the statistical, spectral and topological structure of reconstructed signal encoded in factor lambda λ2, wherein the penalty factor controls a tradeoff between approximation capability of the dictionary and structure inducing strength of a graph Laplacian penalty.
19. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums as claimed in claim 15, wherein reconstruction of the signal is performed by estimating graph structured coefficients of a graph and time-frequency structured dictionary.
20. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable information storage mediums as claimed in claim 15, wherein the denoised signal is validated if ratio of the sum of the major eigenmodes to the sum of the minor eigenmodes is comparable to a domain dependent threshold for clean signals in the domain.
</claims>
</document>
