<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04N21/442,H04N21/466
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, JULIE
LOPATECKI, JASON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946832
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UTILIZING COMBINED OUTPUTS OF A PLURALITY OF RECURRENT NEURAL NETWORKS TO GENERATE MEDIA CONSUMPTION PREDICTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and non-transitory computer readable storage media are disclosed for utilizing a plurality of recurrent neural networks to generate media consumption predictions and providing media content to a target audience. For example, the disclosed system can train a plurality of long short-term memory neural networks for a plurality of users based on historical media consumption data over a plurality of time periods. In one or more embodiments, the disclosed system identifies a target audience including a subset of users and the corresponding neural networks. The disclosed system can then utilize the neural networks of the subset of users to generate a plurality of predictions for a future time period for the users. In some embodiments, the disclosed system then combines the predictions for the users to generate a media consumption prediction for the target audience for the future time period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital media environment for distributing digital media, a computer-implemented method of utilizing recurrent neural networks to predict media consumption comprising: identifying a target audience for providing media via a distribution channel; identifying a plurality of historical media consumption sequences corresponding to a plurality of users; and a step for generating a media consumption prediction for the target audience utilizing a plurality of long short-term memory neural networks corresponding to the plurality of users.
2. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a ground truth consumption value for a first user corresponding to a time period for the media consumption prediction for the target audience, wherein the target audience comprises the first user; identifying a first long short-term memory neural network corresponding to the first user from the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks; and updating a state of the first long short-term memory neural networks based on the ground truth consumption value.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of historical media consumption sequences corresponding to the plurality of users comprise, for each user of the plurality of users, a media consumption sequence indicating media content consumed by the user during a plurality of sequential time periods.
4. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a computer system to: identify a plurality of historical media consumption sequences corresponding to a plurality of users; train a plurality of long short-term memory neural networks based on the historical media consumption sequences of the plurality of users; identify a subset of users from the plurality of users corresponding to a target audience and a subset of long short-term memory neural networks corresponding to the subset of users from the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks; and generate a media consumption prediction for the target audience utilizing the subset of long short-term memory neural networks.
5. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: obtain a ground truth consumption value for a first user corresponding to a time period for the media consumption prediction for the target audience, wherein the subset of users and the target audience comprise the first user; identify a first long short-term memory neural network corresponding to the first user from the subset of long short-term memory neural networks; and update a state of the first long short-term memory neural network corresponding to the first user based on the ground truth consumption value.
6. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 5, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to update the state of the first long short-term memory neural network based on the ground truth consumption value after a predetermined time period of a plurality of predetermined time periods prior to a training stage for the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks.
7. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to generate a plurality of media consumption predictions for the target audience for a plurality of sequential future time periods utilizing the subset of long short-term memory neural networks.
8. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to generate the media consumption prediction for the target audience cause the computer system to: generate, utilizing each long short-term memory neural network of the subset of long short-term memory neural networks, an individual media consumption prediction for a user of the subset of users; and combine a plurality of individual media consumption predictions for the subset of users to generate the media consumption prediction for the target audience.
9. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, wherein: the instructions that cause the computer system to identify the subset of users cause the computer system to identify users that have a characteristic corresponding to the target audience; and the subset of long short-term memory neural networks corresponding to the subset of users comprise long short-term memory neural networks trained using historical media consumption sequences for the subset of users.
10. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer system to: identify a second subset of users from the plurality of users corresponding to a second target audience and a second subset of long short-term memory neural networks corresponding to the second subset of users from the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks; and generate a second media consumption prediction for the second target audience utilizing the second subset of long short-term memory neural networks.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to train the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks cause the computer system to train each long short-term memory neural network of the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks based on a historical media consumption sequence for a unique user.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium as recited in claim 4, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to train the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks cause the computer system to train each long short-term memory neural network of the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks based on historical media consumption sequences for a unique group of users.
13. In a digital media environment for distributing digital media, a system for utilizing neural networks to predict media consumption comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer memory comprising: a historical media consumption sequence for each user of a plurality of users; and instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to generate a media consumption prediction for a target audience based on a plurality of recurrent neural networks by: for each user of the plurality of users, generating a recurrent neural network corresponding to the user, the recurrent neural network being trained on the historical media consumption sequence of the user; identifying a subset of users from the plurality of users corresponding to a target audience and a subset of recurrent neural networks corresponding to the subset of users from the plurality of recurrent neural networks; and generating the media consumption prediction for the target audience based on a plurality of media consumption predictions generated utilizing the subset of recurrent neural networks.
14. The system as recited in claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: obtain ground truth consumption values for the subset of users corresponding to a time period for the media consumption prediction for the target audience; and update states of the subset of recurrent neural networks based on the ground truth consumption values.
15. The system as recited in claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to generate a plurality of media consumption predictions for the target audience for a plurality of sequential future time periods utilizing the subset of recurrent neural networks.
16. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the system to generate the media consumption prediction for the target audience cause the system to: generate, utilizing each recurrent neural network of the subset of recurrent neural networks, an individual media consumption prediction for a user of the subset of users; and combine a plurality of individual media consumption predictions for the subset of users to generate the media consumption prediction for the target audience.
17. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein: the instructions that cause the system to identify the subset of users cause the system to identify users that have a characteristic corresponding to the target audience; and the subset of recurrent neural networks corresponding to the subset of users comprise long short-term memory neural networks trained using historical media consumption sequences for the subset of users.
18. The system as recited in claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: identify a second subset of users from the plurality of users corresponding to a second target audience and a second subset of recurrent neural networks corresponding to the second subset of users from the plurality of recurrent neural networks; and generate a second media consumption prediction for the second target audience utilizing the second subset of recurrent neural networks.
19. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the system to train the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks cause the system to train each recurrent neural network of the plurality of recurrent neural networks based on a historical media consumption sequence for a separate individual user.
20. The system as recited in claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the system to train the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks cause the computer system to train each long short-term memory neural network of the plurality of long short-term memory neural networks based on historical media consumption sequences for a separate group of users.
</claims>
</document>
