<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, JOSHUA S.
FREED, ANDREW R.
BROWN, JASON M.
SMITH, AARON T.
BRINK, RYAN S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228675
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RETRAINING A CONVERSATION SYSTEM BASED ON NEGATIVE FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
A method retrains a cognitive interaction information system. One or more processors monitors an interactive communication between a user and the cognitive interactive information system. The processor(s) identifies an incorrect answer returned by the cognitive interactive information system to a question asked by the user; reevaluates the question utilizing alternative intent classifications to form alternative answers; and presents the alternative answers to the user. The processor(s) receive a selection from the alternative answers from the user; updates processing rules to generate updated processing rules that are based on the selection; and retrains the cognitive interaction information system based on the updated processing rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: monitoring an interactive communication between a user and a cognitive interactive information system; identifying an incorrect answer returned by the cognitive interactive information system to a question asked by the user; reevaluating the question utilizing alternative intent classifications to form alternative answers; presenting the alternative answers to the user; receiving a selection from the alternative answers from the user; updating processing rules to generate updated processing rules that are based on the selection; and retraining the cognitive interaction information system based on the updated processing rules.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating vectors that represent a ground truth utterance and the question; comparing the vectors to create a vector score; creating a confidence score for the question asked by the user based on the vector score; and updating the processing rules based on the vector score.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: providing a user interface (UI) that enables the user to adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user; and responsive to the user utilizing the UI with selections that adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user, providing answers based on the selections.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a training answer is associated with a ground truth, and wherein the method further comprises: comparing the training answer to the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers; determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within a predetermined range; and in response to determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within the predetermined range, returning the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers to the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the cognitive interactive information system is a neural network.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting to a subject matter expert the alternative intent classifications, a context of the question, and the updated processing rules that were used by the cognitive interactive information system to find the answer that was selected by the user from the alternative answers.
7. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: monitoring an interactive communication between a user and a cognitive interactive information system; identifying an incorrect answer returned by the cognitive interactive information system to a question asked by the user; reevaluating the question utilizing alternative intent classifications to form alternative answers; presenting the alternative answers to the user; receiving a selection from the alternative answers from the user; updating processing rules to generate updated processing rules that are based on the selection; and retraining the cognitive interaction information system based on the updated processing rules.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: generating vectors that represent a ground truth utterance and the question; comparing the vectors to create a vector score; creating a confidence score for the question asked by the user based on the vector score; and updating the processing rules based on the vector score.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface (UI) that enables the user to adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user; and responsive to the user utilizing the UI with selections that adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user, providing answers based on the selections.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein a training answer is associated with a ground truth, and wherein the method further comprises: comparing the training answer to the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers; determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within a predetermined range; and in response to determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within the predetermined range, returning the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers to the user.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the cognitive interactive information system is a neural network.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: presenting to a subject matter expert the alternative intent classifications, a context of the question, and the updated processing rules that were used by the cognitive interactive information system to find the answer that was selected by the user from the alternative answers.
13. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
14. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: monitoring an interactive communication between a user and a cognitive interactive information system; identifying an incorrect answer returned by the cognitive interactive information system to a question asked by the user; reevaluating the question utilizing alternative intent classifications to form alternative answers; presenting the alternative answers to the user; receiving a selection from the alternative answers from the user; updating processing rules to generate updated processing rules that are based on the selection; and retraining the cognitive interaction information system based on the updated processing rules.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: generating vectors that represent a ground truth utterance and the question; comparing the vectors to create a vector score; creating a confidence score for the question asked by the user based on the vector score; and updating the processing rules based on the vector score.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: providing a user interface (UI) that enables the user to adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user; and responsive to the user utilizing the UI with selections that adjust the alternative intent classifications and the confidence score for the question asked by the user, providing answers based on the selections.
17. The computer system of claim 14, wherein a training answer is associated with a ground truth, and wherein the method further comprises: comparing the training answer to the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers; determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within a predetermined range; and in response to determining that the training answer matches the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers within the predetermined range, returning the answer selected by the user from the alternative answers to the user.
18. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the cognitive interactive information system is a neural network.
19. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: presenting to a subject matter expert the alternative intent classifications, a context of the question, and the updated processing rules that were used by the cognitive interactive information system to find the answer that was selected by the user from the alternative answers.
20. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the stored program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
