<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/20,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRIVASTAVA, ANUBHAV
VAISHNAVA, PARAG
KESAVAN, SANKARAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456996
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTION OF FILM SUCCESS-QUOTIENT
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing device and method for prediction of a film's success-quotient is provided. The information processing device receives a film script for a film for production, identifies a plurality of scenes in the film script based on a textual analysis of the film script, and computes a first score for each scene of the film script based on genre information for plurality of scenes. The information processing device further identifies a list of characters in the film script, selects an actor for roleplay of each character of the list of characters and computes a second score that indicates a suitability of the selected actor for the roleplay. The second score is computed based on a machine learning model that is trained on datapoints of a historical film database. The information processing device predicts the success-quotient for the film based on the computed first score and the computed second score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing device, comprising: circuitry configured to: identify a plurality of scenes in a film script based on textual analysis of the film script which is associated with a film for production; compute a first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes based on genre information for the identified plurality of scenes; identify a list of characters in the film script based on the textual analysis of the film script; select an actor for a roleplay of each character in the identified list of characters based on a historical film database; compute, for the selected actor, a second score that indicates a suitability of the selected actor for the roleplay, wherein the second score is computed based on a machine learning model that is trained on datapoints of the historical film database; and predict a success-quotient for the film based on the computed first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes and the computed second score for the selected actor.
2. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: identify a distribution of the identified list of characters across the identified plurality of scenes based on the textual analysis of the film script; and compute the first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes further based on the identified distribution.
3. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to determine a depiction of a celebratory event or a seasonal event in one or more scenes of the identified plurality of scenes, based on the textual analysis of the film script.
4. The information processing device according to claim 3, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: compute a third score for the determined depiction based on the historical film database; and predict the success-quotient for the film further based on the computed third score for the determined depiction in the one or more scenes.
5. The information processing device according to claim 3, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: estimate a release date for the film based on the determined depiction of the celebratory event or the seasonal event; compute a fourth score for the estimated release date; and predict the success-quotient for the film further based on the computed fourth score.
6. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: select, from the historical film database, a list of primary crew members; and compute a fifth score for each primary crew member in the list of primary crew members, wherein the computed fifth score indicates the suitability of a corresponding primary crew member for a job in the production of the film, and the fifth score is computed based on the machine learning model that is trained on the datapoints of the historical film database.
7. The information processing device according to claim 6, wherein the circuitry is configured to predict the success-quotient for the film further based on the computed fifth score for each primary crew member in the selected list of primary crew members.
8. The information processing device according to claim 7, wherein the circuitry is further configured to recommend the selected list of primary crew members as a production crew for the film based on a determination that the predicted success-quotient is greater than a threshold value.
9. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: extract a set of tonal features based on the textual analysis of the film script; compute a first tonal metric for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes based on the extracted set of tonality features; compute a second tonal metric for a first character of the identified list of characters, wherein the second tonal metric depicts a variation in tonal levels associated with a role of the first characters throughout the identified plurality of scenes of the film script; compute a third tonal metric corresponding to a variation of the tonal levels of the film script; and predict the success-quotient for the film further based on the computed first tonal metric, the computed second tonal metric, or the computer third tonal metric.
10. The information processing device according to claim 9, wherein the tonal levels comprises one or more of guilt, joy, sadness, shame, disgust, anger, and fear.
11. The information processing device according to claim 9, wherein the extracted set of tonal features corresponds to one or more of a narration or a state of a character, a text capitalization, an exclamation, a rhythm, a cadence, or an inflection in the film script.
12. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: identify one or more lead characters in the identified list of characters based on the textual analysis of the film script; and compute the second score for the selected actor further based on a determination that the selection of the actor is for the roleplay of one of the identified one or more lead characters.
13. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: identify a set of production variables comprising a number of scene locations, a number of scenes, and a number of characters in the film script based on the textual analysis of the film script; determine a budget and a filming duration for the production of the film; and predict the success-quotient for the film further based on a first weight for the identified set of production variables, a second weight for the determined filming duration, and a third weight for the determined budget.
14. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to recommend the selected actor as a cast member for the film based on a determination that the predicted success-quotient is greater than a threshold value.
15. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: estimate a popularity-measure of a context or a genre of at least one scene of the identified plurality of scenes based on analysis of social media activities of users and past activities of the users for past films; and predict the success-quotient for the film further based on the estimated popularity-measure.
16. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to select a different actor for the roleplay of each character in the identified list of characters based on a determination that the predicted success-quotient is below a threshold value.
17. The information processing device according to claim 1, further comprising the machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model is a deep neural network (DNN) comprising a plurality of layers.
18. The information processing device according to claim 17, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: input a dataset comprising the genre information, the identified plurality of scenes, and the identified list of characters to an input layer of the plurality of layers, wherein an intermediate layer of the DNN is configured to: compute the first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes; and compute the second score for the actor selected for the roleplay of each character in the identified list of characters, wherein an output layer of the DNN is configured to predict the success-quotient for the film based on the computed first score and the computed second score.
19. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: extract, from the historical film database, scoring information comprising a success-quotient for each past film of a plurality of past films; determine a first set of genre-wise scores for each past film of the plurality of past films based on the extracted scoring information; normalize the determined first set of genre-wise scores; collect statistical information comprising sales information, ratings information, and social media footprints for each past film of the plurality of past films; compute a score value for each of the collected sales information, the films ratings information, and the social media footprints; validate the normalized first set of genre-wise scores for each past film of the plurality of past films based on the computed score values for a respective past film of the plurality of past films; and generate a clustering model as an industry-wide baseline model for films based on application of a distance-based clustering method on validated set of genre-wise scores for each past film of the plurality of past films, wherein the generated clustering model includes the plurality of past films as a plurality of datapoint clusters which is clustered around a corresponding plurality of cluster centroids.
20. The information processing device according to claim 19, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: determine a second set of genre-wise scores for the film script based on the predicted success-quotient; determine, based on the determined second set of genre-wise scores, whether the film script corresponds to a datapoint in a first datapoint cluster of the generated clustering model or corresponds to an outlier datapoint; and generate a comparison metric for the film script based on the determination.
21. The information processing device according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: Identify a group of words which depicting emotions in a scene of the identified plurality of scenes of the film script; classify the identified group of words based on a genre associated with the scene of film script or a tonality of dialogues in the scene; and recommend, based on the classification, a color combination for objects to be included in the scene of the film to produced based on the film script.
22. A method, comprising: identifying a plurality of scenes in a film script based on textual analysis of the film script associated with a film for production; computing a first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes based on genre information for the identified plurality of scenes; identifying a list of characters in the film script based on the textual analysis of the film script; selecting an actor for roleplay of each character in the identified list of characters based on a historical film database; computing, for the selected actor, a second score that indicates a suitability of the selected actor for the roleplay, wherein the second score is computed based on a machine learning model that is trained on datapoints of the historical film database; and predicting a success-quotient for the film based on the computed first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes and the computed second score for the selected actor.
23. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon, computer implemented instructions that when executed by an information processing device, causes the information processing device to execute operations, the operations comprising: identifying a plurality of scenes in a film script based on textual analysis of the film script associated with a film for production; computing a first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes based on genre information for the identified plurality of scenes; identifying a list of characters in the film script based on the textual analysis of the film script; selecting an actor for roleplay of each character in the identified list of characters based on a historical film database; computing, for the selected actor, a second score that indicates a suitability of the selected actor for the roleplay, wherein the second score is computed based on a machine learning model that is trained on datapoints of the historical film database; and predicting a success-quotient for the film based on the computed first score for each scene of the identified plurality of scenes and the computed second score for the selected actor.
</claims>
</document>
