<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T15/00,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TMRW FOUNDATION IP & HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
YERLI, CEVAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71108486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VIRTUALLY ATTACHING APPLICATIONS TO AND ENABLING INTERACTIONS WITH DYNAMIC OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and chip, which may be used for attaching digital reality applications to and enabling interactions with dynamic objects in a virtual world. The system comprises a server comprising a persistent virtual world system storing virtual replicas of static and dynamic real world objects. A client device connected to the server via a network enables interaction with one or more digital reality applications virtually attached to dynamic objects of the real world. Chips installed on dynamic objects of the real world store dynamic object data comprising at least geo-location data of the host dynamic objects. Combining static object data stored in the server and the dynamic object data generates a persistent virtual world system that can be streamed to the client device for interaction with users while accurately tracking the dynamic objects and client devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more servers containing a persistent virtual world system comprising virtual replicas of static objects and dynamic objects of the real world; and chips installed on host dynamic objects of the real world comprising a memory and processor, the memory including dynamic object data and instructions that, when executed by the processor, trigger the processor to perform one or more actions on the respective host dynamic object, the dynamic object data comprising at least geo-location data of the host dynamic objects, wherein the persistent virtual world system includes a combination of data from the one or more servers and data from the chips, and wherein as a client device approaches a host dynamic object associated with a digital reality application, the digital reality application retrieves the physical position and orientation of the client device and triggers the client device to retrieve and output application data from the one or more servers.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the dynamic object data includes a 3D data structure configured to generate a 3D interactive shape.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the 3D interactive shape is generated by extrapolating or interpolating shape data from one or more of the chips, the client device, or a combination of shape data from the one or more chips and the client device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the chips are configured to retrieve additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications or application data from the one or more servers, wherein the chips are configured to combine the additional data with the geo-location data stored in the chips and stream the combined data to the client device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the dynamic object data comprises physics data, a 3D data structure, one or more applications or application data, and the geo-location data and is configured to be retrieved by the client device directly from the chip and combined by the client device with static object data from the one or more servers into the persistent virtual world system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, or one or more applications virtually attached to the dynamic objects are stored in the one or more servers, wherein the chip includes a reference to one or more locations of the additional data in the one or more servers, and wherein the one or more servers are configured to merge the geo-location data from the chip and the additional data into the persistent virtual world system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, one or more applications or application data, and geo-location data are stored in the chip and are transferred to the one or more servers, wherein the one or more servers are configured to merge the additional data and static object data into the persistent virtual world system.
8. A chip comprising: a memory storing dynamic object data and instructions of a host dynamic object in a persistent virtual world system, the dynamic object data comprising at least geo-location data of the host dynamic object; a processor configured to execute the instructions in the memory that, when executed, cause the host dynamic object to be virtually or physically manipulated; and one or more sensors configured to provide at least the geo-location data of the host dynamic object, wherein the dynamic object data and data stored in a server are combinable to generate content in the persistent virtual world system to be streamed to client devices interacting with applications.
9. The chip of claim 8, wherein the dynamic object data includes a 3D data structure configured to generate a 3D interactive shape.
10. The chip of claim 9, wherein the 3D interactive shape is generated by extrapolating or interpolating shape data from the chip, or one or more of the client devices, or a combination of shape data from the chip and the one or more client devices.
11. The chip of claim 8, wherein the chip is configured to retrieve additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications or application data from the server, to combine the additional data with the geo-location data stored in the chip, and to stream the combined data to the client devices.
12. The chip of claim 8, wherein the chip is configured to directly provide additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications or application data along with the geo-location data to the client devices.
13. The chip of claim 8, wherein additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications virtually attached to the host dynamic object are stored in the server, wherein the server is configured to merge the geo-location data from the chip and additional data into the persistent virtual world system.
14. The chip of claim 8, wherein additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, one or more applications or application data, are stored in the chip along with the geo-location data and are transferred to the server, wherein the server is configured to merge the additional data and static object data into the persistent virtual world system.
15. A method comprising: creating, via a replica editor stored in a server, virtual replicas of static objects from the real world, the virtual replicas including at least location and space settings, physics settings, and a 3D data structure; connecting one or more chips to host dynamic objects, the one or more chips comprising a memory and processor, the memory including dynamic object data and instructions that, when executed by the processor, trigger one or more actions by the respective host dynamic object, the dynamic object data comprising at least geo-location data of the host dynamic objects; virtually attaching one or more applications to the host dynamic objects; and generating a combination of data from the server and data from the chip in a persistent virtual world system.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the dynamic object data further comprises a 3D data structure configured to generate a 3D interactive shape.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: retrieving from the server by the one or more chips, additional dynamic object data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications or application data; combining the additional dynamic object data with the geo-location data from the chip; and streaming the combined data directly to one or more client devices.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising retrieving, by the client device, data comprising a 3D data structure, application data, and the geo-location data from the chip; receiving static object data from the server; and combining the data retrieved from the chip and the received static object data into the persistent virtual world system.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising storing in the server additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications virtually attached to the dynamic objects; retrieving, by the server, the geo-location data from the chip; and merging the geo-location data from the chip and the additional data into the persistent virtual world system.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising storing in the chip additional data comprising physics data, a 3D data structure, and one or more applications or application data, along with the geo-location data; transferring the additional data and the geo-location data to the server; and merging the additional data and static object data into the persistent virtual world system.
</claims>
</document>
