<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32,G01C21/36,G06T3/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
VISWANATHAN, ANIRUDH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68965687
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT FOR GENERATING AN OVERHEAD VIEW OF AN ENVIRONMENT FROM A PERSPECTIVE IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus and computer program product are provided for warping a perspective image into the ground plane using a homography transformation to estimate a bird's eye view in real time. Methods may include: receiving first sensor data from a first vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, where the first sensor data includes perspective image data of the environment, and where the first sensor data includes a location and a heading; retrieving a satellite image associated with the location and heading; applying a deep neural network to regress a bird's eye view image from the perspective image data; applying a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to the regressed bird's eye view image using the satellite image as a target of the GAN to obtain a stabilized bird's eye view image; and deriving values of a homography matrix between the sensor data and the established bird's eye view image.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one non-transitory memory including computer program code instructions, the computer program code instructions configured to, when executed, cause the apparatus to at least: receive first sensor data from a first vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the first sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment and wherein the first sensor data comprises a location and a heading; retrieve a satellite image associated with the location and heading; apply a deep neural network to regress a bird's eye view image from the perspective image data; apply a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to the regressed bird's eye view image using the satellite image as a target of the GAN to obtain a stabilized bird's eye view image; derive values of a homography matrix between the sensor data and the stabilized bird's eye view image; and store the derived values of the homography matrix.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: receive second sensor data from a second vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment from a perspective of the second vehicle; apply a homography matrix including the stored, derived values to the sensor data in substantially real time to warp the perspective image data into a ground plane along which the vehicle is traveling; generate a bird's eye view of the environment of the vehicle from the perspective image data; and provide for presentation of the bird's eye view of the environment on a display.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the apparatus is further caused to augment satellite image data of the environment with the bird's eye view of the environment.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the bird's eye view of the environment includes dynamic objects not found in a satellite image of the environment.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein causing the apparatus to retrieve a satellite image associated with the location and heading comprises causing the apparatus to identify the location in a satellite image map database and to identify a portion of the satellite image corresponding to the heading.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is further caused to receive second sensor data comprising a perspective image of an environment and warp the perspective image with the homography matrix including the derived values to obtain a bird's eye view image.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the apparatus is further caused to repair a satellite image using the obtained bird's eye view image.
8. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable program code portions stored therein, the computer-executable program code portions comprising program code instructions configured to: receive first sensor data from a first vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the first sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment and wherein the first sensor data comprises a location and a heading; retrieve a satellite image associated with the location and heading; apply a deep neural network to regress a bird's eye view image from the perspective image data; apply a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to the regressed bird's eye view image using the satellite image as a target of the GAN to obtain a stabilized bird's eye view image; derive values of a homography matrix between the sensor data and the stabilized bird's eye view image; and store the derived values of the homography matrix.
9. The computer program product of claim 1, further comprising program code instructions to: receive second sensor data from a second vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment from a perspective of the second vehicle; apply a homography matrix including the stored, derived values to the sensor data in substantially real time to warp the perspective image data into a ground plane along which the vehicle is traveling; generate a bird's eye view of the environment of the vehicle from the perspective image data; and provide for presentation of the bird's eye view of the environment on a display.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising program code instructions to augment satellite image data of the environment with the bird's eye view of the environment.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the bird's eye view of the environment includes dynamic objects not found in a satellite image of the environment.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program code instructions to retrieve a satellite image associated with the location and heading comprises program code instructions to identify the location in a satellite image map database and to identify a portion of the satellite image corresponding to the heading.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program code instructions to receive second sensor data comprising a perspective image of an environment and warp the perspective image with the homography matrix including the derived values to obtain a bird's eye view image.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising program code instructions to repair a satellite image using the obtained bird's eye view image.
15. A method comprising: receiving first sensor data from a first vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the first sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment and wherein the first sensor data comprises a location and a heading; retrieving a satellite image associated with the location and heading; applying a deep neural network to regress a bird's eye view image from the perspective image data; applying a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) to the regressed bird's eye view image using the satellite image as a target of the GAN to obtain a stabilized bird's eye view image; deriving values of a homography matrix between the sensor data and the stabilized bird's eye view image; and storing the derived values of the homography matrix.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving second sensor data from a second vehicle traveling along a road segment in an environment, wherein the sensor data comprises perspective image data of the environment from a perspective of the second vehicle; applying a homography matrix including the stored, derived values to the sensor data in substantially real time to warp the perspective image data into a ground plane along which the vehicle is traveling; generating a bird's eye view of the environment of the vehicle from the perspective image data; and providing for presentation of the bird's eye view of the environment on a display.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising augmenting satellite image data of the environment with the bird's eye view of the environment.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the bird's eye view of the environment includes dynamic objects not found in a satellite image of the environment.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein retrieving a satellite image associated with the location and heading comprises identifying the location in a satellite image map database and identifying a portion of the satellite image corresponding to the heading.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising receiving second sensor data comprising a perspective image of an environment and warping the perspective image with the homography matrix including the derived values to obtain a bird's eye view image.
</claims>
</document>
