<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/0484,A61N2/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANFORD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU WEI
ETKIN, AMIT
KELLER, COREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62627098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED ARTIFACT REJECTION FOR TRANSCRANIAL MAGNETIC STIMULATION ELECTROENCEPHALOGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for machine learning based artifact rejection is provided. The method may include applying a machine learning model to identify artefactual independent components in transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data collected during a transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure. Clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data is generated by removing, from the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, the artefactual independent components. Real-time adjustments to parameters of the transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure may be performed based on the clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data. Related systems and articles of manufacture, including computer program products, are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: applying a machine learning model to identify one or more artefactual independent components comprising transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data collected during a transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure; generating clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data by at least removing, from the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, the one or more artefactual independent components; and performing, based at least on the clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, adjustments to one or more parameters of the transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure.
2. 2-35. (canceled)
36. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including program code which when executed by the at least one processor results in operations comprising: applying a machine learning model to identify one or more artefactual independent components comprising transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data collected during a transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure; generating clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data by at least removing, from the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, the one or more artefactual independent components; and performing, based at least on the clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, real-time adjustments to one or more parameters of the transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure.
37. 37-39. (canceled)
40. The system of claim 36, further comprising: preprocessing the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data; and decomposing the preprocessed transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data into a plurality of independent components, each of the plurality of independent components comprising one of a plurality of non-Gaussian signals forming a multivariate signal corresponding to the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data.
41. 41-46. (canceled)
47. The system of claim 40, wherein the preprocessing comprises: epoching the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data and/or re-referencing the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data with respect to a common average.
48. The system of claim 39, further comprising: generating a feature vector corresponding to an independent component from a plurality of independent components comprising the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data.
49. (canceled)
50. (canceled)
51. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a spatial range feature corresponding to an absolute difference between a maximum and minimum voltage differential present in a scalp map associated with the independent component.
52. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a regional activation feature corresponding to an absolute value of an average voltage differential recorded within one or more specific regions of a scalp map associated with the independent component, and wherein the one or more specific regions include a central region, a frontal region, an occipital region, and/or temporal region of a brain.
53. (canceled)
54. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a border activation feature corresponding to whether an electrode recording the highest voltage differential in a scalp map associated with the independent component is located on a border of the scalp map.
55. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a horizontal eye movement feature corresponding to a result of a comparison between a scalp map associated with the independent component and a template scalp map associated with horizontal eye movement, the result of the comparison comprising an absolute correlation coefficient indicative of a degree of correspondence between the scalp map of the independent component and the template scalp map for horizontal eye movement.
56. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes an eye blinking feature corresponding to a result of a comparison between a scalp map associated with the independent component and a template scalp map associated with eye blinking movements, the result of the comparison comprising an absolute correlation coefficient indicative of a degree of correspondence between the scalp map of the independent component and the template scalp map for eye blinking movements, and wherein the eye blinking movement comprises transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked eye blinking movements and/or voluntary eye blinking movements.
57. (canceled)
58. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes an electrocardiogram artifact feature corresponding to a result of a comparison between a scalp map associated with the independent component and a plurality of template scalp maps associated with cardiac contractions, the electrocardiogram artifact feature being a value indicating whether a maximum correlation coefficient of the comparison between the scalp map for the independent component and the plurality of template scalp maps exceeds a threshold value.
59. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes an electrocardiogram temporal feature corresponding to whether a number of peaks present in the independent component exceeds a threshold value, wherein the independent component is decomposed by at least applying a Daubechies least-asymmetric wavelet, and wherein the independent component is decomposed to enable peak detection to be performed in a wavelet domain instead of a time domain.
60. (canceled)
61. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a source activity features corresponding to a complexity of a source pattern associated with the independent component.
62. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a maximum magnitude feature corresponding to a maximum voltage differential that is recorded across a plurality of trials of transcranial magnetic stimuli that are administered during the transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure, and wherein each trial of transcranial magnetic stimuli comprises an administration of a single transcranial magnetic stimulation pulse, a pair of transcranial magnetic stimulation pulses, and/or a train of transcranial magnetic stimulation pulses.
63. (canceled)
64. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a short-time magnitude feature corresponding to one or more transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked potential peaks present in the independent component, and wherein the one or more transcranial magnetic stimulation-evoked potential peaks are identified by at least determining a mean magnitude of voltage differentials recorded over a plurality of time windows.
65. (canceled)
66. (canceled)
67. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a skewness feature corresponding to a measure of asymmetry in a probability distribution of transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data.
68. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a band-power feature corresponding to a band-power for a theta band between 4 Hertz and 7 Hertz, an alpha band between 8 Hertz and 12 Hertz, a beta band between 13 Hertz and 30 Hertz, and/or a gamma band between 31 Hertz and 50 Hertz.
69. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a first electroencephalogram spectral feature corresponding to a mean fit error between an actual spectrum of the independent component and a fitted shape of an electroencephalogram spectrum within an alpha band between 8 Hertz and 12 Hertz.
70. The system of claim 48, wherein the feature vector includes a first electroencephalogram spectral feature corresponding to a value of a parameter b in the following equation:
71. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including program code, which when executed by at least one data processor, cause operations comprising: applying a machine learning model to identify one or more artefactual independent components comprising transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data collected during a transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure; generating clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data by at least removing, from the transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, the one or more artefactual independent components; and performing, based at least on the clean transcranial magnetic stimulation electroencephalogram data, real-time adjustments to one or more parameters of the transcranial magnetic stimulation procedure.
72. (canceled)
73. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
