<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K31/00,B60T7/22,B60W30/16,B60W40/105,G01S13/524,G01S13/60,G01S13/86
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
Akella, Abishek Krishna
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044326
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING A TARGET VEHICLE SPEED
</title>

<abstract>
A machine-learned model is trained using human driving data to determine a desired vehicle speed based from a set of driving-environment characteristics. An autonomous-vehicle control system obtains, from cameras, sensors, services, and data sources, a variety of sensor data. The sensor data is used to determine a set of characteristics for the driving-environment for the autonomous vehicle. Using the machine-learned model, the autonomous-vehicle control system determines a human-like desired speed for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the determined characteristics of the driving-environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from a sensor on an autonomous vehicle, sensor data relating to a driving environment of the autonomous vehicle; determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, driving-environment characteristics of the driving environment; inputting the driving-environment characteristics into a machine-learned model trained to determine a speed using training data collected from vehicles driven by human drivers; receiving, from the machine-learned model, a target speed for the autonomous vehicle; determining based at least in part on the sensor data and the target speed, a trajectory for the autonomous vehicle; and controlling the autonomous vehicle in accordance with the trajectory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the driving-environment characteristics include statutory speed limit, lane width, prevailing traffic speed, or oncoming traffic speed.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a speed limit based at least in part on performance limitations of the autonomous vehicle; and reducing the target speed in accordance with the speed limit.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor includes one or more of a camera, an ultrasonic sensor, a radar sensor, a LIDAR sensor, a thermometer, a moisture sensor, a humidity sensor, or an ambient light sensor, and wherein the machine-learned model comprises a neural network having three or fewer fully connected layers.
5. A system, comprising one or more processors and physical memory storing computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: determine, based at least in part on sensor data obtained using a sensor on the system, a set of conditions associated with a driving environment of a vehicle; provide the set of conditions to a machine-learned model to produce a target speed, the machine-learned model trained using training data generated from vehicles driven by human drivers; determine based at least in part on the sensor data and the target speed, a trajectory for the vehicle; and provide the trajectory to be used to control the vehicle.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the set of conditions comprise: weather associated with the driving environment, a number of additional vehicles in proximity to the vehicle, one or more extents associated with the additional vehicles, one or more relative velocities associated with the additional vehicles, and a statutory speed limit associated with the driving environment determined based at least in part on map data associated with the driving environment.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include instructions that, if executed, cause the one or more processors to: determine, from the sensor data, that an emergency vehicle is present; and wherein the set of conditions includes presence of the emergency vehicle.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include instructions that, if executed, cause the one or more processors to: determine, from the sensor data, a measure of wheel slip; and wherein the set of conditions includes a measure of vehicle traction.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include instructions that, if executed, cause the one or more processors to: determine, from the sensor data, that a pedestrian is present by determining that the pedestrian is within a threshold distance of a path of the vehicle; and wherein the set of conditions includes presence of a pedestrian.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the set of conditions further comprises an occlusion grid that identifies areas around the vehicle that are not sensed by the vehicle.
11. The system of claim 5, wherein the computer-executable instructions further include instructions that, if executed, cause the one or more processors to: determine that the target speed is within a threshold amount of a previous target speed; and control the vehicle based at least in part on determining that the target speed is within the threshold amount of the previous target speed.
12. The system of claim 5, wherein the training data includes a plurality of data samples, each sample in the plurality of data samples including a value for each condition in the set of conditions and an associated speed driven by a human driver.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining sensor data from one or more sensors on a vehicle; determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, one or more parameters representative of characteristics of an environment through which the vehicle travels; determining, based at least in part on the sensor data and the parameters, a target speed using a network controlled by a machine-learned model, the machine-learned model trained using training data generated from vehicles driven by human drivers; determining based at least in part on the sensor data and the target speed, a trajectory for the vehicle; and providing the trajectory to be used to control the vehicle.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the network is a three-layer neural network of fully connected layers.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the one or more parameters comprise a quantity of vehicles traveling in the same direction, a quantity of vehicles traveling in the opposite direction, a number of parked vehicles, and map data associated with the environment.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the machine-learned model produces a linear acceleration limit for the vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the training data excludes driving scenarios where a speed of the vehicle is zero or a path of the vehicle is impeded by another vehicle, object, or traffic junction.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise limiting the speed of the vehicle to the lower of the target speed and a speed limit associated with the environment as determined based at least in part on map data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the target speed is produces by processing a sequence of target speeds through a low-pass filter.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the executable instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: identify a vehicle type of the vehicle to the machine-learned model; and wherein the one or more parameters comprise the vehicle type.
</claims>
</document>
