<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F25B49/00,F25D29/00,G05B13/02,G05B23/02,G08B21/18,G10L21/0232,G10L25/51,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
EOM, YONG HWAN
HAN, CHOLOK
HAN, JUN SOO
JEONG, JUNSEONG
YANG, YOUNGHUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67950818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT INSPECTION DEVICE AND REFRIGERATOR WITH THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligent inspection device is disclosed. The intelligent inspection device comprising a sound collection collecting a first operation sound generated in a refrigerator and storing the collected first operating sound a reference sound set-up comparing the first operation sound stored in the sound collection with a preset normal sound of the refrigerator, learning a result of the comparison to set a reference sound, and setting a reference sound range based on the set reference sound and a processor collecting, through the sound collection, a second operation sound generated in the refrigerator after the reference sound range has been set, comparing the second operation sound with the reference sound range, and inspecting whether the refrigerator fails based on the result of the comparison. According to the intelligent inspection device or the artificial intelligent refrigerator of the present disclosure, one or more of a user terminal, and a server of the present disclosure may be associated with an artificial intelligence module, a drone ((Unmanned Aerial Vehicle, UAV), a robot, an AR (Augmented Reality) device, a VR (Virtual Reality) device, a device associated with 5G services, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a memory: and one or more processors configured to: store in the memory a first operation sound generated by a refrigerator; compare the first operation sound with a preset normal sound of the refrigerator; set a reference sound as a result of the compare; set a reference sound range based on the set reference sound; store in the memory a second operation sound generated by the refrigerator after the set the reference sound range; compare the second operation sound with the reference sound range; and determine a state of the refrigerator based on a result of the compare the second operation sound with the reference sound range.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to remove noise from the first operation sound or the second operation sound.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: extract a frequency characteristic of the first operation sound or the second operation sound; and remove the noise from the first operation sound or the second operation sound based on the extracted frequency characteristic.
4. The device of claim 2, further comprising a communication unit configured to: communicate with a designated server through a network; transmit the determined state of the refrigerator to the server; and feed back corresponding determination from the server.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the first operation sound of the refrigerator is a sound collected for a predetermined period of time after the refrigerator is installed first time or re-installed at a place.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the first operation sound of the refrigerator is at least one of: a trembling sound generated from a machine room in the refrigerator; a sound generated by a compressor mounted in the refrigerator; a sound of a refrigerant flowing through a pipe mounted in the refrigerator; or a sound generated by a fan mounted in the refrigerator.
7. The device of claim 3, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to set the frequency characteristic differently according to a distance from the refrigerator.
8. The device of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the refrigerator is in a failure state when the second operation sound is out of the reference sound range; and transmit information regarding the determined failure state to the server via the communication unit and feed back corresponding determination.
9. The device of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the refrigerator is in a failure state when the second operation sound is out of the reference sound range; and execute a failure inspection program to display information regarding the determined failure state.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: transmit the information regarding the failure state to the server via the communication unit; and feed back the corresponding determination from the server when no result is retrieved from the failure inspection program.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive, from a network, downlink control information (DCI) to be used for scheduling transmission of information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator; and transmit the information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to the network based on the DCI.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: perform an initial access procedure with the network based on a synchronization signal block (SSB); and transmit information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to the network through a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH), and wherein demodulation reference signals (DM-RS) of the SSB and the PUSCH are quasi co-located (QCLed) for QCL type D.
13. The device of claim 11, further comprising a communication unit, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: control the communication unit to transmit the information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to an artificial intelligent (AI) processor in the network; and control the communication unit to receive AI processing information from the AI processor, and wherein the AI processing information comprises information indicating that a failure state or an abnormal state of the refrigerator is determined.
14. A refrigerator comprising: a main body including a fridge compartment and a freezer compartment; and an intelligent inspection device mounted on the main body and comprising a memory and one or more processors configured to: store in the memory a first operation sound generated by a refrigerator; compare the first operation sound with a preset normal sound of the refrigerator; set a reference sound as a result of the compare; set a reference sound range based on the set reference sound; store in the memory a second operation sound generated by the refrigerator after the set the reference sound range; compare the second operation sound with the reference sound range; and determine a state of the refrigerator based on a result of the compare the second operation sound with the reference sound range.
15. The refrigerator of claim 14, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to remove noise from the first operation sound or the second operation sound.
16. The refrigerator of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: extract a frequency characteristic of the first operation sound or the second operation sound; and remove the noise from the first operation sound or the second operation sound based on the extracted frequency characteristic.
17. The refrigerator of claim 15, wherein the intelligent inspection device further comprises a communication unit configured to: communicate with a designated server through a network; transmit the determined state of the refrigerator to the server; and feed back corresponding determination from the server.
18. The refrigerator of claim 14, wherein the first operation sound of the refrigerator is a sound collected for a predetermined period time after the refrigerator is installed first time or re-installed at a place.
19. The refrigerator of claim 14, wherein the first operation sound of the refrigerator is at least one of: a trembling sound generated from a machine room in the refrigerator; a sound generated by a compressor mounted in the refrigerator; a sound of a refrigerant flowing through a pipe mounted in the refrigerator; or a sound generated by a fan mounted in the refrigerator.
20. The refrigerator of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to set the frequency characteristic differently according to a distance from the refrigerator.
21. The refrigerator of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the refrigerator is in a failure state when the second operation sound is out of the reference sound range; and transmit information regarding the determined failure state to the server via the communication unit and feed back corresponding determination.
22. The refrigerator of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the refrigerator is in a failure state when the second operation sound is out of the reference sound range; and execute a failure inspection program to display information regarding the determined failure state.
23. The refrigerator of claim 22, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: transmit the information regarding the failure state to the server via the communication unit; and feed back the corresponding determination from the server when no result is retrieved from the failure inspection program.
24. The refrigerator of claim 14, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive, from a network, downlink control information (DCI) to be used for scheduling transmission of information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator; and transmit the information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to the network based on the DCI.
25. The refrigerator of claim 24, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: perform an initial access procedure with the network based on a synchronization signal block (SSB); and transmit information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to the network through a physical uplink shared channel (PUSCH), and wherein demodulation reference signals (DM-RS) of the SSB and the PUSCH are quasi co-located (QCLed) for QCL type D.
26. The refrigerator of claim 24, wherein the intelligent inspection device further comprises a transceiver and the one or more processors are further configured to: control the transceiver to transmit the information regarding the determined state of the refrigerator to an artificial intelligent (AI) processor in the network; and control the transceiver to receive AI processing information from the AI processor, and wherein the AI processing information comprises information indicating that a failure state or an abnormality state of the refrigerator is determined.
27. The refrigerator of claim 14, wherein the second operation sound is collected to be stored when a note-on function of the refrigerator is turned on.
</claims>
</document>
