<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/48,B60W30/06,G06Q10/02,G06Q50/30,G08G1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU, YUMENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140775
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING A PARKING FACILITY
</title>

<abstract>
System, methods, and other embodiments described herein relate to controlling a parking facility. In one embodiment, a method of controlling a parking facility control system is disclosed. In one approach, the method includes receiving a parking request for a vehicle. The parking request includes an identifier and a pickup time. The method includes selecting an initial parking space at the parking facility for the vehicle based, at least in part, on the identifier and the pickup time. The method includes transmitting a parking command to the vehicle. The parking command identifies the initial parking space and causes the vehicle to autonomously navigate to and park in the initial parking space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A parking facility control system for a parking facility, comprising one or more processors; and a memory communicably connected to the one or more processors and storing: a control module including one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to select an initial parking space for a vehicle based, at least in part, on a parking request indicating an identifier and a pickup time, the identifier being associated with a user profile; and a communication module including one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to transmit a parking command to the vehicle, the parking command identifying the initial parking space and causing the vehicle to navigate to and park in the initial parking space, wherein the control module further includes instructions to adjust a parking score associated with the user profile based on whether the vehicle is removed from the parking facility within a time range of the pickup time.
2. The parking facility control system of claim 1, wherein the parking command includes information that indicates a location of the initial parking space in the parking facility.
3. (canceled)
4. The parking facility control system of claim 1, wherein the control module further includes instructions to determine a parking price based at least on the pickup time and the parking score, and the communication module further includes instructions to transmit the parking price to a user associated with the identifier and prompt the user to confirm acceptance of the parking price.
5. The parking facility control system of claim 1, wherein the control module further includes instructions that categorize parking spaces into at least a first parking area and a second parking area in the parking facility, the first parking area being closer to an entry point of the parking facility than the second parking area, and further includes instructions to change selection of the initial parking space from a parking space in the first parking area to a parking space in the second parking area when the parking score is below a threshold score value.
6. The parking facility control system of claim 1, wherein the communication module includes instructions to, at a set amount of time prior to expiration of the pickup time, transmit a notification to a user associated with the identifier, prompting the user to transmit a confirmation of a pending pick-up or a request for additional parking time.
7. The parking facility control system of claim 1, wherein the control module further includes instructions that categorize a set of parking spaces in the parking facility as a pickup area, and the communication module includes instructions to, at a set time before the pickup time, transmit a second parking command to the vehicle that causes the vehicle to park in the pickup area.
8. The parking facility control system of claim 7, wherein: the control module further includes instructions that categorize parking spaces into at least a first parking area and a second parking area in the parking facility, the first parking area being closer to an entry point of the parking facility than the second parking area and the initial parking space being in the first parking area, and when the vehicle remains in the pickup area for longer than a wait-time amount, the communication module includes instructions to transmit a third parking command to the vehicle that causes the vehicle to navigate to and park in a secondary parking space located in the second parking area.
9. The parking facility control system of claim 8, wherein a length of the wait-time amount is based at least in part on a parking score associated with the user profile.
10. A method of controlling a parking facility, comprising receiving a parking request for a vehicle, the parking request including an identifier and a pickup time, the identifier being associated with a user profile; selecting an initial parking space at the parking facility for the vehicle based, at least in part, on the identifier and the pickup time; transmitting a parking command to the vehicle, the parking command identifying the initial parking space and causing the vehicle to autonomously navigate to and park in the initial parking space; and adjusting a parking score associated with the user profile based on whether the vehicle is removed from the parking facility within a time range of the pickup time.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the parking command includes information that indicates a location of the initial parking space in the parking facility.
12. (canceled)
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining a parking price based at least on the pickup time and the parking score; and transmitting the parking price to a user associated with the identifier to prompt the user to confirm acceptance of the parking price.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: categorizing parking spaces into at least a first parking area and a second parking area in the parking facility, the first parking area being closer to an entry point of the parking facility than the second parking area; changing selection of the initial parking space from a parking space in the first parking area to a parking space in the second parking area when the parking score is below a threshold score value.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising, at a set amount of time prior to expiration of the pickup time, transmitting a notification to a user associated with the identifier that prompts the user to transmit a confirmation of a pending pick-up or a request for additional parking time.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: categorizing a set of parking spaces in the parking facility as a pickup area; and at a set time before the pickup time, transmitting a second parking command to the vehicle that causes the vehicle to park in the pickup area.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: categorizing parking spaces into at least a first parking area and a second parking area in the parking facility, the first parking area being closer to an entry point of the parking facility than the second parking area and the initial parking space being in the first parking area; and when the vehicle remains in the pickup area for longer than a wait-time amount, transmitting a third parking command to the vehicle that causes the vehicle to navigate to and park in a secondary parking space located in the second parking area.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein a length of the wait-time amount is based at least in part on a parking score associated with the user profile.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for controlling a parking facility and that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a parking request for a vehicle, the parking request including an identifier and a pickup time, the identifier being associated with a user profile; select an initial parking space at the parking facility for the vehicle based, at least in part, on the identifier and the pickup time; transmit a parking command to the vehicle, the parking command identifying the initial parking space and causing the vehicle to autonomously navigate to and park in the initial parking space; and adjust a parking score associated with the user profile based on whether the vehicle is removed from the parking facility within a time range of the pickup time.
20. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
