<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06N20/00,H04M3/42,H04M3/436
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESELAERS, THOMAS
FEUZ, SANDRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65363363
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING AND/OR PRIORITIZING PRE-CALL CONTENT FOR RENDERING WHEN AWAITING ACCEPTANCE OF AN INCOMING CALL
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations set forth herein relate to generating a pre-call analysis for one or more users that are receiving and/or initializing a call with one or more other users, and/or prioritizing pre-call content according to whether security-related value was gleaned from provisioning certain pre-call content. One or more machine learning models can be employed for determining the pre-call content to be cached and/or presented prior to a user accepting a call from another user. Feedback provided before, during, and/or after the call can be used as a basis from which to prioritize certain content and/or sources of content when generating pre-call content for a subsequent call. Other information, such as contextual data (e.g., calendar entries, available peripheral devices, location, etc.) corresponding to the previous call and/or the subsequent call, can also be used as a basis from which to provide a pre-call analysis.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: generating first pre-call content for provisioning at an interface of a computing device when a user is receiving, via the computing device, an incoming call from another user, wherein the first pre-call content is based on data that resulted from the user engaging in an activity that is associated with the other user; determining, subsequent to generating the first content data, that the user has engaged in another activity, wherein the other activity is also associated with the other user and resulted in other data being generated; generating, based at least on the other data that resulted from the user engaging in the activity, second pre-call content in furtherance of provisioning content at the interface of the computing device when the user is receiving, via the computing device, the incoming call from the other user; determining, subsequent to generating the second pre-call content, that the other user has initialized a call to the user via a wireless communication protocol; when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the call: causing, in response to determining that the other user has initialized the call to the other, the computing device to present the first pre-call content and/or the second pre-call content at the interface of the computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the first pre-call content includes: providing, based on the data, an input to a trained machine learning model, wherein the first pre-call content includes a synopsis of the data and the synopsis is generated based on an output generated based on processing the input using the trained machine learning model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the second pre-call content includes: processing the other data using the trained machine learning model to generate another output based on the other data, wherein the second pre-call content includes another synopsis of the other data and is generated based on the other output of the trained machine learning model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first pre-call content corresponds to a first assigned priority and the second pre-call content corresponds to a second assigned priority, and wherein the activity and the other activity are temporally distinct activities.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the call: determining, based on the first assigned priority and the second assigned priority, whether to cause the interface of the computing device to prioritize a position of the first pre-call content over another position of the second pre-call content.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface of the computing device includes an audio interface and causing the computing device to present the first pre-call content and/or the second pre-call content at the interface of the computing device includes: causing the interface to render audio corresponding to the first pre-call content and/or the second pre-call content when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the call.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the other user initialized the call via another computing device, and the method further comprises: when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the call: determining, in response to determining that the other user has initialized the call to the other, whether to cause the interface of the computing device to present any pre-call content.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity corresponds to the user interacting with an application and the other activity corresponds to the user interacting with another application that is different from the application.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, subsequent to causing the computing device to present the first pre-call content and/or the second pre-call content at the interface of the computing device, that the user has elected to not accept the call; and causing, based on determining that the user elected not to accept the call, third pre-call content to be generated, wherein the third pre-call content is presented via the interface of the computing device when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of a subsequent call from the other user.
10. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: determining that a first call between a user and another user has been initialized via a wireless communication protocol between a computing device and another computing device; when the computing device is waiting for the user and/or the other user to indicate acceptance of the first call: causing pre-call content to be presented at an interface of the computing device and/or an interface of another computing device, wherein the pre-call content is determined based on data that is generated using one or more trained machine learning models; determining, subsequent to determining that the first call was initialized between the user and the other user, dialog content of the first call, wherein the dialog content is based on one or more natural language inputs provided by the user and/or the other user during the first call; determining, based on the dialog content, whether the pre-call content included at least one correlation to the dialog content; determining, subsequent to determining whether the pre-call content included at least one correlation to the dialog content, that a second call between the user and the other user has been initialized; and when the computing device and/or the other computing device is waiting for the user and/or the other user to indicate acceptance of the second call: causing the interface of the computing device, and/or the interface of the other computing device, to present or omit the pre-call content based on whether the pre-call content included the at least one correlation to the dialog content.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: when the pre-call content is determined to include at least the one correlation to the dialog content: causing the one or more trained machine learning models to be further trained according to feedback data indicating a positive correlation between dialog content and the pre-call content; and when the pre-call content is determined to not include at least one correlation to the dialog content: causing the one or more trained machine learning models to be further trained according to other feedback data indicating a negative correlation between dialog content and the pre-call content.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more trained machine learning models are stored on the computing device.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: when the computing device and/or the other computing device is waiting for the user and/or the other user to indicate acceptance of the second call, and the pre-call content is presented at the interface of the computing device, and/or the other interface of the other computing device: causing the pre-call content at the interface of the computing device, and/or the other interface of the other computing device, to be arranged based on whether the pre-call content included the at least one correlation to the dialog content.
14. A method implemented by one or more processors, the method comprising: determining content for provisioning at an interface of a computing device when a user is receiving an incoming call from another user, wherein the content includes first content data, which corresponds to a first assigned priority, and second content data, which corresponds to a second assigned priority, wherein the first assigned priority and the second assigned priority indicate propriety of the content data, at least relative to the incoming call; determining, subsequent to determining the content for provisioning at the interface of the computing device and in response to a wireless transmission initialized by the other user via another computing device, that the other user has initialized a call to the user via a wireless communication protocol; when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the call: causing, in response to determining that the other user has initialized the call, the interface of the computing device to present the first content data and the second content data, wherein the first content data is prioritized over the second content data at least based on the first assigned priority and the second assigned priority; determining, based on the provisioning of the first content data, engagement data that characterizes an amount of engagement exhibited by the user when the interface of the computing device provided the first content data, and another amount of engagement exhibited by the user when the interface of the computing device provided the second content data; determining, based on the engagement data, a third assigned priority for the first content data and a fourth assigned priority for the second content data, wherein the third assigned priority and the fourth assigned priority indicate a different propriety of the content data, at least relative to a subsequent incoming call from the other user; determining, subsequent to determining the third assigned priority and the fourth assigned priority, that the other user has initialized the subsequent incoming call to the user; and when the computing device is waiting for the user to indicate acceptance of the subsequent call: causing, in response to determining that the other user has initialized the subsequent incoming call to the user, the interface of the computing device to present or omit the first content data and/or the second content data, at least based on the third assigned priority and the fourth assigned priority.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the engagement data is based on one or more gestures received at the interface of the computing device when the interface of the computing device is providing the first content data and the second content data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the amount of engagement exhibited by the user when the interface of the computing device provided the first content data is based on a first gesture of the one or more gestures, and the other amount of engagement exhibited by the user when the interface of the computing device provided the second content data is based on a second gesture of the one or more gestures.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining that the first gesture caused the first content data to be provided at the interface of the computing device for a longer period of time than the second gesture caused the second content data to be provided at the interface of the computing device, wherein the third assigned priority is prioritized over the fourth assigned priority at least based on the first content of data being provided at the interface of the computing device for a longer period of time than the second content data.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: accessing, before determining the content for provisioning to the user, data that at least characterizes one or more features of a context of a user, wherein the content is determined based on the one or more features of the context of the user.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the third assigned priority for the first content data and the fourth assigned priority for the second content data includes: providing, to one or more trained machine learning models, input data that is based on the first content data and the second content data, and generating, based on output data generated by processing the input data using the one or more trained machine learning models, the third assigned priority and the fourth assigned priority.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: causing the one or more trained machine learning models to be further trained based on the engagement data and the other engagement data.
21. 21-23. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
