<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED SHABBIR
GUTIERREZ, CHRISTOPHER
JULIATO, MARCIO
SASTRY, MANOJ
Wang, Qian
Lesi, Vuk
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74066081
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING VOLTAGE FINGERPRINTING FOR GROUND TRUTH AND CONTROLLED MESSAGE ERROR FOR MESSAGE AND ECU MAPPING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods to establish ground truth for an intrusion detection system using machine learning models to identify an electronic control unit transmitting a message on a communication bus, such as an in-vehicle network bus, are provided. Voltage signatures for overlapping message identification (MID) numbers are collapsed and trained on a single ECU label.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing apparatus comprising: a processor; and memory storing a machine learning (ML) model and instructions, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to: train the ML model to infer one of a plurality of electronic control unit (ECU) labels from voltage signatures associated with a plurality of message identifications (MIDs) of messages transmitted on a bus; determine whether a first one of the plurality of MIDs overlap at least a second one of the plurality of MIDs based on an overlap threshold; collapse the first one of the plurality of MIDs and the at least the second one of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate an updated mapping between MIDs and ECU labels responsive to a determination that first one of the plurality of MIDs overlaps at least the second one of the plurality of MIDs; and train the ML model on the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
2. The computing apparatus of claim 1, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to determine whether an accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to an accuracy threshold.
3. The computing apparatus of claim 2, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to: increase the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is not less than or equal to the accuracy threshold; determine whether additional ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; collapse the additional overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that additional ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and train the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
4. The computing apparatus of claim 2, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to determine whether all MIDs are included in updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to the accuracy threshold.
5. The computing apparatus of claim 4, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to: determine whether the additional ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that all the MIDs are not included in the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels; collapse the additional overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and train the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
6. The computing apparatus of claim 4, the instructions when executed by the processor, configure the apparatus to deploy the trained ML model in an intrusion detection system (IDS) to establish ground truth for the intrusion detection system responsive to a determination that all MIDs are included in the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
7. The computing apparatus of claim 2, wherein the ML model is a supervised classifier.
8. The computing apparatus of claim 2, wherein the bus is an in-vehicle network.
9. The computing apparatus of claim 2, wherein the accuracy is a recall of the ML model, an F1 score of the ML model, or a precision of the ML model.
10. A method, comprising: training a machine learning (ML) model to infer one of a plurality of electronic control unit (ECU) labels from voltage signatures associated with a plurality of message identifications (MIDs) of messages transmitted on a bus; determining whether ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on an overlap threshold; collapsing overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate an updated mapping between MIDs and ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap; and training the ML model on the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising determining whether an accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to an accuracy threshold.
12. The method of claim 11, comprising: increasing the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is not less than or equal to the accuracy threshold; determining whether ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; collapsing the overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and training the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
13. The method of claim 11, comprising determining whether all MIDs are included in updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to the accuracy threshold.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising: determining whether any one of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that all the MIDs are not included in the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels; collapsing overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and training the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
15. The method of claim 13, comprising training the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels to increase an accuracy of the ML model.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the ML model is a supervised classifier.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the bus is an in-vehicle network.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the accuracy is a recall of the ML model, an F1 score of the ML model, or a precision of the ML model.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a computer, cause the computer to: train a machine learning (ML) model to infer one of a plurality of electronic control unit (ECU) labels from voltage signatures associated with a plurality of message identifications (MIDs) of messages transmitted on a bus; determine whether ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on an overlap threshold; collapse overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate an updated mapping between MIDs and ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap; and train the ML model on the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, comprising instructions that when executed by the computer, cause the computer to determine whether an accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to an accuracy threshold.
21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, comprising instructions that when executed by the computer, cause the computer to: increase the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is not less than or equal to the accuracy threshold; determine whether ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; collapse the overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and train the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
22. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, comprising instructions that when executed by the computer, cause the computer to determine whether all MIDs are included in updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that the accuracy of the ML model is less than or equal to the accuracy threshold.
23. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 22, comprising instructions that when executed by the computer, cause the computer to: determine whether any one of the plurality of MIDs overlap based on the overlap threshold responsive to a determination that all the MIDs are not included in the updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels; collapse overlapping ones of the plurality of MIDs into a one of the plurality of ECU labels to generate a second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels responsive to a determination that ones of the MIDs overlap based on the increased overlap threshold; and train the ML model on the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
24. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 22, comprising instructions that when executed by the computer, cause the computer to deploy the trained ML model in an intrusion detection system (IDS) to establish ground truth for the intrusion detection system responsive to a determination that all MIDs are included in the second updated mapping between the plurality MIDs and the plurality of ECU labels.
25. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the bus is an in-vehicle network.
</claims>
</document>
