<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01C1/00,B07C5/342,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SeedX Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
AYAL, SHARON
GEDALYAHO VAISBERGER, David
SHNIBERG, Mordekhay
CARMON, Elad
ASHKENAZY, Sarel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65003432
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SORTING OF SEEDS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for sorting seeds are disclosed, as well as batches of seeds that have been sorted using the systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for sorting of seeds, comprising: at least one hardware processor executing a code, the code comprising: code for inputting into at least one neural network, at least one image including a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature, the at least one image captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein the at least one visual feature extracted from an image of one of the plurality of seeds is statistically similar to corresponding at least one visual feature extracted from another image of another seed of the plurality of seeds; code for computing by the at least one neural network, an indication of at least one classification category of a plurality of classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined, for each of the plurality of seeds, wherein the at least one neural network classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into at least two different classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined; wherein the at least one neural network is trained according to a training dataset comprising a plurality of training images of a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature captured by the at least one imaging sensor, wherein each respective training image of the plurality of training images is associated with an indication of at least one classification category of a plurality of classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined of at least one seed depicted in the respective training image; and code for generating according to the indication of at least one classification category, instructions for execution by a sorting controller of an automated sorting device for automated sorting of seeds.
2. 2-3. (canceled)
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the similar extractable at least one visual feature is selected from the group consisting of: a hand-crafted feature, at least one size dimension of the at least one seed, color of the at least one seed, shape of the at least one seed, and texture of the at least one seed.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image includes a plurality of seeds that differ from one another within a tolerance range by a single feature that cannot be extracted by the at least one visual feature, and further comprising computing clusters according to a respective binary classification category computed for each seed, wherein the respective binary classification category is indicative of the respective seed including the single feature or not including the single feature, and wherein the instructions include instructions for sorting the seeds according to the computed clusters.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the binary classification category indicative of the single feature is selected from the group consisting of: self pollinated or hybrid pollinated, stress-resistant or non-stress resistant, genetically modified or non-genetically modified, isogenic seeds that differ by the single feature, and seeds of a shared mother plant with different paternal pollen.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one classification category comprises at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) a non-visual category that cannot be manually determined based on visual inspection of the at least one seed, (ii) a seed variant, (iii) not directly correlated to DNA markers, (iv) a yield-related trait, (v) a monogenetic trait, (vi) a pleiotropic trait, (vii) a polygenetic trait, a (viii) plant quality related trait, (ix) a genotype, and (ix) at least one phenotypical property predicted to develop in the at least one seed at a future time interval relative to a time interval when the at least one image is captured.
8. 8-18. (canceled)
19. The system according to claim 1, wherein the indication of the at least one classification category associated with respective plurality of training images of the training dataset comprises a seed variant determined according to a parent plant.
20. The system according to claim 1, wherein the indication of the at least one classification category associated with respective plurality of training images of the training dataset is based on a DNA test destructive to the seed from which it was obtained.
21. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one neural network computes an embedding for the at least one image, and wherein the at least one classification category is determined according to an annotation of an identified at least one similar embedded image from the training dataset storing embeddings of training images, the at least one similar embedded image identified according to a requirement of a similarity distance between the embedding of the at least one image and embedding of the training images.
22. The system according to claim 21, wherein the embedding is computed by an internal layer of the trained at least one neural network selected as an embedding layer.
23. The system according to claim 21, wherein the embedding is stored as a vector of a predefined length, wherein the similarity distance is computed as a distance between a vector storing the embedding of the at least one image and a plurality of vectors each storing embedding of respective training images.
24. The system according to claim 21, wherein the similarity distance is computed between the embedding of the at least one image and a cluster of embeddings of a plurality of training images each associated with a same at least one classification category.
25. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image comprises a plurality of images including a plurality of seeds, and further comprising code for clustering the plurality of images according to respective classification categories, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for sorting the seeds corresponding to the plurality of images according to respective classification categories, and at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (I) wherein the seeds are at least one of: (i) isogenic, (ii) from a same mother but different paternal pollen and the clusters are computed according to the different paternal pollen, (iii) the seeds include self-pollinated and hybrid seeds and the clusters are computed according to self-pollinated and hybrid indications, and (II) wherein the clusters of different classification categories are at least one of: (i) created for seeds are grown under same environmental conditions, (ii) are created for seeds are grown at a same growing season, (iii) are created for seeds are grown at a same geographical location, (iv) are created for seeds having identical physical parameters within a tolerance range.
26. 26-40. (canceled)
41. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image comprises a plurality of images including a plurality of seeds of different classification categories, wherein the at least one neural network computes an embedding for each of the plurality of images, wherein the embedding of the plurality of images are clustered by clusterization code, and wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for sorting the seeds according to corresponding clusters, and at least one member selected from the group consisting of: (i) wherein the clusters are computed such that each embedded image member of each respective cluster is at least a threshold distance away from another cluster, (ii) wherein the clusters are computed such that each embedded image member of each respective cluster is less than a threshold distance away from every other member of the same respective cluster, (iii) wherein an intra-cluster distance computed between embeddings of a same cluster is less than an inter-cluster distance computed between embeddings of different clusters, (iv) wherein seeds corresponding to embeddings located above an abnormality distance threshold from at least one of: another embedding, and a cluster, are denoted as abnormal and clustered into an abnormal cluster, wherein seeds denoted as abnormal are assigned a new classification category according to classification categories assigned to at least two image embeddings and/or at least two clusters in proximity to the embedding of the seed denoted as abnormal, wherein the new classification category is computed according to relative distances to the at least two image embeddings and/or at least two clusters in proximity to the embedding of the seed denoted as abnormal, (v) wherein at least one statistical value is computed for each cluster, and wherein a certain seed is denoted as abnormal when the embedding of the image of the certain seed is statistically different from all other clusters, (vi) wherein at least one statistical value is computed for each cluster, and wherein a certain seed is assigned a certain classification category of a certain cluster when the embedding of the image of the certain seed is statistically similar to at least one statistical value of the certain cluster, (vii) further comprising providing an image of a target seed, computing the embedding of the target seed by the at least one neural network, and selecting a sub-set of the plurality of image embeddings according to image embedding located less than a target distance threshold away from the embedding of the target seed, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for selecting seeds corresponding to the sub-set of the plurality of image embeddings, (viii) further comprising providing an image of a target seed, computing the embedding of the target seed by the at least one neural network, clustering the plurality of image embeddings and the embedding of the target seed, and selecting a cluster that includes the embedding of the target seed, wherein the instructions for execution by the sorting controller comprise instructions for selecting seeds corresponding to the selected cluster.
42. 42-53. (canceled)
54. A system for training at least one neural network for sorting of seeds, comprising: at least one hardware processor executing a code, the code comprising: code for accessing a training dataset comprising a plurality of training images of a plurality of seeds which have statistically similar extractable at least one visual feature captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein each respective training image of the plurality of training images is associated with an indication of at least one classification category of a plurality of classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined of at least one seed depicted in the respective training image, wherein the at least one visual feature extracted from an image of one of a plurality of seeds is statistically similar to corresponding at least one visual feature extracted from another image of another seed of the plurality of seeds; and code for training at least one neural network according to the training dataset, the at least one neural network trained for computing an indication of at least one classification category according to at least one target image comprising at least one seed captured by at least one imaging sensor, wherein the at least one neural network classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into at least two different classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined, wherein the indication of at least one classification category of a plurality of classification categories for which visual features are not explicitly defined, of the at least one target image is computed at least according to weights of the at least one trained neural network.
55. A container comprising a plurality of seeds, wherein said plurality of seeds are sorted according to the system of claim 1.
56. The container of claim 55, wherein said plurality of seeds are identical with respect to a trait, a microbiome or a genome.
57. The container of claim 55, wherein at least one member is selected from the group consisting of: (i) wherein said plurality of seeds comprises more than 1000 seeds, and (ii) wherein said plurality of seeds weights more than 100 grams.
58. (canceled)
59. The container of claim 55, wherein said trait is selected from the group consisting of increased nitrogen use efficiency, increased abiotic stress tolerance, increased biotic stress tolerance, increased biomass, increased growth rate, increased vigor, increased yield and increased fiber yield or quality, and increased oil.
60. A method of growing a crop comprising seeding the seeds of the container of claim 55, thereby growing the crop.
61. 61-62. (canceled)
63. The system of claim 1, wherein a statistical classifier trained for extraction of the at least one visual feature classifies the plurality of seeds which have similar extractable at least one visual feature into a same classification category for which visual features are explicitly defined.
</claims>
</document>
