<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G16B45/00,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VUNO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYUN-JUN
LEE, YEHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60300482
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETERMINING WHETHER EXAMINEE IS INFECTED BY MICROOGANISM AND APPARATUS USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a method for determining whether an examinee is infected by microorganism, and a determination apparatus using the same. Specifically, the determination apparatus according to the present invention obtains an microphotographed image of a biological sample of the examinee; receives the obtained microphotographed image and generates analysis information on the microorganism based on a deep learning model of the examinee; visualize the generated analysis information to provide it, so as to perform at least one of (i) a process of supporting a remote reading on whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not, and (ii) a process of supporting a user of the computing apparatus to read whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not; and provides a final result as its result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining whether an examinee is infected by microorganism, comprising: (a) obtaining an microphotographed image of a biological sample of the examinee by a computing apparatus or supporting another apparatus that operates in conjunction with the computing apparatus to obtain the image; (b) receiving the obtained microphotographed image and generating analysis information on the microorganism based on a deep learning model of the microorganism infection disease by the computing apparatus, or supporting the another apparatus to generate the analysis information; (c) visualizing the generated analysis information to provide it by the computing apparatus, or supporting the another apparatus to provide the analysis information, so as to perform at least one of (i) a process of supporting a remote reading on whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not, and (ii) a process of supporting a user of the computing apparatus to read whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not; and (d) providing a final result as a result of performing the step (c) by the computing apparatus.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (e) making an update for the deep learning model based on the final result by the computing apparatus.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein in the step (a), the microphotographed image is obtained by a whole scan shot of a shooting module that operates in conjunction with the computing apparatus.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein in the step (b), the analysis information includes an existence probability and an existence position of the microorganism.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the step (b) includes the steps of: (b1) automatically searching for a microorganism-like suspicious object, which is an object that can be doubted as the microorganism, based on the deep learning model, by the computing apparatus; and (b2) performing a process of calculating a probability that the microorganism-like suspicious object is microorganism, as the existence probability of the microorganism, and a process of generating a position of the microorganism-like suspicious object as the existence position of the microorganism, by the computing apparatus.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein in the step (c), the visualization of the analysis information is performed by labeling the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information in the microphotographed image and displaying the analysis information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein in the step (c), the result of the remote reading is received and obtained from at least one expert after the analysis information is visualized and provided.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample has been already dyed before obtaining the microphotographed image of the biological sample.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the microorganism is Trichomonas.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological sample is a vaginal fluid sample of the examinee.
11. A computer program comprising instructions that are implemented to cause a computing apparatus to perform the method of claim 1.
12. An apparatus for determining whether an examinee is infected by microorganism, comprising: a communication unit configured to obtain an microphotographed image of a biological sample of the examinee; and a processor configured to receive the obtained microphotographed image and generate analysis information on the microorganism based on a deep learning model of the microorganism infection disease, or support another apparatus that operates in conjunction with the communication unit to generate the analysis information, wherein the processor is configured to: visualize the generated analysis information to provide it through a predetermined display unit, or support the another apparatus to provide the analysis information, so as to perform at least one of (i) a process of supporting a remote reading on whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not, and (ii) a process to support a user of the computing apparatus to read whether the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information exists or not; and provide a final result as a result of performing the processes (i) and (ii).
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to make an update for the deep learning model based on the final result.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the microphotographed image is obtained by a whole scan shot of a shooting module that operates in conjunction with the communication unit.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the analysis information includes an existence probability and an existence position of the microorganism.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to generate the analysis information or to support the another apparatus to generate the analysis information, and wherein the processor is configured to: automatically search for a microorganism-like suspicious object, which is an object that can be doubted as the microorganism, based on the deep learning model; and perform a process of calculating a probability that the microorganism-like suspicious object is microorganism as the existence probability of the microorganism, and a process of generating a position of the microorganism-like suspicious object as the existence position of the microorganism.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the visualization of the analysis information is performed by labelling the microorganism corresponding to the analysis information in the microphotographed image and displaying the analysis information.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the result of the remote reading is received from at least one expert and obtained by the communication unit after the analysis information is visualized and provided.
</claims>
</document>
