<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UATC
</assignee>

<inventors>
VENKATADRI, ARUN DRAVID KAIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326982
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Generating Artificial Scenarios for an Autonomous Vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for vehicle simulation are provided. A method can include obtaining generator input data indicative of one or more parameter values, and inputting the generator input data into a machine-learned generator model that is configured to generate artificial data based at least in part on the generator input data. The artificial data can include data representing an artificial scenario associated with an autonomous vehicle. The method can include obtaining an output of the machine-learned generator model that can include the artificial data, and inputting the artificial data into a machine-learned discriminator model to generate authenticity data representing an authenticity associated with the artificial scenario of the artificial data. The method can include obtaining an output of the machine-learned discriminator model that can include the authenticity data. The method can include selecting the artificial scenario in the artificial data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for vehicle simulation, the method comprising: obtaining, by a computing system that includes one or more computing devices, generator input data indicative of one or more parameter values; inputting, by the computing system, the generator input data into a machine-learned generator model that is configured to generate artificial data based at least in part on the generator input data, wherein the artificial data comprises data representing an artificial scenario associated with an autonomous vehicle; obtaining an output of the machine-learned generator model, by the computing system, in response to inputting the generator input data into the machine-learned generator model, wherein the output comprises the artificial data; inputting, by the computing system, the artificial data into a machine-learned discriminator model to generate authenticity data representing an authenticity associated with the artificial scenario of the artificial data; obtaining an output of the machine-learned discriminator model, by the computing system, in response to inputting the artificial data into the machine-learned discriminator model, the output including the authenticity data; and selecting, by the computing system, the artificial scenario in the artificial data when the authenticity associated with the artificial scenario is greater than an authenticity threshold value.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the artificial scenario is indicative of an artificial autonomous vehicle environment and/or artificial autonomous vehicle log data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: inputting, by the computing system, existing data into the machine-learned generator model, the existing data representing a previously generated artificial scenario and an associated authenticity, wherein the artificial scenario is generated based at least in part on the existing data representing the previously generated artificial scenario and the associated authenticity.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the artificial scenario that is based at least in part on the existing data is generated such that it is more likely to be determined as authentic compared to the previously generated artificial scenario.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the machine-learned generator model is configured to adjust one or more parameter values associated with the previously generated artificial scenario to generate the artificial scenario that is based at least in part on the existing data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generator input data is indicative of the one or more parameter values and one or more variance values associated with the one or more parameter values, and the machine-learned generator model is configured to generate the artificial data based at least in part on the one or more parameter values and the one or more associated variance values.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learned generator model and the machine-learned discriminator model are trained based at least in part on real-world data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learned generator model is configured to generate the artificial data based at least in part on previously generated authenticity data associated with the generator input data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: initiating, by the computing system, a performance of a simulation based at least in part on the selected artificial scenario.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: initiating, by the computing system, a performance of testing for an autonomous vehicle, based at least in part on the selected artificial scenario.
11. A computing system, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause performance of operations comprising: generating artificial data representing one or more artificial scenarios for an autonomous vehicle; analyzing the artificial data to determine authenticity data representing an authenticity associated with the artificial data; and selecting an artificial scenario from the artificial data, when the authenticity associated with the artificial scenario is greater than an authenticity threshold value.
12. The computing system of claim 10, wherein generating the artificial data comprises: obtaining generator input data indicative of one or more parameter values associated with one or more artificial environments or one or more artificial logs; inputting the generator input data into a machine-learned generator model to generate the artificial data based at least in part on the generator input data; and obtaining an output of the machine-learned generator model in response to inputting the generator input data into the machine-learned generator model, the output including the artificial data.
13. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the machine-learned generator model is trained based at least in part on real-world data.
14. The computing system of claim 10, wherein analyzing the artificial data to determine the authenticity data comprises: inputting the artificial data into a machine-learned discriminator model to generate the authenticity data; and obtaining an output of the machine-learned discriminator model in response to inputting the artificial data into the machine-learned discriminator model, the output including the authenticity data.
15. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the machine-learned discriminator model is trained based at least in part on real-world data.
16. The computing system of claim 10, wherein generating the artificial data comprises: obtaining existing data indicative of a previously generated artificial scenario and associated authenticity; inputting the existing data into a machine-learned generator model to generate the artificial data, based at least in part on the existing data; and obtaining an output of the machine-learned generator model in response to inputting the existing data into the machine-learned generator model, the output including the artificial data, wherein the artificial data includes at least one artificial scenario that is based on the existing data.
17. The computing system of claim 15, wherein obtaining the output of the machine-learned generator model comprises: generating the at least one artificial scenario that is based on the existing data such that it is more likely to be determined as authentic compared to the previously generated artificial scenario.
18. The computing system of claim 10, the method further comprising: initiating the performance of a simulation based at least in part on the selected artificial scenario.
19. The computing system of claim 10, the method further comprising: initiating the performance of testing for an autonomous vehicle, based at least in part on the selected artificial environment or artificial log.
20. A non-transitory-computer-readable medium that stores instructions that when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations, the operations comprising: generating artificial data representing one or more artificial environments of an autonomous vehicle or one or more artificial logs of an autonomous vehicle; analyzing the artificial data to determine authenticity data representing an authenticity associated with the artificial data; and selecting an artificial environment or an artificial log from the artificial data, when the authenticity data is greater than an authenticity threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
