<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/20,G06N3/08,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Actapio, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKAMOTO, Shin-ichiro
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424804
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING AND OPTIMIZING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method for generating and optimizing an artificial intelligence model, the method comprising receiving input data and labels, and performing data validation to generate a configuration file, and splitting the data to generate split data for training and evaluation; performing training and evaluation of the split data to determine an error level, and based on the error level, performing an action, wherein the action comprises at least one of modifying the configuration file and tuning the artificial intelligence model automatically; generating the artificial intelligence model based on the training, the evaluation and the tuning; and serving the model for production.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for generating and optimizing an artificial intelligence model, the method comprising: receiving input data and labels, and performing data validation to generate a configuration file, and splitting the data to generate split data for training and evaluation; performing training and evaluation of the split data to determine an error level, and based on the error level, performing an action, wherein the action comprises at least one of modifying the configuration file and tuning the artificial intelligence model automatically; generating the artificial intelligence model based on the training, the evaluation and the tuning; and serving the model for production.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the tuning comprises: automatically optimizing one or more input features associated with the input data; automatically optimizing hyper-parameters associated with the generated artificial intelligence model; and automatically generating an updated model based on optimized one or more input features and the optimize hyper-parameters.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein the one or more input features are optimize by a genetic algorithm to optimize combinations of the one or more input features, and generate a list of the optimize input features.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein the automatically optimizing the hyper-parameters comprises application of at least one of a Bayesian and random algorithm to optimize based on the hyper-parameters.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein the automatically optimizing the one or more input features is performed in a first iterative loop that is performed until a first prescribed number of iterations has been met, and the automatically optimizing the hyper-parameters and the automatically generating the updated model is performed in a second iterative loop until a second prescribed number of iterations has been met.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the first iterative loop and the second iterative loop are performed iteratively until a third prescribed number of iterations has been met.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing the training and the evaluation comprises execution of one or more feature functions based on a data type of the data, a density of the data, and an amount of the data.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium configured to execute machine-readable instructions stored in a storage, for generating and optimizing an artificial intelligence model, the instructions comprising: receiving input data and labels, and performing data validation to generate a configuration file, and splitting the data to generate split data for training and evaluation; performing training and evaluation of the split data to determine an error level, and based on the error level, performing an action, wherein the action comprises at least one of modifying the configuration file and tuning the artificial intelligence model automatically; generating the artificial intelligence model based on the training, the evaluation and the tuning; and serving the model for production.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the tuning comprises: automatically optimizing one or more input features associated with the input data; automatically optimizing hyper-parameters associated with the generated artificial intelligence model; and automatically generating an updated model based on optimized one or more input features and the optimize hyper-parameters.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the one or more input features are optimize by a genetic algorithm to optimize combinations of the one or more input features, and generate a list of the optimize input features.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the automatically optimizing the hyper-parameters comprises application of at least one of a Bayesian and random algorithm to optimize based on the hyper-parameters.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the automatically optimizing the one or more input features is performed in a first iterative loop that is performed until a first prescribed number of iterations has been met, and the automatically optimizing the hyper-parameters and the automatically generating the updated model is performed in a second iterative loop until a second prescribed number of iterations has been met.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the first iterative loop and the second iterative loop are performed iteratively until a third prescribed number of iterations has been met.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the performing the training and the evaluation comprises execution of one or more feature functions based on a data type of the data, a density of the data, and an amount of the data.
15. A system for generating and optimizing an artificial intelligence model, the system comprising: a data framework configured to receive input data and labels, perform data validation to generate a configuration file, split the data to generate split data for training and evaluation; a deep framework configured to perform training and evaluation of the split data to determine an error level, and based on the error level, to perform an action, generate the artificial intelligence model based on the training, the evaluation and the tuning, and serve the model for production; and a tuning framework configured to perform the action, wherein the action comprises at least one of modifying the configuration file and tuning the artificial intelligence model automatically.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the tuning framework is configured to automatically optimize one or more input features associated with the input data, automatically optimize hyper-parameters associated with the generated artificial intelligence model, and automatically generate an updated model based on optimized one or more input features and the optimize hyper-parameters.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the tuner framework automatically optimizes the one or more input features by application of a genetic algorithm to optimize combinations of the one or more input features, and generates a list of the optimize input features.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the tuner framework automatically optimizes the the hyper-parameters by application of at least one of a Bayesian and random algorithm to optimize based on the hyper-parameters.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the tuner framework performs the automatically optimizing the one or more input features in a first iterative loop until a first prescribed number of iterations has been met, and the tuner framework performs the automatically optimizing the hyper-parameters and the automatically generating the updated model in a second iterative loop until a second prescribed number of iterations has been met.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the tuner framework performs the first iterative loop and the second iterative loop iteratively until a third prescribed number of iterations has been met.
</claims>
</document>
