<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/587,G06N20/20,G06Q50/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPENDOOR LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, ZAINUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423414
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VALUE PREDICTION ERROR GENERATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, media and methods are presented for generating a value prediction error for a real-estate property. In one example, a system receives one or more images of a real estate property and a value prediction relating to the current value of the real-estate property. The system analyzes the one or more images and value prediction using a machine learning model to generate a value prediction error. The system determines whether the value prediction error exceeds a predetermined value prediction error threshold, and based on determining that the value prediction error exceeds the predetermined value prediction threshold, computes a final value of the real-estate property by adjusting the value prediction using the value prediction error.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, using one or more processors, one or more images of a real-estate property and a value prediction relating to a current value of the real-estate property; analyzing, using the one or more processors, the one or more images and the value prediction using a machine learning model to generate a value prediction error; determining, using the one or more processors, that the value prediction error exceeds a predetermined value prediction error threshold; and based on the determination, computing, using the one or more processors, a final value of the real-estate property by adjusting the value prediction using the value prediction error.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, using the one or more processors, the final value to a client device, wherein the final value is displayed on a graphical user interface of the client device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the received value prediction is generated by a separate machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction based on quantitative data relating to the real-estate property.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, using the one or more processors, quantitative data relating to the real-estate property; and wherein analyzing, using the one or more processors, the image and the value prediction using the machine learning model further comprises analyzing the quantitative data using the machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction error.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more images of the real-estate property includes a panoramic view of the real-estate property.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, using the one or more processors, location information for the real-estate property; and wherein receiving the image includes retrieving the one or more images of the real-estate property from a database using the location information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model has been pretrained on an image dataset comprising images of real-estate properties.
8. A system comprising: a memory that stores instructions; and one or more processors configured by the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving, using one or more processors, one or more images of a real-estate property and a value prediction relating to a current value of the real-estate property; analyzing, using the one or more processors, the one or more images and the value prediction using a machine learning model to generate a value prediction error; determining, using the one or more processors, that the value prediction error exceeds a predetermined value prediction error threshold; and based on the determination, computing, using the one or more processors, a final value of the real-estate property by adjusting the value prediction using the value prediction error.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, using the one or more processors, the final value to a client device, wherein the final value is displayed on a graphical user interface of the client device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the received value prediction is generated by a separate machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction based on quantitative data relating to the real-estate property.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, using the one or more processors, quantitative data relating to the real-estate property; and wherein analyzing, using the one or more processors, the image and the value prediction using the machine learning model further comprises analyzing the quantitative data using the machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction error.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the image of the real-estate property includes a panoramic view of the real-estate property.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving location information for the real-estate property; and wherein receiving the image includes retrieving the one or more images of the real-estate property from a database using the location information.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the machine learn model has been pretrained on an image dataset comprising images of real-estate properties.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, the computer-readable storage medium including instructions that when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: receiving, using one or more processors, one or more images of a real-estate property and a value prediction relating to a current value of the real-estate property; analyzing, using the one or more processors, the one or more images and the value prediction using a machine learning model to generate a value prediction error; determining, using the one or more processors, that the value prediction error exceeds a predetermined value prediction error threshold; and based on the determination, computing, using the one or more processors, a final value of the real-estate property by adjusting the value prediction using the value prediction error.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, using the one or more processors, the final value to a client device, wherein the final value is displayed on a graphical user interface of the client device.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the received value prediction is generated by a separate machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction based on quantitative data relating to the real-estate property.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, using the one or more processors, quantitative data relating to the real-estate property; and wherein analyzing, using the one or more processors, the image and the value prediction using the machine learning model further comprises analyzing the quantitative data using the machine learning model trained to generate the value prediction error.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the image of the real-estate property includes a panoramic view of the real-estate property.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving location information for the real-estate property; and wherein receiving the image includes retrieving the one or more images of the real-estate property from a database using the location information.
</claims>
</document>
