<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61B34/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAKO SURGICAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAMPP, EMILY
DE SOUZA, KEVIN MICHAEL
SCHOLL, LAURA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71073772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREOPERATIVE PLANNING AND POSTOPERATIVE ANALYSIS OF SURGICAL PROCEDURES
</title>

<abstract>
A system for determining accuracy of a surgical procedure to implant an implant on a patient bone. The system including at least one computing device configured to perform the following steps. Receive preoperative patient data including preoperative images of the patient bone and planned implant position and orientation data. Receive postoperative patient data including postoperative images of the patient bone and an implant implanted on the patient bone. Segment the patient bone and the implant from the postoperative images of the patient bone and the implant. Register separately the patient bone and the implant from the postoperative images to the patient bone from the preoperative images. And compare an implanted position and orientation of the implant from the postoperative images relative to the patient bone from the preoperative images to the planned implant position and orientation data relative to the patient bone from the preoperative images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining accuracy of a surgical procedure to implant an implant on a patient bone, the system comprising: a) at least one computing device configured to: i) receive preoperative patient data comprising preoperative images of the patient bone and planned implant position and orientation data; ii) receive postoperative patient data comprising postoperative images of the patient bone and an implant implanted on the patient bone, the postoperative images having been generated after the preoperative images and after the surgical procedure to implant the implant on the patient bone; iii) from the postoperative images of the patient bone and the implant, segment the patient bone; iv) from the postoperative images of the patient bone and the implant, segment the implant; v) register the patient bone from the postoperative images to the patient bone from the preoperative images; vi) register the implant from the postoperative images to the patient bone from the preoperative images; and vii) compare an implanted position and orientation of the implant from the postoperative images relative to the patient bone from the preoperative images to the planned implant position and orientation data relative to the patient bone from the preoperative images.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to determine the accuracy of the surgical procedure by computing a difference between the implanted position and orientation and the planned implant position and orientation data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to display the implant from the postoperative images overlaid on the patient bone from the preoperative images on a display screen.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to generate a three-dimensional bone model of the patient bone from the preoperative images.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to generate a postoperative three-dimensional bone model from the postoperative images of the patient bone and the implant where the patient bone was segmented.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the postoperative three-dimensional bone model includes a void corresponding to a location of the implant.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient bone comprises a femur.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the implant comprises a total-knee femoral implant.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the implant comprises a partial-knee femoral implant.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient bone comprise a tibia.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the implant comprises a total-knee tibia implant.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the implant comprises a partial-knee tibia implant.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient bone comprises at least one of a femur, a tibia, or an ilium.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one computing device is further configured to label discrete portions of the postoperative images as corresponding to implant.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the discrete portions comprise voxels of the postoperative images.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the discrete portions of the postoperative images are labeled as corresponding to implant based on voxel classification.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein segmenting the patient bone from the postoperative images of the patient bone and the implant comprises using an Active Appearance Model (AAM).
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the AAM is configured to disregard the discrete portions of the postoperative images as corresponding to implant so as to only segment portions of the postoperative images corresponding to bone.
19. The system of claim 1, further comprising a surgical navigation system in communication with the at least one computing device.
20. The system of claim 1, further comprising a surgical robot in communication with the at least one computing device.
21. A computer program stored on one or more tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable storage media having executable instructions for performing the computer program on a computing system, the computer program comprising: receiving postoperative patient data comprising postoperative image data of a patient bone with an implant implanted thereon; performing a first segmentation operation isolating the patient bone from the implant in the postoperative image data; performing a second segmentation operation isolating the implant from the patient bone in the postoperative image data; registering the patient bone from the first segmentation operation to preoperative image data that is representative of the patient bone prior to implantation of the implant; registering the implant from the second segmentation operation to the preoperative image data that is representative of the patient bone prior to implantation of the implant; and comparing an implanted position and orientation of the implant registered to the preoperative image data to preoperatively planned implant position and orientation data.
22. The computer program of claim 21, further comprising labeling discrete portions of the postoperative image data as corresponding to implant.
23. The computer program of claim 22, wherein the discrete portions comprise voxels of the postoperative image data.
24. The computer program of claim 22, wherein the discrete portions of the postoperative image data are labeled as corresponding to implant based on voxel intensity.
25. The computer program of claim 22, wherein the first segmentation operation isolating the patient bone from the implant in the postoperative image data is performed using an Active Appearance Model (AAM).
26. The computer program of claim 25, wherein the AAM is configured to disregard the discrete portions of the postoperative image data so as to segment only bone.
27. A computerized method of registering postoperative patient data and preoperative patient data, the computerized method comprising: receiving postoperative patient data comprising postoperative image data of a patient bone with an implant implanted thereon; performing a first segmentation operation separating the patient bone from the implant in the postoperative image data; performing a second segmentation operation separating the implant from the patient bone in the postoperative image data; registering the patient bone from the first segmentation operation to preoperative image data of the patient bone prior to implantation of the implant; registering the implant from the second segmentation operation to preoperative image data of the patient bone prior to implantation of the implant; and comparing an implanted position and orientation of the implant registered to the preoperative image data to preoperatively planned implant position and orientation data.
28. The computerized method of claim 27, further comprising labeling discrete portions of the postoperative image data as either corresponding to bone or corresponding to implant.
29. The computerized method of claim 28, wherein the discrete portions comprise voxels of the postoperative image data.
30. The computerized method of claim 28, wherein the discrete portions of the postoperative image data are labeled as either corresponding to bone or corresponding to implant based on voxel intensity.
31. The computerized method of claim 28, wherein the first segmentation operation isolating the patient bone from the implant in the postoperative image data is performed using an Active Appearance Model (AAM).
32. The computerized method of claim 29, wherein the AAM is configured to disregard the discrete portions of the postoperative image data so as to segment only bone.
33. The computerized method of claim 27, further comprising planning a revision surgery based on results of comparing the implanted position and orientation of the implant registered to the preoperative image data and the preoperatively planned implant position and orientation data.
</claims>
</document>
