<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/04,G10L15/07,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAITO MARI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67395867
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING APPARATUS AND INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
To more smoothly communicate with a user. Provided is an information processing apparatus including an output control unit configured to control information presentation to a user, in which, in a case where a specific expression in a group including the user is applicable regarding content of information to be presented, the output control unit causes the information presentation including the specific expression to be executed using at least one of a sound or an image. Furthermore, provided is an information processing apparatus including a learning unit configured to learn a recognition target and a linguistic expression regarding the recognition target in association with each other, in which the linguistic expression includes a specific expression in a group including a user, and the learning unit learns the specific expression on the basis of at least one of a collected sound or a collected image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising: an output control unit configured to control information presentation to a user, wherein, in a case where a specific expression in a group including the user is applicable regarding content of information to be presented, the output control unit causes the information presentation including the specific expression to be executed using at least one of a sound or an image.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the output control unit determines whether or not the specific expression is applicable to the information to be presented on a basis of at least one input information of an input sound or an input image.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein, in a case where there is the specific expression applicable to a recognition target recognized on a basis of the image, the output control unit determines that the specific expression is applicable to the information to be presented.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein, in a case where there is the specific expression applicable to a linguistic expression recognized on a basis of the sound, the output control unit determines that the specific expression is applicable to the information to be presented.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein, in a case where the image corresponding to the specific expression is registered, the output control unit causes the information presentation to be executed using the sound and the image.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein, in a case where the output control unit determines that the specific expression is not applied to the information to be presented on a basis of a plurality of detected users, the output control unit causes the information presentation to be executed using a general expression.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein, in a case where a user not belonging to the group is identified from the plurality of users, the output control unit determines that the specific expression is not applied to the information to be presented and causes the information presentation to be executed using a general expression.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein, in a case where it is estimated that the user does not understand the specific expression, the output control unit determines that the specific expression is not applied to the information to be presented and causes the information presentation to be executed using a general expression.
9. An information processing apparatus comprising: a learning unit configured to learn a recognition target and a linguistic expression regarding the recognition target in association with each other, wherein the linguistic expression includes a specific expression in a group including a user, and the learning unit learns the specific expression on a basis of at least one of a collected sound or a collected image.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the specific expression includes a name for an object, and the learning unit learns the object recognized on a basis of the image and the name in association with each other.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the learning unit learns an object recognized from the image and the specific expression used by the user for the object recognized from the sound in association with each other.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the learning unit learns an object recognized from the image and the name corresponding to use of the object estimated from the image in association with each other.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the learning unit learns an object recognized from the image and the specific expression used by the user for the object recognized from a conversation of the user in association with each other.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the learning unit learns the specific expression recognized from the sound and an object recognized on a basis of record information regarding the user in association with each other.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the learning unit learns a specific expression used by an utterer for an utterance target person and the utterance target person in association with each other.
16. The information processing apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the learning unit re-evaluates the association between the utterance target person and the specific expression according to a characteristic of the utterance target person.
17. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the learning unit sets reliability of the specific expression to be used for the recognition target on a basis of a number of times the recognition target is recognized.
18. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the specific expression includes at least one of a name, an adjective expression, or an operation expression.
19. An information processing method executed by a processor, the method comprising: controlling information presentation to a user; and in a case where a specific expression in a group including the user is applicable regarding content of information to be presented, causing the information presentation including the specific expression to be executed using at least one of a sound or an image.
20. An information processing method executed by a processor, the method comprising: learning a recognition target and a linguistic expression regarding the recognition target in association with each other; the linguistic expression including a specific expression in a group including a user; and learning the specific expression on a basis of at least one of a collected sound or a collected image.
</claims>
</document>
