<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/103,A61B5/107,A61B5/11,G01G19/44,G01L1/14,G01L1/22,G01L1/24,G05B19/4155,H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
MENSAH, WILLIAM WIREKO
Prugh, Alexander
Carone, Johnathan Michael
Elliott, Martin Logan
Madden, Donald Gerard
Zhang, John
Kalagher, Mary Melissa
Koniar, Daniel John
Yao, Liyu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72921679
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROPERTY CONTROL AND CONFIGURATION BASED ON FLOOR CONTACT MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property is disclosed. The monitoring system includes a sensor that is configured to generate sensor data that indicates an attribute of the property; a floor sensor that is configured to generate floor sensor data that indicates an amount of pressure applied to a portion of a floor of the property; and a monitor control unit. The monitor control unit is configured to receive, from the sensor, the sensor data; receive, from the floor sensor, the floor sensor data; analyze the sensor data and the floor sensor data; and based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, perform a monitoring system action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property, the monitoring system comprising: a sensor that is configured to generate sensor data that indicates an attribute of the property; a floor sensor that is configured to generate floor sensor data that indicates an amount of pressure applied to a portion of a floor of the property; and a monitor control unit that is configured to: receive, from the sensor, the sensor data; receive, from the floor sensor, the floor sensor data; analyze the sensor data and the floor sensor data; and based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, perform a monitoring system action.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: detect, based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, one or more footsteps taken on the portion of the floor by a person; and generate footstep data, the footstep data comprising one or more of: a number of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during a period of time; a path of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time; a gait pattern of the person; a weight of the person; or a foot size of the person.
3. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine, based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, that a person has fallen on the portion of the floor; and in response to determining that the person has fallen on the portion of the floor, perform the monitoring system action.
4. The monitoring system of claim 3, wherein determining that the person has fallen on the portion of the floor comprises: determining an impact pressure applied to the portion of the floor; and determining that the impact pressure applied to the portion of the floor exceeded a threshold impact pressure.
5. The monitoring system of claim 3, wherein determining that the person has fallen on the portion of the floor comprises: determining a distribution of the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor; determining that the distribution of the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor indicates that a person is prone on the floor; and determining that a length of time that the person is prone on the floor exceeds a threshold length of time.
6. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine, based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, an occupancy of a portion of the property; determine that the occupancy of the portion of the property exceeds a threshold occupancy of the property; and in response to determining that the occupancy of the portion of the property exceeds the threshold occupancy of the property, perform the monitoring system action.
7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine a base state of the portion of the floor, the base state comprising an amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by one or more inanimate objects in the absence of human activity; detect, based on analyzing the floor sensor data, a change in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor in the absence of human activity; and based on detecting the change in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor in the absence of human activity, determine that a location of one or more inanimate objects has changed.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine an amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by a furnishing storing a plurality of items; detect, based on analyzing the floor sensor data, a reduction in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by the furnishing; based on detecting the reduction in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by the furnishing, determine that one or more of the plurality of items has been removed from the furnishing; and in response to determining that the one or more of the plurality of items has been removed from the furnishing, perform the monitoring system action.
9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the floor is located in a garage having a garage door operated by a garage door control device, and wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine an amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by a vehicle; detect, based on analyzing the floor sensor data, an increase in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by the vehicle; based on detecting the increase in the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor by the vehicle, determine that a person has entered the vehicle; and in response to determining that the person has entered the vehicle, communicate an instruction to the garage door control device to open the garage door.
10. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the floor sensor is integrated into a floor surface, the floor surface comprising one or more of a tile, a carpet, a mat, a floorboard, a pad, or an underlayment.
11. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein: the floor of the property comprises a plurality of tiles, and the floor sensor comprises: a plurality of pressure sensors, each of the plurality of pressure sensors integrated into a respective tile of the plurality of tiles and configured to output a measured amount of pressure applied to the respective tile.
12. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the floor sensor comprises one or more of a strain gauge, a fiber optic sensor, or a capacitive sensor.
13. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the amount of pressure applied to the portion of the floor of the property comprises an indication of either a presence or absence of pressure applied to the portion of the floor.
14. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system action comprises activating one or more cameras to capture an image of an area of the property that includes the portion of the floor.
15. The monitoring system of claim 14, wherein the monitoring system action comprises: identifying, using image analysis, a presence of a person in the image; and determining, based on analyzing the floor sensor data, a weight of the person in the image.
16. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine, based on the footstep data, that the number of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time deviates from an expected number of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time; and communicate, to a user device of a user, a notification indicating that the number of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time deviates from the expected number of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time.
17. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the monitoring system action is configured to: determine, based on the path of footsteps taken on the portion of the floor during the period of time, that the person is approaching an area of the property that is off limits to the person; and in response to determining that the person is approaching the area of the property that is off limits to the person, perform the monitoring system action.
18. The monitoring system of claim 17, wherein determining that the person is approaching the area of the property that is off limits to the person comprises: identifying, based on analyzing the sensor data, an identifiable feature of the person; retrieving, from a database, one or more identifiable features indicating access to the area of the property; and determining that the identifiable feature of the person does not match any of the one or more identifiable features indicating access to the area of the property.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a sensor, sensor data that indicates an attribute of a property; receiving, from a floor sensor, floor sensor data that indicates an amount of pressure applied to a portion of a floor of the property; analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data; and based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, performing a monitoring system action.
20. A method, comprising: receiving, from a sensor, sensor data that indicates an attribute of a property; receiving, from a floor sensor, floor sensor data that indicates an amount of pressure applied to a portion of a floor of the property; analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data; and based on analyzing the sensor data and the floor sensor data, performing a monitoring system action.
</claims>
</document>
