<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K31/19,A61K31/22,A61K35/00,A61P35/00,G16B5/00,G16H20/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGER, ROBERT
BLUM, STEVEN
REKER, DANIEL
TRAVERSO, CARLO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72240188
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS OF AVOIDING EXCIPIENT-BASED ADVERSE EFFECTS AND OF EXPLOITING BIOLOGICAL PROPERTIES OF GRAS COMPOUNDS
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to methods of selecting or tailoring a therapeutic for an individual subject, reducing the excipient burden in a subject, and identifying adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredients in a subject being administered multiple drugs. The invention also relates to methods of inhibiting UGT2B7 activity or P-gp activity, methods of treating a subject via co-administration of a UGT2B7 inhibitor or a P-gp inhibitor, and pharmaceutical compositions comprising gum rosin, abietic acid, or vitamin A palmate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selecting a therapeutic for an individual subject, the method comprising the steps of: a) providing a formulation network that depicts available alternatives of dosage forms and interchangeabilities of functionally equivalent inactive ingredients, b) selecting a first drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the first drug formulation comprises an active pharmaceutical ingredient and at least one inactive ingredient, c) identifying at least one ingredient that is toxic to the individual subject from among the at least one inactive ingredient in the first drug formulation, and d) selecting and administering a second drug formulation from within the formulation network wherein the second drug formulation comprises the active pharmaceutical ingredient and does not comprise the at least one toxic ingredient.
2. A method of treating a subject with a therapeutic comprising an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), the method comprising a) evaluating a first set of excipients provided with an API for toxicity in the subject; b) replacing the first set of excipients wherein one or more of the excipients is found to be toxic to the subject with a second set of excipients, wherein the toxic excipients in the first set of excipients are replaced with non-toxic excipients that are functionally equivalent to the corresponding toxic excipient; and c) administering the API with the second set of excipients to the subject.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the toxicity is an allergy.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the allergy is to gluten or lactose.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the functional equivalence is selected from the group consisting of antiadherence, binding, coating, color, disintegration, flavor, providing glide, lubrication, preservation of the API, prevention of water absorption, sweetening, bulking, vehicles, and bioequivalents.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more excipients found to be toxic to the subject are selected from the group consisting of a food, a polymer, a dye, and a sugar.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more excipients found to be toxic to the subject are selected from the group consisting of lactose, corn starch, PEG, povidone, carboxymethylcellulose, gelatin, Brilliant Blue, Sunset Yellow FCF, Allura Red, propylene glycol, indigo carmine, mannitol, sucrose, sodium benzoate, parabens, aspartame, erythrosine, tartrazine, saccharine, poloxamer, soybean oil, benzyl alcohol, vanilla, castor oil, cetyl alcohol, sulfite, PEG castor oils, peanut oil, benzoic acid, corn syrup, sesame oil, starch wheat, casein, banana essence, milk, glucosamine, new coccine, and stearyl alcohol.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the toxicity is gastrointestinal distress.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the gastrointestinal distress is caused by a fermentable oligosaccharide, disaccharide, monosaccharide, or polyol (FODMAP).
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises mitigating toxicity in the subject, wherein the toxicity is the result of at least one toxic inactive ingredient in the first set of excipients.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the subject has an allergy; the toxic excipient in the first set of excipients is an allergen to the subject; and the second set of excipients does not comprise the allergen.
12. (canceled)
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is ingesting multiple drugs, and wherein the method further comprises comprising: a) identifying all excipients in the multiple drugs being ingested by the subject; and b) quantifying the total amount of each excipient being ingested by the subject during a specified timeframe to determine an excipient burden.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: c) identifying one or more symptoms experienced by the subject during administration of the multiple drugs, and d) correlating the excipient burden to the one or more symptoms to establish a potential causal relationship.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the subject has irritable bowel syndrome, small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, or dyspepsia; the toxic excipient in the first set of excipients provokes an adverse reaction in the subject's gastrointestinal (GI) tract; and the second set of excipients comprises a reduced amount of the toxic excipient.
16. 16-24. (canceled)
25. A method of reducing the total adverse reaction-associated inactive ingredient (ARAII) excipient burden in a subject being administered multiple drugs, the method comprising: a) identifying a set of therapeutics being administered to the subject; b) identifying excipients and APIs in the set of therapeutics being administered to the subject; c) identifying an excipient being administered to the subject as the ARAII in the subject; d) quantifying the total amount of the ARAII being administered to the subject to determine a first ARAII excipient burden; and e) selecting a new set of therapeutics wherein the new set of therapeutics comprises the APIs of the first set of therapeutics and wherein the new set of therapeutics comprises a second ARAII excipient burden that is less than the first ARAII excipient burden.
26. 26-31. (canceled)
32. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of excipients and the second set of excipients have previously been administered to a human.
33. (canceled)
34. A method of inhibiting UGT2B7 activity, comprising contacting a cell having UGT2B7 activity with a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid.
35. (canceled)
36. A method of treating a disease or disorder in a subject in need thereof comprising co-administering to the subject: an effective amount of an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), wherein the API undergoes UGT2B7-mediated glucuronidation; and a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor and the API are co-administered in a formulation wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor and the API are mixed together.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor is not used as a coating.
39. The method of claim 36, wherein the API is selected from the group consisting of: hydromorphone, losartan, diclofenac, etodolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, naproxen, suprofen, mitiglinide, zaltoprofen, ambrisentan, troglitazone, morphine, indomethacin, mycophenolate mofetil, ezetimibe, mycophenolic acid, vadimezan, epirubicin, tapentadol, pitavastatin, silodosin, zidovudine, lovastatin, simvastatin, oxazepam, carbamazepine, codeine, fluvastatin, valproic acid, dapagliflozin, enasidenib, nalmefene, acemetacin, ertugliflozin, artenimol, labetalol, tamoxifen, carvedilol, ketorolac, dabigatran etexilate, dexibuprofen, gemfibrozil, anastrozole, and loxoprofen.
40. (canceled)
41. A method of inhibiting P-glycoprotein activity, comprising contacting a cell having P-glycoprotein activity with vitamin A palmitate.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the cell overexpresses P-glycoprotein.
43. A method of treating cancer in a subject in need thereof comprising co-administering to the subject: an effective amount of one or more chemotherapeutic agents; and vitamin A palmitate.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein the cancer is characterized by P-glycoprotein overexpression.
45. The method of claim 43, wherein the cancer is multidrug-resistant cancer.
46. The method of claim 43, wherein the chemotherapeutic is selected from the group consisting of alkylating agents, tumor necrosis factors, intercalators, microtubulin inhibitors, topisomerase inhibitors, and tyrosine kinase inhibitors.
47. The method of claim 43, wherein the one or more chemotherapeutic agents have increased cell permeability when co-administered with vitamin A palmitate compared to administration of the one or more chemotherapeutic agents without vitamin A palmitate.
48. A pharmaceutical composition comprising: an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API), wherein the API undergoes UGT2B7-mediated glucuronidation; and a UGT2B7 inhibitor selected from the group consisting of gum rosin and abietic acid.
49. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 48, wherein the API and the UGT2B7 inhibitor are co-formulated as a mixture.
50. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 48, wherein the UGT2B7 inhibitor is not used as a coating.
51. A pharmaceutical composition comprising a chemotherapeutic agent and vitamin A palmitate.
52. The pharmaceutical composition of claim 51, wherein the chemotherapeutic agent is a P-gp substrate.
</claims>
</document>
