<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
MERMOUD, GRÉGORY
SAVALLE, PIERRE-ANDRÉ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70549986
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Removal of environment and local context from network traffic for device classification
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device classification service assigns a set of endpoint devices to a context group. The device classification service forms a context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group. Each telemetry feature vector is indicative of a plurality of traffic features observed for the endpoint devices. The device classification service normalizes a telemetry feature vector for a particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector. The device classification service classifies, using the normalized telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device as input to a device type classifier, the particular endpoint device as being of a particular device type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: assigning, by a device classification service, a set of endpoint devices to a context group; forming, by the device classification service, a context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group, wherein each telemetry feature vector is indicative of a plurality of traffic features observed for the endpoint devices; normalizing, by the device classification service, a telemetry feature vector for a particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector; and classifying, by the device classification service and using the normalized telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device as input to a device type classifier, the particular endpoint device as being of a particular device type.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the endpoint devices assigned to the context group are located in a common location.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the telemetry feature vector for an endpoint device comprises binary indicators of the presence or absence of a plurality of network traffic protocols observed in network traffic of that endpoint device.
4. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the device classification service, an indication of the device type to a networking device, wherein the networking device applies a network policy to traffic of the particular endpoint device based on the indicated device type of the particular endpoint device.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein forming the context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group comprises: averaging the telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group into the context summary feature vector.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein forming the context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group comprises: identifying, for one of the endpoint devices assigned to the context group, a device profile for that endpoint device; subtracting a device profile feature vector associated with the identified device profile from the telemetry feature vector for the endpoint device for which the device profile was identified, wherein the context summary feature vector is formed based in part on the telemetry feature vector for that endpoint device after the subtraction.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein normalizing the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector comprises: subtracting the context summary feature vector from the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: normalizing the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device using one or more other context summary feature vectors for one or more other context groups, wherein the context group and the one or more other context groups belong to a hierarch of context groups.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device type classifier is a machine learning-based classifier.
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: assign a set of endpoint devices to a context group; form a context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group, wherein each telemetry feature vector is indicative of a plurality of traffic features observed for the endpoint devices; normalize a telemetry feature vector for a particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector; and classify, using the normalized telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device as input to a device type classifier, the particular endpoint device as being of a particular device type.
11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the endpoint devices assigned to the context group are located in a common location.
12. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the telemetry feature vector for an endpoint device comprises binary indicators of the presence or absence of a plurality of network traffic protocols observed in network traffic of that endpoint device.
13. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: provide an indication of the device type to a networking device, wherein the networking device applies a network policy to traffic of the particular endpoint device based on the indicated device type of the particular endpoint device.
14. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus forms the context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group by: averaging the telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group into the context summary feature vector.
15. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus forms the context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group by: identifying, for one of the endpoint devices assigned to the context group, a device profile for that endpoint device; subtracting a device profile feature vector associated with the identified device profile from the telemetry feature vector for the endpoint device for which the device profile was identified, wherein the context summary feature vector is formed based in part on the telemetry feature vector for that endpoint device after the subtraction.
16. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus normalizes the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector by: subtracting the context summary feature vector from the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device.
17. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: normalize the telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device using one or more other context summary feature vectors for one or more other context groups, wherein the context group and the one or more other context groups belong to a hierarch of context groups.
18. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the device type classifier is a machine learning-based classifier.
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device classification service to execute a process comprising: assigning, by the device classification service, a set of endpoint devices to a context group; forming, by the device classification service, a context summary feature vector for the context group that summarizes telemetry feature vectors for the endpoint devices assigned to the context group, wherein each telemetry feature vector is indicative of a plurality of traffic features observed for the endpoint devices; normalizing, by the device classification service, a telemetry feature vector for a particular endpoint device using the context summary feature vector; and classifying, by the device classification service and using the normalized telemetry feature vector for the particular endpoint device as input to a device type classifier, the particular endpoint device as being of a particular device type.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 19, wherein the telemetry feature vector for an endpoint device comprises binary indicators of the presence or absence of a plurality of network traffic protocols observed in network traffic of that endpoint device.
</claims>
</document>
