<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/68,G16B25/10,G16B30/00,G16B40/10,G16B50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BIOINFORMATICS SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, XIN
LI MING
QIAO, RUI
SHAN, BAOZHEN
TRAN, NGOC HIEU
XIN, LEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731524
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PATIENT-SPECIFIC IDENTIFICATION OF NEOANTIGENS BY DE NOVO PEPTIDE SEQUENCING FOR PERSONALIZED IMMUNOTHERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
The present systems and workflows identify neoantigens for cancer immunotherapy by introducing deep learning to de novo peptide sequencing from tandem mass spectrometry data. The systems and workflow allows for patient specific identification of neoantigens for personalized immunotherapy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented system for identifying neoantigens for immunotherapy, using neural networks to de novo sequence peptides from mass spectrometry data obtained from a patient tissue sample, the computer implemented system comprising: at least one memory and at least one processor configured to provide a plurality of layered computing nodes configured to form an artificial neural network for generating a probability measure for one or more candidates to a next amino acid in an amino acid sequence, the artificial neural network comprises a recurrent neural network trained on mass spectrometry data of a plurality of fragment ions peaks of sequences differing in length and differing by one or more amino acids; wherein the plurality of layered nodes are configured to receive a mass spectrometry spectrum data, the plurality of layered nodes comprising at least one convolutional layer for filtering mass spectrometry spectrum data to detect fragment ion peaks; and wherein the processor is configured to: a) conduct a first database search of the mass spectrometry spectrum data to generate a first list representing first database-search identified peptides, b) train the neural network on fragment ion peaks of the first list representing identified peptides from the first database search, c) provide the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate a second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences that are sequenced from the plurality of fragment ion peaks and that are not identified by the first database search, d) generate a third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences from the second list, by filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences to identify and retain sequenced peptides having a known mutation as compared to a corresponding wild-type peptide, e) conduct a second database search with mass spectrometry spectrum data associated with the third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences, to identify peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) of the peptides, f) modify the third list to retain candidate mutated peptide sequences that have multiple PSMs, and g) generate an output signal representing a candidate neoantigen selected from the modified third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first list representing first database-search identified peptides is generated by matching the mass spectrometry spectrum data against all peptides of a given peptidome.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to apply a confidence score based on a desired accuracy rate, when sequencing to generate the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the confidence score is based on the distribution of accuracy versus score.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the patient tissue sample is a tumor sample.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to f) retain candidate mutated peptide sequences having four or more PSMs.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to f) retain an identified candidate mutated peptide sequence if the corresponding wild-type peptide is identified by the first database search.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein d) filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences comprises one or more of: i) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence is not present in a database; ii) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence length is between 8 to 12 amino acids; iii) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence is associated with strong protein binding; iv) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only one mismatch mutation by comparing to a database containing peptide isoforms or variants; or v) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only missense mutations.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to conduct the second database search with mass spectrometry data of the third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences and the first list representing first database-search identified peptides.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to c) provide the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences of: i) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and ii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to identify a de novo sequenced peptide sequence as a candidate mutated peptide sequence if said de novo sequenced peptide sequence: is sequenced from ci) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and is not present in sequences that are sequenced from cii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to conduct the second database search with mass spectrometry data associated with the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences and the first list representing first database-search identified peptides.
13. The system of claim 2, wherein the given peptidome is a HLA peptidome.
14. A method of identifying neoantigens for immunotherapy using neural networks by de novo sequencing of peptides from mass spectrometry data obtained from a patient tissue sample, the neural network comprising a plurality of layered computing nodes configured to form an artificial neural network for generating a probability measure for one or more candidates to a next amino acid in an amino acid sequence, the artificial neural network comprises a recurrent neural network trained on mass spectrometry data of a plurality of fragment ions peaks of sequences differing in length and differing by one or more amino acids; wherein the plurality of layered nodes are configured to receive a mass spectrometry spectrum data, the plurality of layered nodes comprising at least one convolutional layer for filtering mass spectrometry spectrum data to detect fragment ion peaks; the method comprising: a) conducting a first database search of the mass spectrometry spectrum data to generate a first list representing first database-search identified peptides; b) training the neural network on fragment ion peaks of the first list representing identified peptides from the first database search; c) providing the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate a second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences that are sequenced from the plurality of fragment ion peaks and that are not identified by the first database search; d) generating a third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences from the second list, by filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences to identify and retain sequenced peptides having a known mutation as compared to a corresponding wild-type peptide; e) conducting a second database search with mass spectrometry spectrum data associated with the third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences, to identify peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) of the peptides, f) modifying the third list to retain candidate mutated peptide sequences that have multiple PSMs; and g) generating an output signal representing a candidate neoantigen selected from the modified third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences.
15. The method of claim 14, comprising generating the first list representing first database-search identified peptides by matching the mass spectrometry spectrum data against all peptides of a given peptidome.
16. The method of claim 15, the given peptidome is a HLA peptidome.
17. The method of claim 14, comprising apply a confidence score based on a desired accuracy rate, when sequencing to generate the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the confidence score is based on the distribution of accuracy versus score.
19. The method of claim 14, comprising f) retaining candidate mutated peptide sequences having four or more PSMs.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein d) filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences comprises one or more of f: i) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence is not present in a database; ii) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence length is between 8 to 12 amino acids; iii) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence is associated with strong protein binding; iv) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only one mismatch mutation by comparing to a database containing peptide isoforms or variants; or v) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only missense mutations.
21. The method of claim 14, comprising conducting the second database search with mass spectrometry data of the third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences and the first list representing first database-search identified peptides.
22. The method of claim 14, comprising c) providing the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences of: i) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and ii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search.
23. The method of claim 22, comprising identifying a de novo sequenced peptide sequence as a candidate mutated peptide sequence if said de novo sequenced peptide sequence: is sequenced from ci) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and is not present in sequences that are sequenced from cii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search.
24. The method of claim 14, comprising conducting the second database search with mass spectrometry data associated with the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences and the first list representing first database-search identified peptides.
25. The method of claim 14, wherein the patient tissue sample is a tumor sample.
26. The method of claim 14, comprising creating a vaccine against the candidate neoantigen.
27. The method of claim 14, comprising creating an antibody against the candidate neoantigen.
28. A non-transitory computer readable media storing machine interpretable instructions, which when executed, cause a processor to perform steps of a method comprising: a) conducting a first database search of a mass spectrometry spectrum data to generate a first list representing first database-search identified peptides; b) training the neural network on fragment ion peaks of the first list representing identified peptides from the first database search; c) providing the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate a second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences that are sequenced from the plurality of fragment ion peaks and that are not identified by the first database search; d) generating a third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences from the second list, by filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences to identify and retain sequenced peptides having a known mutation as compared to a corresponding wild-type peptide; e) conducting a second database search with mass spectrometry spectrum data associated with the third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences, to identify peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) of the peptides, f) modifying the third list to retain candidate mutated peptide sequences that have multiple PSMs; and g) generating an output signal representing a candidate neoantigen selected from the modified third list representing candidate mutated peptide sequences.
29. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 28, wherein d) filtering each of the de novo sequenced peptide sequences comprises one or more of f: i) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence is not present in a database; ii) retaining a determined sequence if the sequence length is between 8 to 12 amino acids; iii) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence is associated with strong protein binding; iv) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only one mismatch mutation by comparing to a database containing peptide isoforms or variants; or v) retaining a determined sequence if the determined sequence comprises only missense mutations.
30. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 28, comprising c) providing the mass spectrometry spectrum data to the plurality of layered nodes to generate the second list representing de novo sequenced peptide sequences of: i) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and ii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search; and identifying a de novo sequenced peptide sequence as a candidate mutated peptide sequence if said de novo sequenced peptide sequence: is sequenced from ci) fragment ion peaks not identified by the first database search, and is not present in sequences that are sequenced from cii) fragment ion peaks identified by the first database search.
</claims>
</document>
