<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEBRAAL, TROY
SURAWEERA, NETHIKA SAHANI
WILLIAMS, JUSTIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEBRAAL, TROY
SURAWEERA, NETHIKA SAHANI
WILLIAMS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70159008
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
General Content Perception and Selection System.
</title>

<abstract>
This invention is directed toward a system which can "step into the shoes" of a user and learn the perspective of that user, regarding photographs or other content, to the point where the system can learn, using criteria it has developed through its interaction with the user, to select photographs it predicts the user will find meaningful from large sets of photographs. The "meaningfulness" of various content from a multitude of users is a constantly improving system made up of four basic elements: a General Content Perspective, an Individual Content Perspective, a Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation, and a Hypersphere element.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed:
1. A system for learning a user perspective regarding the meaningfulness of various content from a multitude of users, the system comprising: a General Content Perspective (800), an Individual Content Perspective (801), a Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation (804), and a Hypersphere (803)
2. The system of claim 1, additionally comprising a non-transitory storage device having embodied therein one or more routines operable to learn a user perspective regarding the meaningfulness of various content from a multitude of users; and one or more processors coupled to the non-transitory storage device and operable to execute the one or more routines.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the General Content Perspective (801) comprises a personalization funnel (3) which represents the General Content Perspective of the user, which when executed by the one or more processors, receives a plurality of contents (2) from a user, and performs explicit and implicit learning by evaluating distribution of characteristics in a received plurality of contents (2) and updates personalization funnel models (4, 5, 6) contained in the personalization funnel (3) to incorporate the distribution of the characteristics in the contents (2) being evaluated, where the General Content Perspective functions to allow the system to learn and retain one of more perspectives of a user.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the Individual Content Perspective(802), which functions to produce one or more characteristic predictions about one or more individual pieces of content, which when executed by the one or more processors, makes one or more probabilistic predictions about the plurality of contents (2) across a plurality of dimensions to predict one or more dimension values for a user's perspectives regarding the plurality of contents and to remove one or more duplicates and one or more lesser quality near-duplicates.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation (804) is an explanatory user interaction process (21, 22), which when executed by the one or more processors, presents the final set of contents (2) and explains in natural language a reasoning regarding the meaningfulness of the selection of the final set of contents (2), where the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation allows the system to describe one or more selections in a personalized natural language that is customized to an individual system user.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the Hypersphere (803) comprises the magnitude filter (19), which when executed by the one or more processors, creates a vector from the hypersphere plot (16) of all the contents (2) to an idealized center of the hypersphere plot (16) and measures a magnitude of the vector from the idealized center of the hypersphere plot (16) to a boundary of the hypersphere plot (16), so as to remove the contents falling outside the measured magnitude of the created vector and to select a final set of contents (2), where, the hypersphere allows the invention higher levels of precision and accuracy when analyzing one or more large groups of content.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein the General Content Perspective comprises the personalization funnel (3) which represents the General Content Perspective of the user, which when executed by the one or more processors, receives the plurality of contents (2) from the user, and performs explicit and implicit learning by evaluating distribution of characteristics in the received plurality of contents (2) and updates personalization funnel models (4, 5, 6) contained in the personalization funnel (3) to incorporate the distribution of the characteristics in the contents (2) being evaluated, where the General Content Perspective functions to allow the system to learn and retain one of more perspectives of the user, wherein the Individual Content Perspective, which functions to produce one or more content predictions about one or more individual pieces of content, which when executed by the one or more processors, makes one or more probabilistic predictions about the plurality of contents (2) across the plurality of dimensions to predict one or more dimension values for the user's perspectives regarding the plurality of contents and to remove one or more duplicates and one or more lesser quality near-duplicates, wherein the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation the user interaction engine (21, 22), which when executed by the one or more processors, presents the final set of contents (2) and explains in natural language the reasoning regarding the meaningfulness of the selection of the final set of contents (2), where the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation allows the system to describe one or more selections in the personalized natural language that is customized to an individual system user, wherein the Hypersphere comprises the magnitude filter (20), which when executed by the one or more processors, creates the vector from the hypersphere plot (16) of all the contents (2) to an idealized center of the hypersphere plot (16) and measures the magnitude of the vector from the idealized center of the hypersphere plot (16) to the boundary of the hypersphere plot (16), so as to remove the contents falling outside the measured magnitude of the created vector and to select the final set of contents (2), where, the hypersphere allows the invention higher levels of precision and accuracy when analyzing one or more large groups of content.
8. The system of claim 7, where the General Content Perspective comprises one or more subjective models, where the Individual Content Perspective comprises one or more objective models, where the system first builds the General Content Perspective and uses the General Content Perspective as a subjective guide to predict one or more Individual Content Perspective items, using one or more objective models for each item of media.
9. The system of claim 7, where the General Content Perspective additionally comprises a subjective composition element (451), where the subjective composition element comprises, first, a corresponding set of models within the universal model, second, a corresponding set of models within the one or more persona models, and third, a corresponding set of models within the individual model, where the universal model cross-communicates with a first level of the personalization funnel, where the one or more persona models cross-communicates with a second level of the personalization funnel, and where the individual model cross-communicates with a third, bottom level of the personalization funnel.
10. The system of claim 9, where the General Content Perspective additionally comprises an Explicit Learning element (8), a Continuous Learning and Improvement element (9), a Time element (10), and a Context element (11), where the personalization funnel performs an implicit learning function (7).
11. The system of claim 7, where the Individual Content Perspective element comprises one or more static dimensions (12), one or more subjective dimensions, at least one other machine learning dimension (13), and one or more algorithmic dimensions (14).
12. The system of claim 7, where the Hypersphere additionally comprises a normalize data element.
13. The system of claim 12, where the Hypersphere interacts with the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation element.
14. The system of claim 12, where the Hypersphere additionally receives data from the Individual Content Perspective model system which comprises an ML Model (44), which transmits a first data to a Machine Learning Dimensions element (13), a Formulas and Static Attributes element (45), which transmits a second data to a Static Dimensions element (12), and a Source Code element (46), which transmits a third data to an Algorithmic Dimensions element (14), where the first data, the second data, and the third data and transmitted to a Dimensions Prior to Normalization element (47).
15. The system of claim 14, where the data received from the Normalization Engine (47) into Hypersphere additionally comprises an Ensemble Machine Learning Dimensions element (13), which acquires a fourth data from the Machine Learning Dimensions element (13), the Static Dimensions Element (12) and the Algorithmic Dimensions element (14), where the fourth data is transmitted to the Dimensions Prior to Normalization element (47).
16. The system of claim 15, where the Dimensions Prior to Normalization element (47) transmits a fifth data to a Personalization Weighted Normalization element (15), which, in turn, produces a Normalized Dimensions element (48) which is transmitted to the Hypersphere Plot (16), where an Idealized Personal Center/Nexus of Meaningfulness element (17) and an Individual Asset Inside Hypersphere element (18) interact with the system.
17. The system of claim 7, where the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation (804) element interacts with the Hypersphere (803) and the General Content Perspective (801), where the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation (804) element interacts with the General Content Perspective (801) for a language and content presentation personalization element, where the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation element involves a step of presenting a selected set of images to a user for content meaningfulness through human interactions, where the step of presenting a selected set of images to a user for content meaningfulness through human interactions includes an Explain Dimensions & Magnitude Relationships Natural Language Generation step, and a Content Ordered by Magnitude of Vector to Ideal Center step.
18. A method for learning a user perspective regarding the meaningfulness of various content from a multitude of people, the method comprising: utilizing a system comprising the General Content Perspective (800), the Individual Content Perspective (801), the Natural Language Generation and Content Presentation (804), and the Hypersphere (803), then using that system to provide a general content perception and selection system that includes at least one feedback element and at least one learning element, where, the system, allows for an ongoing improvement in the system's understanding of the user perspective using the user's own content as a guide at the beginning of the process by modeling what the system initially believes are the best and most predictive subjective visual perspectives of an individual before attempting to evaluate the content itself.
19. The method of claim 18, additionally comprising a second step, where the plurality of contents (2) are first received at the personalization funnel (3) from the user for performing implicit learning by evaluating distribution of characteristics in the received plurality of contents (2), updating personalization funnel models (4, 5, 6) contained in the personalization funnel (3) to incorporate the distribution of the characteristics in the contents (2) being evaluated.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the system additionally comprises a de-duplication process to determine contents which are identical and near duplicate, including a removal step of removing the contents which are identical and near duplicate, thereby selecting a preferred set of for presentation to the user as the final set of contents (2).
</claims>
</document>
