<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/10,G06K7/14,G06K9/00,G06Q20/12,G06Q30/06,G06T7/20,H04N5/247
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NCR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BJELCEVIC, STEFAN
LIEBERMAN, ADAM JUSTIN
ZUCKER, BRENT VANCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70459901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSTRUCTING SHOPPER CARTS USING VIDEO SURVEILLANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A system can visually track which items in a store are selected for purchase by a shopper. The system can form a virtual shopping cart by analyzing multiple images, over time, to determine which purchasable items are located with the shopper, such as in a physical shopping cart, in a basket, or held by the shopper. By analyzing multiple images, over time, the system can account for items misidentified in one or more images, or fully or partially obscured in one or more images as the shopper traverses the store. Alternatively, the system can form a virtual shopping cart by analyzing instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf or placed on a shelf. Items removed from, but not returned to, a shelf can be considered to be selected for purchase. The system can include a frictionless checkout that charges the shopper for the selected items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: automatically tracking, with video surveillance of a store, movement of a shopper throughout the store and items in the store selected for purchase by the shopper; and charging, through a frictionless check-out of the store, an account associated with the shopper for purchase of the selected items.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically tracking the items in the store selected for purchase by the shopper comprises: capturing images from at least one video stream of a shopping area of the store; automatically recognizing the shopper in a plurality of the captured images; visually identifying, from each of the plurality of captured images, purchasable items located within a bounding area around the shopper; and using a sliding time window for the plurality of captured images to correct purchasable items that are misidentified or obscured in one or more of the plurality of captured images.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein using the sliding time window comprises: automatically analyzing a plurality of historical images, the historical images being a specified number of images from the video stream captured immediately prior to a current captured image; and visually identifying an inventory of any purchasable items located within a bounding area around the shopper, for each historical image.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein using the sliding time window further comprises: identifying a misidentified inventory of a first historical image of the plurality of historical images, wherein an inventory of a historical image taken before the first historical image matches an inventory of a historical image taken after the first historical image but differs from the misidentified inventory of the first historical image.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein using the sliding time window further comprises: ignoring the misidentified inventory, such that the items selected for purchase match the inventories of the historical images taken before and after the first historical image.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the video surveillance of the store comprises: with at least one overhead camera directed generally downward, capturing at least one video stream of a shopping area of the store.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each overhead camera has a field of view that is centered within twenty degrees of a vertical axis.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein each overhead camera has a field of view that is centered within ten degrees of the vertical axis.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically tracking the items in the store selected for purchase by the shopper comprises: capturing images from at least one video stream of a shopping area of the store; automatically recognizing the shopper in a plurality of the captured images; and visually identifying, from the plurality of captured images, instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf or placed on a shelf, such that purchasable items removed from, but not returned to, a shelf are designated as selected for purchase.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein visually identifying the instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf comprises: visually identifying instances in which a purchasable item moves away from a shelf toward the shopper.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein visually identifying the instances in which a purchasable item is returned to a shelf comprises: visually identifying instances in which a purchasable item moves away from the shopper toward a shelf.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the video surveillance of the store comprises: with at least one camera directed generally horizontally, capturing at least one video stream of a shopping area of the store.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each camera has a field of view that is centered within twenty degrees of a horizontal axis.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein each camera has a field of view that is centered within ten degrees of the horizontal axis.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein charging the account associated with the shopper for purchase of the selected items comprises at least one of: receiving input of data corresponding to a credit card number from the shopper; receiving a credit card swipe; reading a radiofrequency identification tag that corresponds to the shopper and retrieving, from a server, a stored credit number that corresponds to the shopper; scanning a visual code that corresponds to the shopper and retrieving, from a server, a stored credit number that corresponds to the shopper; or scanning a biometric indicator that corresponds to the shopper and retrieving, from a server, a stored credit number that corresponds to the shopper.
16. A system, comprising: at least one video camera positioned to capture at least one video stream of a store; a video interface configured to receive the at least one video stream; and a processor coupled to the video interface and configured to execute computing instructions to perform data processing activities, the data processing activities comprising: automatically tracking, from the at least one video stream, movement of a shopper throughout the store and items in the store selected for purchase by the shopper; and charging, through a frictionless check-out of the store, an account associated with the shopper for purchase of the selected items.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein: each video camera has a field of view centered around a downward-facing generally vertical axis; and automatically tracking the items in the store comprises: visually identifying an inventory of any purchasable items located within a bounding area around the shopper, for multiple images from the video stream; and relying on a sliding window of images from the video stream to correct a misidentified inventory of an image from the video stream.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein: each video camera has a field of view centered around a generally horizontal axis; and automatically tracking the items in the store comprises automatically visually identifying instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf or placed on a shelf, such that purchasable items removed from, but not returned to, a shelf are designated as selected for purchase.
19. A method, comprising: capturing images from a plurality of video streams from a plurality of video cameras directed at a shopping area of a store; automatically recognizing a shopper in a plurality of the captured images; automatically tracking, from the plurality of captured images, items in the store selected for purchase by the shopper; visually identifying, from the plurality of captured images, instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf or placed on a shelf, such that purchasable items removed from, but not returned to, a shelf are designated as selected for purchase; and charging, through a frictionless check-out of the store, an account associated with the shopper for purchase of the selected items.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: visually identifying the instances in which a purchasable item is removed from a shelf comprises visually identifying instances in which a purchasable item moves away from a shelf toward the shopper; and visually identifying the instances in which a purchasable item is returned to a shelf comprises visually identifying instances in which a purchasable item moves away from the shopper toward a shelf.
</claims>
</document>
