<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F9/08,A63H33/10,G06F3/01,G06T17/10,G06T19/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
City University 0f Hong Kong
</assignee>

<inventors>
Zhu, Kening
Han, Feng
Chen, Taizhou
Wu, Yi-Shiun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916511
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CREATING HAPTIC PROXIES FOR USE IN VIRTUAL REALITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods which provide for interactive haptic proxies for hand-graspable virtual reality (VR) objects using reconfigurable artifacts and facilitated through use of a haptic reconfigurable artifact toolkit are described. Embodiments provide a haptic reconfigurable artifact toolkit including a set of reconfigurable artifacts for use in forming reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies, a set of haptic hardware components for use with respect to reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies, and a haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform configured to facilitate generation of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies using items of the set of reconfigurable artifacts and the set of haptic hardware components. Reconfigurable artifacts may be shaped to form reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies covering a wide range of hand-grasp postures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for creating haptic proxies for use with respect to virtual reality, the system comprising: a set of reconfigurable artifacts comprising a plurality of reconfigurable artifacts that are configured to be shaped and assembled to represent different objects; a set of haptic hardware components comprising a plurality of hardware components selected from the group consisting of tracking hardware, input modules, and output modules; and a haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform configured to facilitate generation of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies using items of the set of reconfigurable artifacts and the set of haptic hardware components.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts comprise: a plurality of Rubick's Twist (RT) structures of different sizes.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the different sizes of the plurality of RT structures are different numbers of triangular prisms.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of reconfigurable artifacts further comprises: one or more connection structures providing structure configured to concatenate multiple reconfigurable artifacts.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the tracking hardware comprises: position trackers and tracker mounts configured to be used with one or more reconfigurable artifacts formed into a reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxy.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the input modules comprise at least one of: a push button; a switch; and a trigger.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the output modules comprise at least one of: a vibrator; a fan; and a thermoelectric element.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform comprises: a software plug-in configured for operation with a development engine executing on a host processor-based system.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is configured to generate reconfigurable artifact-based shapes based on three dimensional models and provide guidance for physical construction of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is further configured to annotate interactive input modules and output modules in the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shapes.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is further configured to export scripting scaffolds for annotated interactive input modules and output modules.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is configured to implement a process flow to generate reconfigurable artifact shape mapping based on geometric structures of three dimensional (3D) models.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the process flow performs voxelization of 3D model to provide a voxel collection, performs skeletonization and segmentation to provide segmented structure; and applies a rule-based repetitive prism placement algorithm to derive the reconfigurable artifact shape mapping.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the process flow implements a recursive algorithm for placement of prisms of a Rubick's Twist (RT) structure used as a reconfigurable artifact to generate a reconfigurable artifact-based shape.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the recursive algorithm applies an RT rule for four types of rotations of the prisms of the RT structure.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the recursive algorithm determines placement of prisms of the RT structure based on a determination of a placement score for each possible placement of the four types of rotations.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the placement score is determined by a hyperbolic-paraboloid combination of a number of covered voxels and ray-cast hit voxels.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the recursive algorithm first uses a shortest reconfigurable artifact of the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts and then progressively longer ones of the reconfigurable artifacts of the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts in order to minimize a number of extra pieces.
19. A method for reconfigurable artifact shape mapping for creating haptic proxies from reconfigurable artifacts, the method comprising: providing a haptic reconfigurable artifact toolkit having a set of reconfigurable artifacts, a set of haptic hardware components, and a haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform configured to facilitate generation of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies using items of the set of reconfigurable artifacts and the set of haptic hardware components; generating, through operation of the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform, a reconfigurable artifact shape mapping based on a geometric structure of a three dimensional (3D) model to provide a generated reconfigurable artifact-based shape for use with one or more reconfigurable artifacts of the set of reconfigurable artifacts; and annotating, using the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform, on the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shape at least one interactive module of the set of hardware components.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the set of reconfigurable artifacts comprises a plurality of reconfigurable artifacts that are configured to be shaped and assembled to represent different objects.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts comprise a plurality of twistable artifacts, and wherein generating the reconfigurable artifact shape mapping comprises: determining placement of prisms of twistable artifacts using rules for rotations of the prisms.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the set of hardware components comprises one or more of an input module or an output module configured for use on a reconfigurable artifact of the set of reconfigurable artifacts when formed in the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shape.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the set of hardware components comprises at least one position tracker, the method further comprising: indicating an attachment position of a position tracker of the set of hardware components on the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shape.
24. The method of claim 19, further comprising: executing code of the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform as a development engine plug-in executing on a host processor-based system.
25. The method of claim 19, further comprising: exporting, by the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform, scripting scaffolds for annotated interactive input modules and output modules.
26. The method of claim 19, wherein the generating the reconfigurable artifact shape mapping based on the geometric structure of the 3D model to provide the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shape comprises: performing voxelization of the 3D model to provide a voxel collection; performing skeletonization and segmentation to provide segmented structure; and applying a rule-based repetitive prism placement algorithm to derive the reconfigurable artifact shape mapping.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the applying the rule-based repetitive prism placement algorithm comprises: implementing a recursive algorithm for placement of prisms of a Rubick's Twist (RT) structure used as a reconfigurable artifact to generate a reconfigurable artifact-based shape.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein implementing the recursive algorithm comprises: determining a placement score for each possible placement of four types of rotations of prisms of the RT structure; and determining placement of prisms of the RT structure based on the placement score for each possible placement of the four types of rotations.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the determining the placement score comprises: determining a hyperbolic-paraboloid combination of a number of covered voxels and ray-cast hit voxels.
30. The method of claim 27, wherein the recursive algorithm first uses a shortest reconfigurable artifact of the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts and then progressively longer ones of the reconfigurable artifacts of the plurality of reconfigurable artifacts in order to minimize a number of extra pieces.
31. A system for creating haptic proxies for use with respect to virtual reality, the system comprising: a set of reconfigurable artifacts comprising a plurality of Rubick's Twist (RT) structures of different sizes that are configured to be shaped and assembled to represent different objects; a set of haptic hardware components comprising tracking hardware, one or more input modules, and one or more output modules; and a haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform configured to facilitate generation of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies using items of the set of reconfigurable artifacts and the set of haptic hardware components by generating reconfigurable artifact-based shapes based on three dimensional (3D) models, providing guidance for physical construction of reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxies, and annotating interactive input modules and output modules in the generated reconfigurable artifact-based shapes.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the different sizes of the plurality of RT structures are different numbers of triangular prisms.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the set of reconfigurable artifacts further comprises: one or more connection structures providing structure configured to concatenate multiple reconfigurable artifacts.
34. The system of claim 31, wherein the tracking hardware comprises: position trackers and tracker mounts configured to be used with one or more reconfigurable artifacts formed into a reconfigurable artifact-based haptic proxy.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein the one or more input modules comprise at least one of: a push button; a switch; and a trigger.
36. The system of claim 31, wherein the one or more output modules comprise at least one of: a vibrator; a fan; and a thermoelectric element.
37. The system of claim 31, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform comprises: a software plug-in configured for operation with a development engine executing on a host processor-based system.
38. The system of claim 31, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is further configured to export scripting scaffolds for annotated interactive input modules and output modules.
39. The system of claim 31, wherein the haptic reconfigurable artifact software platform is configured to implement a process flow to generate reconfigurable artifact shape mapping based on geometric structures of the 3D models.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein the process flow performs voxelization of 3D model to provide a voxel collection, performs skeletonization and segmentation to provide segmented structure; and applies a rule-based repetitive prism placement algorithm to derive the reconfigurable artifact shape mapping.
41. The system of claim 39, wherein the process flow implements a recursive algorithm for placement of prisms of a RT structure used as a reconfigurable artifact to generate a reconfigurable artifact-based shape.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein the recursive algorithm determines placement of prisms of the RT structure based on a determination of a placement score for each possible placement of four types of rotations of the prisms of the RT structure, wherein the placement score is determined by a hyperbolic-paraboloid combination of a number of covered voxels and ray-cast hit voxels.
</claims>
</document>
