<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B90/00,A61B90/30,G06F21/32,G06T7/00,G06T7/20,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENTEX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
VARGAS SILVA, CARLOS EDUARDO
ZAPATA, JORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74037404
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ILLUMINATION SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OBJECT TRACKING
</title>

<abstract>
An illumination system for monitoring and illuminating an operating region comprises at least one light assembly comprising at least one illumination source configured to selectively direct a light emission in a portion of the operating region. At least one imager is configured to capture image data in a field of view in the operating region. A controller is in communication with the light assembly and the imager. The controller is configured to process image data captured in the field of view and identify a plurality of objects detected in the image data based on an object library. Track a location of each of the plurality of objects and store the location of each of the objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An illumination system for monitoring and illuminating an operating region, the system comprising: at least one light assembly comprising at least one illumination source configured to selectively direct a light emission in a portion of the operating region; at least one imager configured to capture image data in a field of view in the operating region; a controller in communication with the light assembly and the imager, wherein the controller is configured to: process image data captured in the field of view; identify a plurality of objects detected in the image data based on an object library; track a location of each of the plurality of objects; and store the location of each of the objects.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine an identity of a plurality of persons in the operating region.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine whether the plurality of persons are authorized personnel based the identity of each of the plurality of persons.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: track a distance traveled by one or more of the objects in the operating region.
5. The system according to claim 4, wherein distance is tracked based on an accumulated motion of the one or more objects based on an accumulated motion of the one or more of the objects identified in the operating region.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the controller is further configured to identify high motion objects based on an extent of the accumulated motion.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: track a relative motion of two or more tracked objects of the plurality of objects identified in the image data.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: identify a line of sight of at least one person in the image data and control the at least one lighting assembly to illuminate a portion of the line of sight at a predetermined distance from the at least one person.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the line of sight is identified in the image data based on a location of the person in the operating region and an orientation of a head of the person.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: identify an intersection between a line of sight of at least one person and at least one additional object of the plurality of objects or an area identified in the image data.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to: control the lighting assembly to illuminate the intersection between the line of sight and the at least one additional object.
12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: access object information identifying associated objects preapproved for use in the operating region.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the controller is further configured to: compare the identified objects to the preapproved objects; and based on the comparison, identify unexpected objects in the library that are not preapproved.
14. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: detect unidentified objects in the image data that are not included in the object library.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to: in response to detecting the unidentified objects, record teaching image data including representative characteristics of the unidentified objects, wherein the controller is configured to process the teaching image data and attribute identities to the unidentified objects.
16. An illumination system for monitoring and illuminating an operating region, comprising: at least one light assembly comprising an illumination source configured to selectively direct a light emission in a portion of the operating region; at least one imager configured to capture image data in a field of view in the operating region; a controller in communication with the light assembly and the imager, wherein the controller is configured to: process image data captured in the field of view; identify a plurality of objects detected in the image data based on an object library and access object information for the plurality of objects; and complete a balance determination of each of the plurality of objects over a period of time, wherein the balance determination identifies a disposal, storage, or implant location of each of the objects.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the balance determination compares the objects identified in the image data to assigned locations identified in the object information, and the controller is further configured to: identify an imbalance based on the balance determination, wherein the imbalance comprises an indication that one of the objects is not positioned in the assigned location associated with the object.
18. An Illumination apparatus configured to illuminate an operating region, the apparatus comprising: at least one light assembly comprising at least one illumination source configured to selectively direct at least one light emission in a portion of the operating region; at least one imager configured to capture image data in a field of view in the operating region; a controller in communication with the light assembly and the imager, wherein the controller is configured to: process image data captured in the field of view; identify a plurality of objects detected in the image data based on an object library and access object information for the plurality of objects, wherein the object data identifies the plurality of objects as associated objects preapproved for use in the operating region; compare the identified objects to the associated objects identified in the object information; based on the comparison, identify an unexpected object in the library that is not identified as preapproved based on the object data; and in response to the identification of the unexpected object, illuminate the unexpected object with the at least one light emission.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein the at least one illumination source comprises a plurality of illumination sources configured to illuminate objects in the operating region in a first emission having first color and second emission having a second color, wherein the first emission is projected into the operating region and illuminates a target area and the second emission is directed to and illuminates the unexpected object.
20. The system according to claim 18, wherein the controller is further configured to: detect unidentified objects in the image data that are not included in the object library.
</claims>
</document>
