<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R25/104,B60R25/24,B60R25/30,G06F21/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SASTRY, MANOJ
JULIATO, MARCIO
AHMED SHABBIR
GUTIERREZ, CHRISTOPHER
Wang, Qian
Lesi, Vuk
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549514
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
One-Point Relative Voltage Fingerprinting
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods to identify an electronic control unit transmitting a message on a communication bus, such as an in-vehicle network bus, are provided. ECUs transmit messages by manipulating voltage on conductive lines of the bus. Observation circuitry can observe voltage transitions associated with the transmission at a point on the in-vehicle network bus. A domain bitmap can be generated from the observed voltage transitions. ECUs can be identified and/or fingerprinted based on the domain bitmaps.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: processing circuitry; and memory coupled to the processing circuitry, the memory comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: process a voltage waveform to generate an observed domain bitmap from the voltage waveform, determine whether the observed domain bitmap matches a fingerprint domain bitmap from a fingerprint, and identify an electronic control unit (ECU) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: compare the observed domain bitmap to a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps from the fingerprint, the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps comprising the fingerprint domain bitmap; and determine whether the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap based on comparing the observed domain bitmap to the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the observed domain bitmap comprising one or more of a rising edge domain bitmap, a falling edge domain bitmap, a steady state domain bitmap, or a combination rising, falling, and steady state bitmap.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: identify a message transmitted on a communication bus; observe voltage transitions on the communication bus associated with transmission of the message; and generate the voltage waveform based on the observed voltage transitions.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the communication bus is an in-vehicle network.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising observation circuitry arranged to observe the voltage transitions at a point on the communication bus.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: look up an ECU identification (ID) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap; and identify the ECU based on the ECU ID.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the memory comprising the fingerprint, the fingerprint comprising a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps and a plurality of ECU IDs associated with the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to flag an unidentified ECU based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap does not match the fingerprint domain bitmap.
10. A system, comprising: at least one electronic control unit (ECU); and an ECU identification sub-system coupled to the at least one ECU via an in-vehicle network (IVN), the ECU identification sub-system comprising: processing circuitry; and memory coupled to the processing circuitry, the memory comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: process a voltage waveform observed on the IVN to generate an observed domain bitmap from the voltage waveform, determine whether the observed domain bitmap matches a fingerprint domain bitmap from a fingerprint, and identify an electronic control unit (ECU) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap.
11. The system of claim 10, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: compare the observed domain bitmap to a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps from the fingerprint, the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps comprising the fingerprint domain bitmap; and determine whether the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap based on comparing the observed domain bitmap to the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
12. The system of claim 10, the observed domain bitmap comprising one or more of a rising edge domain bitmap, a falling edge domain bitmap, a steady state domain bitmap, and a combination rising, falling, and steady state bitmap.
13. The system of claim 10, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: identify a message transmitted on a communication bus; observe voltage transitions on the communication bus associated with transmission of the message; and generate the voltage waveform based on the observed voltage transitions.
14. The system of claim 10, the ECU identification sub-system comprising observation circuitry arranged to observe the voltage transitions at a point on the communication bus.
15. The system of claim 10, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: look up an ECU identification (ID) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap; and identify the ECU based on the ECU ID.
16. The system of claim 10, the memory comprising the fingerprint, the fingerprint comprising a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps and a plurality of ECU IDs associated with the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
17. The system of claim 10, the instructions when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to flag an unidentified ECU based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap does not match the fingerprint domain bitmap or that a known ECU is sending messages as another ECU.
18. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage device comprising instructions that when executed by processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: process a voltage waveform observed on an in-vehicle network (IVN) to generate an observed domain bitmap from the voltage waveform; determine whether the observed domain bitmap matches a fingerprint domain bitmap from a fingerprint; and identify an electronic control unit (ECU) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 18, comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: compare the observed domain bitmap to a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps from the fingerprint, the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps comprising the fingerprint domain bitmap; and determine whether the observed domain bitmap matched the fingerprint domain bitmap based on comparing the observed domain bitmap to the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 18, the observed domain bitmap comprising one or more of a rising edge domain bitmap, a falling edge domain bitmap, and a steady state domain bitmap.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 18, comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: identify a message transmitted on a communication bus; observe voltage transitions on the communication bus associated with transmission of the message; and generate the voltage waveform based on the observed voltage transitions.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 21, wherein the communication bus is an in-vehicle network.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 21, comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to: look up an ECU identification (ID) associated with the fingerprint domain bitmap; and identify the ECU based on the ECU ID.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 21, the fingerprint comprising a plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps and a plurality of ECU IDs associated with the plurality of fingerprint domain bitmaps.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable storage device of claim 21, comprising instructions that when executed by the processing circuitry cause the processing circuitry to flag an unidentified ECU based on a determination that the observed domain bitmap does not match the fingerprint domain bitmap.
</claims>
</document>
