<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHNSON CONTROLS TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, YOUNG M.
DREES, KIRK, H.
BOETTCHER, ANDREW J.
PIASKOWSKI, RYAN A.
CURTIS, DANIEL M.
ALBINGER, DONALD R.
REICHENBERGER, KARL F.
SCHUBERT, SHAWN D.
VENKITESWARAN, VAIDHYANATHAN
NESLER, CLAY G.
SAWYER, JASON T.
GOYAL, SIDDHARTH
MARTIN, WALTER
SENECZKO, TOM M.
GALVEZ, MIGUEL
SINHA, SUDHI R
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726976
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BUILDING SYSTEM WITH PERFORMANCE IDENTIFICATION THROUGH EQUIPMENT EXERCISING AND ENTITY RELATIONSHIPS
</title>

<abstract>
A building system of a building including one or more memory devices configured to store one or more instructions that, when executed on one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to exercise a building entity causing building entity data to be generated associated with the building entity, the building entity data indicating a result of exercising the building entity and collect the building entity data. The instructions cause the one or more processors to identify, based on a relational model, one or more relationships between one or more building entities and the building entity, wherein the one or more relationships indicate that exercising the building entity affects operation of the one or more building entities and identify that the building is experiencing a performance issue by analyzing the building entity data and the one or more relationships.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A building system of a building comprising: one or more memory devices configured to store one or more instructions that, when executed on one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: exercise a building entity causing building entity data to be generated associated with the building entity, the building entity data indicating a result of exercising the building entity; collect the building entity data; identify, based on a relational model, one or more relationships between one or more building entities and the building entity, wherein the one or more relationships indicate that exercising the building entity affects operation of the one or more building entities; and identify that the building is experiencing a performance issue by analyzing the building entity data and the one or more relationships.
2. The building system of claim 1, wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to identify the performance issue by analyzing at least second building entity data of the one or more building entities, wherein performance of the building entity is related to performance of the one or more building entities.
3. The building system of claim 1, wherein the relational model is a building graph; wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to: receive at least a portion of the building graph, the building graph comprising a plurality of nodes representing a plurality of building entities and a plurality of edges between the plurality of nodes representing relationships between the plurality of building entities; and identify, based on the portion of the building graph, the one or more building entities by identifying a particular edges of the plurality of edges between a first node of the plurality of nodes representing the building entity and one or more second nodes of the plurality of nodes representing the one or more building entities.
4. The building system of claim 1, wherein the building entity is a space of the building; wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to exercise the building entity by operating building equipment associated with the space of the building.
5. The building system of claim 1, wherein the one or more memory devices are devices of at least one of: a cloud platform located remote from the building entity and configured to collect the building entity data via one or more networks; an on-premises server located within the building, wherein the building entity is located within the building, wherein the on-premises server is configured to receive the building entity data via one or more building networks of the building; a gateway device located within the building, the gateway device configured to collect the building entity data via the one or more building networks and push at least one of the building entity data an indication of the performance issue to a building control platform; or a piece of building equipment, wherein the building entity and the one or more building entities are components of the piece of building equipment.
6. The building system of claim 1, wherein the performance issue is at least one of an equipment fault, a configuration error, or a user error.
7. The building system of claim 1, wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to: perform a plurality of building entity exercises, wherein each exercise of the plurality of building entity exercises causes particular building entity data to be generated; in response to completing each of the plurality of building entity exercises: determine whether the performance issue is identified by the particular building entity data of the exercise and one or more results of one or more previous exercises of the plurality of building entity exercises; and perform a subsequent exercise in response to a determination that the performance issue is not identified by the particular building entity data and the one or more results of the one or more previous exercises.
8. The building system of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of building entity exercises corresponds to one control level of a plurality of control levels of a control algorithm.
9. The building system of claim 1, wherein the building entity is a first building subsystem of a plurality of building subsystems comprising a plurality of pieces of equipment; wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to: collect subsystem data of the plurality of building subsystems; identify each of the plurality of building subsystems based on the subsystem data; identify the first building subsystem of the plurality of building subsystems experiencing the performance issue by analyzing the subsystem data; and identify one piece of equipment of the plurality of pieces of equipment of the building based on equipment data of the plurality of pieces of equipment in response to an identification of the first building subsystem experiencing the performance issue.
10. The building system of claim 9, wherein the one or more instructions cause the one or more processors to: identify the first building subsystem experiencing the performance issue by comparing the subsystem data to other subsystem data of buildings similar to the building; and identify the one piece of equipment of the plurality of pieces of equipment based on the equipment data by comparing the equipment data to other equipment data of equipment similar to the one piece of equipment of the buildings similar to the building.
11. The building system of claim 1, further comprising a building device comprising a processing circuit configured to: collect building device data of the building device, the building device data indicating operations of the building device and environmental conditions measured by a sensor of the building device; perform a self-analysis with the building device data to determine a device performance flag indicating performance of the building device; and send, via a network, the building device data with the device performance flag to at least one of an artificial intelligence (AI) platform or the one or more processors.
12. The building system of claim 11, wherein the processing circuit of the building device comprises a memory device configured to store manufacturer data indicating design characteristics of the building device; wherein the processing circuit of the building device is configured to send, via the network, the manufacturer data to at least one the AI platform or the one or more processors.
13. The building system of claim 11, wherein the processing circuit of the building device is configured to: determine whether the one or more memory devices store a filter and one or more filter parameters for the filter; filter the environmental conditions with the filter and the one or more filter parameters in response to a determination that the one or more memory devices store the filter; generate a filter flag based on whether the one or more memory devices store the filter and the one or more filter parameters for the filter; and send, via the network, the building device data with the device performance flag and the filter flag to at least one of the AI platform or the one or more processors.
14. The building system of claim 11, wherein the processing circuit of the building device is configured to: perform a calibration of the building device and record a calibration time indication identifying when the building device was calibrated; generate a calibration flag based on the calibration time indication; and send, via the network, the device performance flag and the calibration flag to at least one of the AI platform or the one or more processors.
15. A method of a building system comprising: exercising, by one or more processing circuits, a building entity of a building causing building entity data to be generated associated with the building entity, the building entity data indicating a result of exercising the building entity; collecting, by the one or more processing circuits, the building entity data; identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, based on a relational model, one or more relationships between one or more building entities and the building entity, wherein the one or more relationships indicate that exercising the building entity affects operation of the one or more building entities; and identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, that the building is experiencing a performance issue by analyzing the building entity data and the one or more relationships.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, the performance issue by analyzing at least second building entity data of the one or more building entities, wherein performance of the building entity is related to performance of the one or more building entities.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the relational model is a building graph; wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the one or more processing circuits, at least a portion of the building graph, the building graph comprising a plurality of nodes representing a plurality of building entities and a plurality of edges between the plurality of nodes representing relationships between the plurality of building entities; and identifying, by the one or more processing circuits, based on the portion of the building graph, the one or more building entities by identifying one or more particular edges of the plurality of edges between a first node of the plurality of nodes representing the building entity and a one or more second nodes of the plurality of nodes representing the one or more building entities.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the building entity is a space of the building; wherein the method further comprises exercising, by the one or more processing circuits, the building entity by operating building equipment associated with the space of the building.
19. A building management system of a building comprising: one or more memory devices configured to store instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions causing the one or more processors to: exercise a building entity causing building entity data to be generated associated with the building entity, the building entity data indicating a result of exercising the building entity; collect the building entity data; identify, based on a relational model, one or more relationships between one or more building entities and the building entity, wherein the one or more relationships indicate that exercising the building entity affects operation of the one or more building entities; exercise the one or more building entities to generate second building entity data; and identify that the building is experiencing a performance issue by analyzing the building entity data and the second building entity data.
20. The building management system of claim 19, wherein the one or more processors are configured to execute the instructions causing the one or more processors to: identify a data analysis problem associated with the building entity data; select an anomaly detection model from a plurality of anomaly detection models based on the data analysis problem, wherein each of the plurality of anomaly detection models is associated with one data analysis problem of a plurality of data analysis problems; determine an anomaly score for the building entity data based on the anomaly detection model and the building entity data; and ingest the building entity data with an artificial intelligence (AI) service in response to a determination that the anomaly score is less than a predefined level.
</claims>
</document>
