<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04W24/00,H04W4/02,H04W4/14,H04W4/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59631338
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multicast expert system information dissemination system and method
</title>

<abstract>
Multicast expert system information dissemination systems and methods making use of artificial intelligence are provided. The systems and methods include a wireless device for receiving RF multicast information messages from a content provider wherein said information is descriptive of objects potentially of interest to users of the device. Received multicast messages may include information parameters about objects of potentially interest to the user. The wireless device also includes a knowledge base prestored in the wireless device descriptive of the user's level of interest in various objects. Artificial intelligence expert system control is used to evaluate a combination of the user's level of interest in the object information and distance from the user to the location where the object may be obtained. The artificial intelligence expert system derives a user advisory action index. In one embodiment the artificial intelligence may be implemented using fuzzy logic inference engine apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device with at least one specialized communication computer machine comprising: a non-transient memory having at least one portion for storing data and artificial intelligence expert system executable program code; at least one computer processor for executing said artificial intelligence expert system computer program code stored in said memory; electronic circuitry for generation of information data signal parameters indicating the location of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device; at least one contained or connected sensor for monitoring one or more selected objects and/or situations of interest to a user of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device and generating information data signals comprising selected parameters descriptive of said selected objects and/or situations; at least one RF transceiver for signal reception of further information data signals comprising selected parameters descriptive of further selected objects and/or situations including selected objects and/or situations available from a content provider and indicated to said content provider as being of interest to said user, including the location of said objects and/or situations; electronic circuitry of said programmed wireless device communication computer system device configured to perform at least the following operations: storing said device location, object and/or situation location, and contained or connected sensor and RF receiver information data signal parameters in a database; accessing said database information parameters; artificial intelligence expert system analysis comprising evaluation of said information data signal parameter values and categorization of said values into expert system defined parameter ranges; artificial intelligence expert system further analysis of said accessed database information parameters based on combinations of parameter ranges comprising user location and at least one of contained or connected sensor signal parameters, at least two of said received RF signal parameters including the location of said content provider objects and/or situations of interest, with expert defined propositional logic inference rules defining multiple conditional relationships of said parameters; and artificial intelligence expert system generation of advisory action indices providing the user recommended actions based on said artificial intelligence expert system analysis without disclosing the location of said user to said content provider thereby protecting user privacy.
2. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said wireless device is a cellular telephone, laptop computer, tablet computer or other communication device operable within a motor vehicle.
3. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said electronic circuitry for generation of information data signal parameters indicating the location of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device comprises GPS signal reception and analysis circuitry, cellular telephone transmitter location triangulation analysis circuitry, and/or Wi-Fi signal transmitter proximity analysis circuitry.
4. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said transceiver comprises a multicast signal receiver.
5. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said contained or connected sensor information data signals comprise image signals and/or audio signals.
6. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said device is located in a vehicle and said database information further comprises additional information stored in other vehicle control and information data files including one or more of vehicle operational status, speed, odometer readings, engine performance, fuel levels and/or warning signals, wherein said additional information is available for use in said artificial intelligence expert system generation of said advisory action indices.
7. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein artificial intelligence expert system derivation of user advisory action indices emulates human reasoning and minimizes cognitive distraction of said user required for evaluation and determination of preferred courses of action based on said parameter values for said selected objects and/or situations of interest to said user.
8. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein database further comprises one or more parameter history files comprising said contained or connected sensor signal parameters and received RF signal parameters descriptive of selected objects and/or situations of interest to said user.
9. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising speech/text conversion capability.
10. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device sensors of claim 1 further comprising multiple microphones.
11. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device sensors of claim 1 further comprising directional beam-forming microphones.
12. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said RF transceiver comprises a cellular telephone transceiver, a Bluetooth transceiver, a Wi-Fi transceiver and/or other communication or control signals transceivers.
13. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 12 wherein said Bluetooth and/or Wi-Fi transceivers are used for short range voice or data communications with other devices near said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device.
14. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said artificial intelligence expert system analysis further comprises fuzzy logic inference analysis.
15. The database information descriptive of said selected objects and/or situations of interest to said user of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising one or more of system software for accessing system parameters, control information, status information, history, audio recordings, video recordings, image recordings, operational information, contact information, Internet addresses, telephone numbers, received messages, alarm signals and/or other information useful in the artificial intelligence expert system operations.
16. The database information descriptive of said selected objects and/or situations of interest to said selected user of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 being either partially or completely located remote from specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device as part of a remote server configuration, distributed database or in other distributed cloud-based computing and information storage systems.
17. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising one or more RF transceivers and directional and/or omnidirectional antennae.
18. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said RF signals from said content provider are further communicated via an information aggregator or service provider.
19. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 4 wherein multiple of users of multiple of said devices are organized into one or more subgroups with common interests to receive RF multicast signal advisory messages intended for individual subgroups without requiring said users disclosing their location to the content provider.
20. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein an object or situation of interest to the user of said device and available from a content provider is available at a location different than the location of the content provider.
21. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said received RF signals comprising further content descriptive information data signals are limited to coverage areas in defined proximity to the location of said content provider objects and/or situations of interest to said user and further wherein said limited defined coverage area from said objects and/or situations of interest further provides: (1) reduction of required signal spectrum in areas too far from the object or situation to be of interest to any user resulting in more efficient use of the RF signal spectrum; (2) minimization of signal transmission power requirements; and (3) minimization of signal processing requirements of users too far from the object or situation of interest and users not interested in said object or situation.
22. The user of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 being in a vehicle and wherein the location of said vehicle and the location of said content provider objects and/or situations of interest to said user are used to determine travel time parameters from said user location to said content provider objects and/or situations taking into account road conditions, traffic or other factors that may influence the travel time for said vehicle, and wherein said travel time parameters may be used in said described artificial intelligence expert system analysis including derivation of said advisory action indices.
23. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 12 further comprising a data transceiver for communication with other devices, said data transceiver being in addition to the other Cellular, Bluetooth and/or Wi-Fi transceivers of said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device, wherein said data transceiver operates on different frequency bands, uses different signaling protocols, and/or uses different signal modulation formats including various forms of amplitude modulation, frequency modulation, phase modulation or various combinations of these techniques other than that used by said Cellular, Bluetooth and/or Wi-Fi transceivers.
24. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising receipt of accurate timing signals for monitoring elapsed time of specified device travel distance, history file recording of event time of occurrence, and/or insuring synchronized timing when responding to said content provider time limited availability of selected objects and/or situations of interest to said user.
25. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising a source of power derived from energy from the vehicle electrical power supply source or a separate battery or energy supply including, without limitation, solar energy, energy derived from external impinging electromagnetic waves, or energy derived from motor vehicle mechanical operations such as breaking or coasting.
26. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 further comprising operational integration with other user accessible display systems.
27. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 wherein said device is located in a vehicle and paired with vehicle telecommunication devices via telecommunication links such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or other links permitting voice and/or data communication signals transmitted to and from said specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device to be relayed through said vehicle telecommunication devices.
28. The specifically programmed wireless communication computer system device of claim 1 and further comprising hands-free operation with speech-to-text and text-to-speech conversion capability for answering and placing voice or text communications via an external network using voice commands only without requiring a vehicle driver to hand-manipulate telecommunications or cellular telephone equipment while driving.
</claims>
</document>
