<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOMKINSON, TODD HARDING
GERWE, DAVID RODERICK
RIVERA, MARK A.
Garrison, William Thomas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63854536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR HYPER-SPECTRAL SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A hyperspectral analysis computer device is provided. The hyperspectral analysis computer device includes at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device. The hyperspectral analysis computer device is configured to store a plurality of spectral analysis data, receive at least one background item and at least one item to be detected from a user, generate one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data, receive one or more mission parameters from the user, and determine a probability of success based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hyperspectral analysis computer device comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, said hyperspectral analysis computer device programmed to: store a plurality of spectral analysis data; receive, from a user interface, at least one background item, at least one item to be detected, and one or more mission parameters; and generate a plurality of images based on a distribution of simulated individual pixel measurements associated with the one or more mission parameters and the plurality of spectral analysis data, wherein the plurality of images comprise a plurality of random pixel mixtures associated with the at least one background item to train a program to recognize the at least one item to detect.
2. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to: generate one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data; and compare the one or more mission parameters to the generated one or more spectral bands to determine whether the at least one item will be detected.
3. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 2, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to determine a probability of success of detection based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
4. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the plurality of spectral analysis data comprises at least one of a Fourier transform imaging spectroscopy model, a dispersive sensor model, a moderate resolution atmospheric transmission model, band, and geometry, a plurality of previously modeled terrain and urban materials, or a plurality of previously modeled gaseous and solid targets.
5. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to determine atmospherics data and terrain data associated with on the at least one background item, wherein the terrain data comprises at least one of ground cover, geographic features, or human artifacts.
6. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to create individual pixels in the plurality of images with statistical properties based on known properties of at least one of the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, or the one or more mission parameters.
7. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to generate the plurality of images to comprise at least one of sensor or noise models.
8. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to generate the plurality of images to simulate a hypercube scene.
9. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to generate the plurality of images based on at least one of previously generated hyperspectral images, one or more images of similar environment, one or more images comprising a similar item of interest, or one or more images previously captured by a hyperspectral system.
10. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 9, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further programmed to: generate a first plurality of images based on at least one item to be detected; generate a second plurality of images without the at least one item to be detected; transmit the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images to the hyperspectral system, wherein the hyperspectral system is programmed to analyze the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images; receive, from the hyperspectral system, results of the analysis; and determine an accuracy of the hyperspectral system based on the results of the analysis, the first plurality of images, and the second plurality of images.
11. A method, said method implemented using a hyperspectral analysis computer device, said hyperspectral analysis computer device comprising a processor in communication with a memory, said method comprising: storing, in the memory, a plurality of spectral analysis data; receiving first input data indicative of at least one background item and at least one item to be detected; receiving second input data indicative of one or more mission parameters; and generating, by the processor, a plurality of images based on a distribution of simulated individual pixel measurements associated with the one or more mission parameters and the plurality of spectral analysis data, wherein the plurality of images comprise a plurality of random pixel mixtures associated with the at least one background item to train a program to recognize the at least one item to detect.
12. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising: generating, by the processor, one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data; and comparing, by the processor, the one or more mission parameters to the generated one or more spectral bands to determine whether the at least one item will be detected.
13. A method in accordance with claim 12 further comprising determining a probability of success of detection based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
14. A method in accordance with claim 11, wherein the plurality of spectral analysis data comprises at least one of Fourier transform imaging spectroscopy models, dispersive sensor models, moderate resolution atmospheric transmission models, bands, and geometry, a plurality of previously modeled terrain and urban materials, or a plurality of previously modeled gaseous and solid targets.
15. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising determining atmospherics data and terrain data associated with on the at least one background item, wherein the terrain data comprises at least one of ground cover, geographic features, or human artifacts.
16. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising creating individual pixels in the plurality of images with statistical properties based on known properties of at least one of the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, or the one or more mission parameters.
17. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising generating the plurality of images to comprise at least one of sensor or noise models.
18. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising generating the plurality of images to simulate a hypercube scene.
19. A method in accordance with claim 11 further comprising generating the plurality of images based on at least one of previously generated hyperspectral images, one or more images of similar environment, one or more images comprising a similar item of interest, or one or more images previously captured by a hyperspectral system.
20. A method in accordance with claim 19 further comprising: generating a first plurality of images based on at least one item to be detected; generating a second plurality of images without the at least one item to be detected; transmitting the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images to a hyperspectral system, wherein the hyperspectral system is programmed to analyze the first plurality of images and the second plurality of images; receiving, from the hyperspectral system, results of the analysis; and determining an accuracy of the hyperspectral system based on the results of the analysis, the first plurality of images, and the second plurality of images.
</claims>
</document>
