<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/08,H04L12/24,H04L12/911,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOTAME SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDALA, OMAR T.
DUONG, HAO D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66327901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING DATA TRANSMISSIONS BASED ON A USER'S DIGITAL FOOTPRINT
</title>

<abstract>
One exemplary system can determine a digital footprint for a user. The system can determine a first transmission pattern in which first content was transmitted to a first user device based at least in part on the digital footprint. The system can determine training data that includes a relationship between (i) one or more characteristics of the first content and (ii) the first transmission pattern. The system can then train a machine-learning-model using the training data to enable the machine-learning-model to predict a second transmission pattern in which to transmit second content that is different from the first content. The system can provide the second content as input to the machine-learning-model to obtain the second transmission pattern as output from the machine-learning-model. The system can cause the second content to be transmitted to the first user device in accordance with the second transmission pattern, which may conserve computing resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processing device; and a memory device that includes instructions executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: determine a first transmission pattern in which first content was transmitted to a first user device of a user, wherein the first transmission pattern resulted in the user performing an Internet activity associated with the first content using a second user device; determine one or more characteristics of the first content; generate training data that includes a relationship between (i) the first transmission pattern and (ii) the one or more characteristics of the first content; and train a machine-learning-model using the training data to enable the machine-learning-model to predict a second transmission pattern in which to transmit second content that is different from the first content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first user device is an Internet-connected television, and wherein the second user device is a mobile phone, tablet, laptop computer, desktop computer, e-reader, or a wearable computer.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: generate a digital footprint for the user, wherein the digital footprint represents Internet activities performed by the user via one or more user devices; and determine the first transmission pattern based at least in part on the digital footprint.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first transmission pattern includes multiple transmissions of the first content to the first user device over the course of multiple days.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory device further comprises instructions executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: determine a plurality of patterns in which a plurality of content was transmitted to the first user device during a time period, wherein the plurality of patterns resulted in the second user device performing a plurality of Internet activities corresponding to the plurality of content; and train the machine-learning-model at least in part by using the plurality of patterns as the training data.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the Internet activity includes visiting a website.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first content and the second content are advertisements.
8. A method comprising: determining, by a processing device, a first transmission pattern in which first content was transmitted to a first user device of a user, wherein the first transmission pattern resulted in the user performing an Internet activity associated with the first content using a second user device; determining, by the processing device, one or more characteristics of the first content; generating, by the processing device, training data that includes a relationship between (i) the first transmission pattern and (ii) the one or more characteristics of the first content; and training, by the processing device, a machine-learning-model using the training data to enable the machine-learning-model to predict a second transmission pattern in which to transmit second content that is different from the first content.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first user device is an Internet-connected television, and wherein the second user device is a mobile phone, tablet, laptop computer, desktop computer, e-reader, or a wearable computer.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating a digital footprint for the user, wherein the digital footprint represents Internet activities performed by the user via one or more user devices; and determining the first transmission pattern based at least in part on the digital footprint.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the first transmission pattern includes multiple transmissions of the first content to the first user device over the course of multiple days.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining a plurality of patterns in which a plurality of content was transmitted to the first user device during a time period, wherein the plurality of patterns resulted in the second user device performing a plurality of Internet activities corresponding to the plurality of content; and training the machine-learning-model at least in part by using the plurality of patterns as the training data.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the Internet activity includes visiting a website.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the first content and the second content are advertisements.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising program code that is executable by a processing device for causing the processing device to: access training data that includes a relationship between (i) a first transmission pattern in which first content was transmitted to a first user device of a user and that resulted in the user performing an Internet activity associated with the first content using a second user device, and (ii) one or more characteristics of the first content; and train a machine-learning-model using the training data to enable the machine-learning-model to predict a second transmission pattern in which to transmit second content that is different from the first content.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising program code that is executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: determine the first transmission pattern; determine one or more characteristics of the first content; and generate the training data based on the first transmission pattern and the one or more characteristics of the first content.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first user device is an Internet-connected television, and wherein the second user device is a mobile phone, tablet, laptop computer, desktop computer, e-reader, or a wearable computer.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising program code that is executable by the processing device for causing the processing device to: generate a digital footprint for the user, wherein the digital footprint represents Internet activities performed by the user via one or more user devices; and determine the first transmission pattern based at least in part on the digital footprint.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first transmission pattern includes multiple transmissions of the first content to the first user device over the course of multiple days.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the training data includes a plurality of patterns in which a plurality of content was transmitted to the first user device during a time period, wherein the plurality of patterns resulted in the user performing a plurality of Internet activities corresponding to the plurality of content with the second user device, and wherein the machine-learning-model is trained at least in part by using the plurality of patterns as the training data.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the Internet activity includes visiting a web site, and wherein the first content and the second content are advertisements.
</claims>
</document>
