<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,B64D47/08,G05B13/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRONE RACING LEAGUE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GURY, RYAN
Skarica, Vedran
Restifo, Jordan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODULAR AUTONOMOUS DRONE
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous quadcopter has four motors, each motor coupled to a corresponding propeller and a flight controller coupled to the four motors to provide input to the four motors to control flight. The autonomous quadcopter also has a plurality of cameras and an Artificial Intelligence (AI) controller coupled to the plurality of cameras to receive input from the plurality of cameras, determine a flightpath for the autonomous quadcopter according to the input from the plurality of cameras, and provide commands to the flight controller to direct the flight controller to follow the flightpath.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous quadcopter comprising: four motors, each motor coupled to a corresponding propeller; a flight controller coupled to the four motors to provide input to the four motors to control flight of the autonomous quadcopter; a plurality of cameras; and an Artificial Intelligence (AI) controller coupled to the plurality of cameras to receive input from the plurality of cameras, determine a flightpath for the autonomous quadcopter according to the input from the plurality of cameras, and provide commands to the flight controller to direct the flight controller to follow the flightpath.
2. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 wherein the plurality of cameras includes three pairs of cameras, each pair of cameras configured to obtain a stereoscopic view of a different area around the autonomous quadcopter.
3. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 further comprising: a Radio Frequency (RF) communication circuit coupled to the flight controller, the RF communication circuit configured to receive external commands from a remote-control and provide the external commands to the flight controller to direct the flight controller to follow a remotely-selected flightpath, the external commands and the commands provided by the AI controller from a common command set.
4. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 3 wherein the autonomous quadcopter is configurable to receive either the external commands from the remote-control or the commands from the AI controller according to selection by a remote-control user.
5. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 wherein the AI controller is connected to the flight controller through a connector, the AI controller is removable from the autonomous quadcopter to reconfigure the autonomous quadcopter as a remote-controlled quadcopter.
6. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 further comprising one or more of: a gyroscopic sensor, accelerometer, a range sensor, coupled to provide input to the AI controller.
7. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 further comprising a hardware abstraction layer configured to separate interleaved camera output received from cameras of the plurality of cameras and to separately buffer deinterleaved output such that frames of an individual camera are separately buffered and available at a predetermined frame rate.
8. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 1 wherein the AI controller includes an AI master, scheduler, and libraries of routines provided by a Software Development Kit (SDK) provider and includes participant code generated by a participant using the SDK.
9. An autonomous quadcopter comprising: four motors, each motor coupled to a corresponding fixed-pitch propeller; a flight controller coupled to the four motors to provide input to the four motors to control flight of the autonomous quadcopter; a Radio Frequency (RF) communication circuit coupled to the flight controller, the RF communication circuit configured to receive external commands from a remote-control and provide the external commands to the flight controller to direct the flight controller to follow a remotely-selected flightpath in a remote-control mode; a plurality of stereoscopic cameras; and an Artificial Intelligence (AI) controller coupled to the plurality of stereoscopic cameras to receive input from the plurality of stereoscopic cameras, perform hardware abstraction on the input from the plurality of stereoscopic cameras, analyze abstracted input from the plurality of stereoscopic cameras to determine locations of objects around the autonomous quadcopter, determine a flight path for the autonomous quadcopter according to the locations of the objects, and provide commands to the flight controller to direct the flight controller to follow the flight path in an autonomous mode.
10. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 9 further comprising a connector between the AI controller and the flight controller for configuration of the autonomous quadcopter as autonomous with the AI controller connected or as remote-controlled with the AI controller disconnected from the flight controller.
11. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 9 wherein the plurality of stereoscopic cameras includes three stereoscopic cameras in different orientations with respect to the autonomous quadcopter.
12. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 11 further comprising one or more Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) sensors coupled to the AI controller to provide autonomous quadcopter motion data to the AI controller.
13. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 12 further comprising a rangefinder coupled to the AI controller, the rangefinder configured to determine distance between an object and the autonomous quadcopter.
14. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 13 wherein the AI controller includes a hardware abstraction layer configured to receive input from the plurality of stereoscopic cameras, the one or more IMU sensors, and the rangefinder, and to buffer sensor and camera data.
15. The autonomous quadcopter of claim 14 wherein the hardware abstraction layer is further configured to provide output to a plurality of motors of the autonomous quadcopter.
16. A method of operating a quadcopter comprising: generating a plurality of stereoscopic camera views for a plurality of fields of view around the quadcopter; providing the plurality of stereoscopic camera views to a hardware abstraction layer; deinterleaving of the plurality of stereoscopic camera views in the hardware abstraction layer; providing deinterleaved frames to an Artificial Intelligence (AI) module; generating object-location information for objects in the plurality of fields of view from the deinterleaved frames in the AI module; determining in the AI module a flight path for the quadcopter according to the object-location information; generating a plurality of commands in the AI module corresponding to the flight path; sending the plurality of commands from the AI module to a flight controller of the quadcopter; and controlling a plurality of motors of the quadcopter according to the plurality of commands such that the quadcopter follows the flight path.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the objects in the plurality of fields of view include other quadcopters and racecourse features, and wherein determining the flight path for the quadcopter includes determining the fastest flightpath to complete a racecourse without hitting the other quadcopters or racecourse features.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein determining the flight path for the quadcopter occurs autonomously, without input from a human pilot.
19. The method of claim 17 wherein sending the plurality of commands to the flight controller occurs over an interface that is coupled to a Radio Frequency (RF) receiver to alternatively receive commands from the RF receiver according to a common command set.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising disabling commands from the AI controller and enabling commands from the RF receiver in response to a command received by the RF receiver from a remote-control.
</claims>
</document>
