<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G11C5/06,G11C5/14,G11C7/10,G11C7/16,H01L27/12,H01L29/786
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUROKAWA, YOSHIYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59850207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE AND SYSTEM USING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
To provide a semiconductor device which can execute the product-sum operation. The semiconductor device includes a first memory cell, a second memory cell, and an offset circuit. First analog data is stored in the first memory cell, and reference analog data is stored in the second memory cell. The first memory cell and the second memory cell supply a first current and a second current, respectively, when a reference potential is applied as a selection signal. The offset circuit has a function of supplying a third current corresponding to a differential current between the first current and the second current. In the semiconductor device, the first memory and the second memory supply a fourth current and a fifth current, respectively, when a potential corresponding to second analog data is applied as a selection signal. By subtracting the third current from a differential current between the fourth current and the fifth current, a current that depends on the sum of products of the first analog data and the second analog data is obtained.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device comprising: a plurality of memory cells; a first circuit; a second circuit; a plurality of transistors; a plurality of capacitors; a plurality of wirings; a plurality of output terminals; and a third circuit, wherein one of the plurality of memory cells retains a potential corresponding to first analog data, wherein another of the plurality of memory cells retains a potential corresponding to second analog data, wherein the semiconductor device is a component of an artificial neural network, wherein the artificial neural network is capable of pattern recognition due to learning about a variety of input patterns when a connection strength is changed, wherein the first analog data serves as weight coefficients and the second analog data serves as neuron outputs, whereby the artificial neural network is capable of performing a weighting calculation of neuron outputs concurrently, and wherein data corresponding to results of the weighting calculation is obtained as output signals.
2. A semiconductor device comprising: a first memory cell; a second memory cell; a first circuit; a second circuit; a plurality of transistors; a plurality of capacitors; a plurality of wirings; a plurality of output terminals; and a third circuit, wherein the first memory cell retains a potential corresponding to a weight coefficient, wherein the second memory cell retains a potential corresponding to a neuron output, wherein the semiconductor device is capable of pattern recognition, and wherein the semiconductor device is capable of performing a weighting calculation of neuron outputs concurrently so as to obtain synapse inputs as output signals.
3. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the first circuit is electrically connected to a first wiring of the plurality of wirings, wherein the first circuit is configured to supply a first current to the first wiring, wherein a first terminal of a first transistor of the plurality of transistors is electrically connected to a first terminal of a second transistor of the plurality of transistors, wherein a gate of the first transistor is electrically connected to a second terminal of the second transistor, wherein the first terminal of the second transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring, wherein a first terminal of a third transistor of the plurality of transistors is electrically connected to the second terminal of the second transistor, and wherein a first terminal of a first capacitor of the plurality of capacitors is electrically connected to the gate of the first transistor.
4. The semiconductor device according to claim 3, wherein the first wiring is electrically connected to a first output terminal of the pluralities of output terminals, wherein the second circuit is electrically connected to a second wiring of the plurality of wirings, wherein the second circuit is configured to supply a second current to the second wiring, wherein the second wiring is electrically connected to a second output terminal of the pluralities of output terminals, and wherein the third circuit is configured to output a third current corresponding to a potential of the second wiring from the first wiring and the second wiring.
5. The semiconductor device according to claim 4, wherein the one of the plurality of memory cells is electrically connected to the first output terminal, and wherein the other of the plurality of memory cells is electrically connected to the second output terminal.
6. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of transistors have a same polarity.
7. The semiconductor device according to claim 1, wherein at least one channel formation region in the plurality of transistors comprises an oxide containing at least one of indium, an element M, and zinc, and wherein the element M is any one of aluminum, gallium, yttrium, and tin.
8. A semiconductor wafer comprising: a plurality of the semiconductor devices according to claim 1; and a region for dicing.
9. An electronic device comprising: the semiconductor device according to claim 1; and a housing.
10. The semiconductor device according to claim 2, wherein the first circuit is electrically connected to a first wiring of the plurality of wirings, wherein the first circuit is configured to supply a first current to the first wiring, wherein a first terminal of a first transistor of the plurality of transistors is electrically connected to a first terminal of a second transistor of the plurality of transistors, wherein a gate of the first transistor is electrically connected to a second terminal of the second transistor, wherein the first terminal of the second transistor is electrically connected to the first wiring, wherein a first terminal of a third transistor of the plurality of transistors is electrically connected to the second terminal of the second transistor, and wherein a first terminal of a first capacitor of the plurality of capacitors is electrically connected to the gate of the first transistor.
11. The semiconductor device according to claim 10, wherein the first wiring is electrically connected to a first output terminal of the pluralities of output terminals, wherein the second circuit is electrically connected to a second wiring of the plurality of wirings, wherein the second circuit is configured to supply a second current to the second wiring, wherein the second wiring is electrically connected to a second output terminal of the pluralities of output terminals, and wherein the third circuit is configured to output a third current corresponding to a potential of the second wiring from the first wiring and the second wiring.
12. The semiconductor device according to claim 11, wherein the first memory cell is electrically connected to the first output terminal, and wherein the second memory cell is electrically connected to the second output terminal.
13. The semiconductor device according to claim 2, wherein the plurality of transistors have a same polarity.
14. The semiconductor device according to claim 2, wherein at least one channel formation region in the plurality of transistors comprises an oxide containing at least one of indium, an element M, and zinc, and wherein the element M is any one of aluminum, gallium, yttrium, and tin.
15. A semiconductor wafer comprising: a plurality of the semiconductor devices according to claim 2; and a region for dicing.
16. An electronic device comprising: the semiconductor device according to claim 2; and a housing.
</claims>
</document>
