<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H70/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, XUE
ZHANG, ZHENZHONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67131977
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, SYSTEM, AND APPARATUS FOR AUTOMATICALLY ADDING ICD CODE, AND MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides a method, system, and apparatus for automatically adding ICD code, and a medium. The method for automatically adding an ICD (International Classification of Diseases) code includes: obtaining medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the medical record, a respective probability of adding a respective disease code in ICD to the medical record; and obtaining, based on the respective probability, an indication of whether to automatically add the respective ICD code in ICD corresponding to the respective probability to the medical record.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically adding an ICD (International Classification of Diseases) code, comprising: obtaining medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the medical record, a respective probability of adding a respective disease code in ICD to the medical record; and obtaining, based on the respective probability, an indication of whether to automatically add the respective ICD code in ICD corresponding to the respective probability to the medical record.
2. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data comprises: obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through a word vector of the respective medical record element contained in the medical record data.
3. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD comprises: obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD through a word vector of the respective disease in ICD.
4. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record comprises: obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease; and obtaining, based on the contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease, a vector representation of medical record.
5. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 4, wherein a contribution of the vector representation d of the respective medical record element to the vector representation ik of a k-th disease is expressed as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?ak=soft max(d1Tik, d2Tik, d3Tik, . . . dnTik)description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where soft x is a vector, xj is a j-th element in the vector x, dnT denotes the transposition of dn, and d1, d2, d3 . . . dn respectively denote the vector representation of the respective medical record element.
6. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining, based on the respective probability, an indication of whether to automatically add the respective ICD code in ICD corresponding to the respective probability to the medical record comprises: when the probability is greater than a predetermined threshold, adding the disease code in ICD corresponding to the probability to the medical record; when the probability is less than a predetermined threshold, not adding the disease code in ICD corresponding to the probability to the medical record.
7. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the probability of adding the k-th disease code in ICD to the medical record based on the vector representation of the medical record is expressed as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?yk=′(βkT·dk+bk)description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where σ( )is a sigmoid function, βk and bk are linear parameters obtained neural network training, dk denotes the vector representation of the medical record.
8. The method for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 1, wherein the medical record element includes one or more elements related to medical record data among chief complaint, history of present illness, and history of past illness.
9. A system for automatically adding an ICD (International Classification of Diseases) code, comprising: a medical record data obtaining module for obtaining medical record data; a vector-representation-of-medical-record-element obtaining module for obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data; a vector-representation-of-disease obtaining module for obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD; a vector-representation-of-medical-record obtaining module for obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record; a probability obtaining module for obtaining, based on the vector representation of the m record, a respective probability of adding a respective disease code in ICD to the medical record; and an adding module for obtaining, based on the respective probability, an indication of whether to automatically add the respective ICD code in ICD corresponding to the respective probability to the medical record.
10. The system for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 9, wherein the vector-representation-of-medical-record-element obtaining module obtains a vector representation of a respective medical record element through a word vector of the respective medical record element contained in the medical record data.
11. The system for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 9, wherein the vector-representation-of-disease obtaining module obtains a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD through a word vector of the respective disease in ICD.
12. The system for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 9, wherein the. vector-representation-of-medical-record obtaining module obtains, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease; and obtains, based on the contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease, a vector representation of medical record.
13. The system for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 9, wherein when the probability is greater than a predetermined threshold, the adding module adds the disease code in ICD corresponding to the probability to the medical record; when the probability is less than a predetermined threshold, the adding module does not add the disease code in ICD corresponding to the probability to the medical record.
14. The system for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 9, wherein the medical record element includes one or more elements related to medical record data among chief complaint, history of present illness, and history of past illness.
15. An apparatus for automatically adding an IC (International Classification of Diseases) code, comprising: a processor; and a memory in which computer--readable instructions are stored, wherein a method for automatically adding an ICD code is performed when the computer-readable instructions are executed by the processor, said method comprising: obtaining medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data; obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record; obtaining, based on the vector representation of the medical record, a respective probability of adding a respective disease code in ICD to the medical record; and obtaining, based on the respective probability, an indication of whether to automatically add the respective ICD code in ICD corresponding to the respective probability to the medical record.
16. The apparatus for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 15, wherein the. obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through the medical record data comprises: obtaining a vector representation of a respective medical record element through a word vector of the respective medical record element contained in the medical record data.
17. The apparatus for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 15, wherein the obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD comprises: obtaining a vector representation of a respective disease in ICD through a word vector of the respective disease in ICD.
18. The apparatus for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 15, wherein the obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a vector representation of medical record comprises: obtaining, based on the vector representation of the respective medical record element and the vector representation of the respective disease in ICD, a contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease; and obtaining, based on the contribution of the vector representation of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of the respective disease, a vector representation of medical record.
19. The apparatus for automatically adding an ICD code according to claim 18, wherein a contribution of the vector representation d of the respective medical record element to the vector representation of ik a k-th disease is expressed as: ak=soft max(d1Tik, d2Tik, d3Tik, . . . dnTik) where soft x is a vector, x is a j-th element in the vector x, dnT denotes the transposition of dn, and d1, d2, d3 . . . dn respectively denote the vector representation of the respective medical record element.
20. A computer-readable storage medium for storing a computer-readable program, the program causing a computer to perform the method for automatically adding an ICD code as claimed in claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
