<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/00,G01N15/02,G06K9/62,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
Zakaria, Ryadh Abdullah
Bork, Stephan Michael
McBrady, Adam D.
Brown, Andy Walker
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70390787
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Flow device and associated method and system
</title>

<abstract>
A flow device, method, and system are provided for determining the fluid particle composition. An example flow device includes a fluid sensor configured to monitor at least one particle characteristic of fluid flowing through the fluid sensor. The example flow device also includes at least one processor configured to, upon determining the at least one particle characteristic satisfies a particle criteria, generate a control signal for an external device. The example flow device also includes a fluid composition sensor configured to be powered based on the control signal and further configured to capture data relating to the fluid particle composition. The example flow device is also configured to generate one or more particle profiles of at least one component of the fluid based on the data captured by the fluid composition sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a flow device, the method comprising: monitoring, via a fluid sensor, signal pulses received by the fluid sensor based upon a presence of one or more particles carried by fluid flowing through the fluid sensor; upon determining that the signal pulses satisfy one or more particle criteria, generating a control signal for an external device, wherein the one or more particle criteria defines at least one of: a threshold number of signal pulses indicative of the presence of one or more particles received by the fluid sensor or a threshold size of at least one signal pulse received by the fluid sensor; based on the control signal, causing a fluid composition sensor to be powered; capturing, via the fluid composition sensor, data relating to a fluid particle composition; and generating one or more particle profiles of at least one component of the fluid based on the data captured by the fluid composition sensor.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring of the fluid sensor is continuous.
3. (canceled)
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid sensor is an optical scanner device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid sensor is an optical scanner device and the fluid composition sensor is a lens free microscope device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid sensor defines at least a portion of a fluid flow path, and wherein the fluid sensor and the fluid composition sensor are positioned along the fluid flow path such that the fluid flows through the fluid sensor before reaching the fluid composition sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing the fluid composition sensor to be powered off after the one or more particle profiles have been generated.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more particle profiles comprises at least one of a holographic image reconstruction or particle size data.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining an initial particle profile based on the monitoring by the fluid sensor.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more particle profiles comprises at least one of particle images, particle size data, or particle type data of the at least one component of the fluid.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein each of the at least one component of the fluid comprises one or more of bacteria, viruses, pollen, spores, molds, biological particles, soot, inorganic particles, and organic particles.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more particle profiles of at least one component of the fluid based on the data captured by the fluid composition sensor comprises comparing one or more partial image frames with one or more reference image frames of one or more potential components of the fluid.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluid sensor and the fluid composition sensor are contained in a housing.
14. A flow device for detecting fluid particle composition comprising: a fluid sensor configured to: monitor at least one particle characteristic of fluid flowing through the fluid sensor; and a processor configured to, upon determining the at least one particle characteristic satisfies one or more particle criteria, generate a control signal for an external device, wherein the one or more particle criteria defines at least one of: a threshold number of signal pulses indicative of a presence of one or more particles received by the fluid sensor or a threshold size of at least one signal pulse received by the fluid sensor; based on the control signal, cause a fluid composition sensor to be powered; capture, via the fluid composition sensor, data relating to the fluid particle composition; and generate one or more particle profiles of at least one component of the fluid based on the data captured by the fluid composition sensor.
15. The flow device of claim 14, wherein the monitoring of the fluid sensor is continuous.
16. (canceled)
17. The flow device of claim 14, wherein the fluid sensor is an optical scanner device.
18. The flow device of claim 14, wherein the fluid sensor is an optical scanner device and the fluid composition sensor is a lens free microscope device.
19. The flow device of claim 14, wherein the fluid is configured to flow along a fluid flow path, and wherein the fluid sensor and the fluid composition sensor are positioned along the fluid flow path such that the fluid flows through the fluid sensor before reaching the fluid composition sensor.
20. The flow device of claim 14, wherein each of the at least one component of the fluid comprises one or more of bacteria, viruses, pollen, spores, molds, biological particles, soot, inorganic particles, and organic particles.
21. A system for determining fluid particle composition flowing through a path comprising: a fluid sensor configured to monitor at least one particle characteristic of a fluid flowing through the fluid sensor and along the path; a fluid composition sensor configured to capture data relating to at least one particle characteristic of the fluid flowing along the path, wherein the fluid composition sensor is located downstream of the fluid sensor along the path, wherein the fluid composition sensor remains unpowered until a particle criteria is satisfied by the fluid flowing through the fluid sensor, and at least one processor configured to generate one or more particle profiles of at least one component of the fluid based on the data captured by the fluid composition sensor.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the monitoring of the fluid sensor is continuous.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the fluid sensor is an optical scanner device and the fluid composition sensor is a lens free microscope device.
24. The system of claim 21 wherein the fluid composition sensor is further configured to be powered off after the one or more particle profiles have been generated.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein each of the at least one component of the fluid comprises one or more of bacteria, viruses, pollen, spores, molds, biological particles, soot, inorganic particles, and organic particles.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the fluid sensor and the fluid composition sensor are contained in a housing.
</claims>
</document>
