<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H40/20,G16H50/20,G16H50/70,G16H70/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Hank.AI, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOLDIE, TRAVIS
THOMAN, SCOTT
NEIL, JACK EDWARD
Hartzog, Samuel Edward
Razin, Sergey
Marlatt, Tracy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189520
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Methods for Predicting Identifiers Using Machine-Learned Techniques
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for training and deploying machine-learned models to predict medical codes are provided. In one example embodiment, a computing system can train machine-learned model(s) to predict medical codes based on training medical data. The machine-learned models can then be utilized to predict medical codes based on medical data. This can include a two stage model architecture. The two-stage architecture can include, for example, a unbiased machine-learned model trained to predict medical codes and a biased machine-learned model trained to revise the predicted medical codes according to a specific domain.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: providing, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices, a first set of input data to an unbiased machine-learned model, wherein the input data comprises one or more input features indicative of medical data; determining, by the computing system using the unbiased machine-learned model, one or more predicted identifiers based at least in part on the first set of input data, wherein the predicted identifiers comprise one or more medical codes associated with the medical data; providing, by the computing system, a second set of input data to a biased machine-learned model, the second set of input data comprising the one or more predicted identifiers and the medical data; and receiving, by the computing system as an output of the biased machine-learned model, one or more revised predicted identifiers, wherein the one or more revised predicted identifiers comprises one or more different medical codes associated with the medical data descriptions.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the unbiased machine-learned model is configured to associate the one or more medical codes with the medical data based at least in part on a semantic graph.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the biased machine-learned model is configured to determine the one or more revised predicted identifiers based at least in part on a domain.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the domain comprises at least one of an entity associated with the medical data or a consumer of the one or more revised predicted identifiers.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the entity associated with the medical data comprises at least one of a facility, a provider group, or a medical field.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the unbiased machine-learned model and the biased machine-learned model are trained based at least in part on reinforcement learning.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the computing system using the unbiased machine-learned model, the one or more predicted identifiers based at least in part on the first set of input data comprises: providing, by the computing system, the first set of input data to the unbiased machine-learned model; and receiving, by the computing system as an output of the unbiased machine-learned model, the one or more predicted identifiers.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second set of input data comprises an output of the unbiased machine-learned model.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the computing system, data indicative of the one or more revised predicted identifiers to another computing system.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data indicative of the revised predicted identifiers comprises the one or more different medical codes assigned to the medical data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the medical data is associated with one or more medical records.
12. A computing system comprising: a first machine-learned model configured to determine one or more predicted medical codes; a second machine-learned model configured to determine one or more revised predicted medical codes; one or more processors; and one or more memories including instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: providing input data to the first machine-learned model, wherein the input data comprises one or more input features associated with medical data; receiving, as an output of the first machine-learned model, data indicative of the one or more predicted medical codes associated with the medical data; providing the output of the first machine-learned model as an input to the second machine-learned model; and receiving, as an output of the second machine-learned model, a confirmation of the one or more predicted medical codes or the one or more revised predicted medical codes.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the first machine-learned model is configured to associate the one or more predicted medical codes with the medical data based at least in part on a semantic graph.
14. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the second machine-learned model is configured to determine the one or more revised predicted identifiers based at least in part on a domain.
15. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the domain comprises at least one of an entity associated with the medical data or a consumer of the one or more revised predicted identifiers.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the first machine-learned model and the second machine-learned model are trained based at least in part on reinforcement learning.
17. A computer-implemented method for model training comprising: receiving, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices, training data, wherein the training data comprises one or more training features and one or more training identifiers, the one or more training features being associated with training medical data and the one or more training identifiers comprising one or more training medical codes; training, by the computing system, a machine-learned model based at least in part on the one or more training features and the one or more training identifiers; providing, by the computing system, input data to the machine-learned model, the input data comprising medical data; receiving, by the computing system as an output of the machine-learned model, data indicative of one or more predicted identifiers, the one or more predicted identifiers comprising one or more predicted medical codes based at least in part on the medical data; providing, by the computing system, the one or more predicted identifiers to a user device; receiving, by the computing system via the user device, feedback data associated with the one or more predicted identifiers, wherein the feedback data comprises an indication that the one or more predicted medical codes are correct or incorrect; and re-training, by the computing system, the machine-learned model based at least in part on the feedback data.
18. The computing system of claim 17, wherein training, by the computing system, the machine-learned model based at least in part on the one or more training features and the one or more training identifiers comprises: providing, by the computing system, the one or more training features and the one or more training identifiers to the machine-learned model.
19. The computing system of claim 17, wherein the machine-learned model utilizes a semantic graph.
20. The computing system of claim 17, wherein re-training, by the computing system, the machine-learned model based at least in part on the feedback data comprises: extracting, by the computing system, at least one of one or more feedback features or one or more feedback identifiers from the feedback data; and providing, by the computing system, the one or more feedback features and the one or more feedback identifiers to the machine-learned model.
</claims>
</document>
