<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KURIAN, MANU
DIVYA, U.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550485
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for Selective Data Capture and Translation
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for selective data capture and translation are provided. In some examples, a system, may receive data from one or more systems, networks, applications, devices, or the like. The data may include data associated with one or more issues occurring at the system, network, application, device, or the like. In some examples, a plurality of data containers may be generated. In some arrangements, each data container may be associated with a different issue, type of issue, system, application, or the like. The data containers may be generated in response to receiving data associated with an issue or may be pre-generated. In some arrangements, the received data may be evaluated (e.g., using machine learning) to determine whether it should be added to one or more data containers of the plurality of data containers. If so, the data may be added and, if not the data may be preserved and/or further evaluated to determine whether it should be added to a different data container.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing platform, comprising: at least one processor; a communication interface communicatively coupled to the at least one processor; and memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing platform to: generate a plurality of data containers; receive a data stream; evaluate, using machine learning, the data stream to predict whether data from the data stream should be added to a first data container of the generated plurality of data containers; responsive to determining the data from the data stream should be added to the first data container, add the data to the first data container; and responsive to determining the data from the data stream should not be added to the first data container, preserve the data from the data stream and further evaluate the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to a second data container of the plurality of data containers.
2. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein further evaluating the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to the second data container of the plurality of data containers is performed using machine learning.
3. The computing platform of claim 1, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: generate one or more translation layers.
4. The computing platform of claim 3, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: execute the generated one or more translation layers.
5. The computing platform of claim 3, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer to enable communication between two or more data containers of the plurality of data containers.
6. The computing platform of claim 3, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer translate machine readable data to a natural language readable by an analyst.
7. The computing platform of claim 1, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: format the data from the data stream prior to adding it to the first data container.
8. A method, comprising: at a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface: generating, by the at least one processor, a plurality of data containers; receiving, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, a data stream; evaluating, by the at least one processor and using machine learning, the data stream to predict whether data from the data stream should be added to a first data container of the generated plurality of data containers; responsive to determining the data from the data stream should be added to the first data container, adding, by the at least one processor, the data to the first data container; and responsive to determining the data from the data stream should not be added to the first data container, preserving, by the at least one processor, the data from the data stream and further evaluating, by the at least one processor, the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to a second data container of the plurality of data containers.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein further evaluating the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to the second data container of the plurality of data containers is performed using machine learning.
10. The method of claim 8, further including: generating, by the at least one processor, one or more translation layers.
11. The method of claim 10, further including: executing, by the at least one processor, the generated one or more translation layers.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer to enable communication between two or more data containers of the plurality of data containers.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer translate machine readable data to a natural language readable by an analyst.
14. The method of claim 8, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: format the data from the data stream prior to adding it to the first data container.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface, cause the computing platform to: generate a plurality of data containers; receive a data stream; evaluate, using machine learning, the data stream to predict whether data from the data stream should be added to a first data container of the generated plurality of data containers; responsive to determining the data from the data stream should be added to the first data container, add the data to the first data container; and responsive to determining the data from the data stream should not be added to the first data container, preserve the data from the data stream and further evaluate the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to a second data container of the plurality of data containers.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein further evaluating the data from the data stream to determine whether it should be added to the second data container of the plurality of data containers is performed using machine learning.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: generate one or more translation layers.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: execute the generated one or more translation layers.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer to enable communication between two or more data containers of the plurality of data containers.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the generated one or more translation layers including a translation layer translate machine readable data to a natural language readable by an analyst.
21. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: format the data from the data stream prior to adding it to the first data container.
</claims>
</document>
