<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G11B27/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
STAHLFELD, PHILLIP ELLSWORTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62837994
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Motion Based Account Recognition
</title>

<abstract>
A user establishes an account with an account management system and downloads a service application on a user computing device associated with the user. The user enters a service provider location and signs into a service application. A service camera device captures a video feed of one or more users within a visual field of the service camera device and a service computing device compares movement data received from user computing devices at the service provider location against movement of detected objects in the video feed to identify one or more users in the video feed. After identifying the one or more users within the video feed of the service camera device, in response to a particular user initiating a service request at the service computing device, the service computing device identifies the particular user at the service computing device as being within a service area of the video feed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method to identify users, comprising, by one or more processors: obtaining visual data associated with one or more images depicting an object during a time period; obtaining movement data associated with a user computing device during the time period; providing the visual data and the movement data to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the visual data and the movement data; comparing, using the one or more machine-learned classification models, the visual data and the movement data to determine a correlation during the time period between the object depicted in the one or more images of the visual data and the user computing device associated with the movement data; and based on a determined correlation between the visual data and the movement data, identifying the object depicted in the one or more images as corresponding to a user of the user computing device.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising, by the one or more processors: detecting the object from a video feed comprising the visual data associated with the one or more images; and determining a change in position of the object in the video feed during the time period; wherein the visual data provided to the one or more machine-learned classification models includes data indicative of the change in position of the object in the video feed.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein comparing the visual data and the movement data to determine the correlation comprises: determining the correlation during the time period based on the change in the position of the object in the video feed and the movement data associated with the user computing device.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein determining the change in the position of the object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the object.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein the movement data comprises a gyroscopic signature, wherein determining the change in the position of the object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature to the movement signature.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein: the user computing device is a particular user computing device: obtaining movement data comprises receiving, from each of a plurality of user computing devices, respective movement data indicating movement of such user computer device during the time period; providing the movement data to the one or more classification machine-learned models comprises providing the respective movement data for each user computing device to the one or more machine-learned classification models; and comparing the visual data and the movement data comprises determining the correlation during the time period between the object depicted in the one or more images of the visual data and the particular user computing device based on the respective movement data indicating movement of the particular user computing device.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the movement data comprises at least one of a gyroscopic signature or an accelerometer signature.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising, by the one or more processors: receiving a request to initiate a service request; and transmitting a user computing device identifier corresponding to the user computing device and a request to process the service request to an account management computing system.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 28, further comprising, by the one or more processors: receiving, from the account management computing system, data corresponding to one or more accounts of the particular user; displaying at least a portion of the data corresponding to the one or more accounts of the particular user; receiving an input of a selection of a particular account for use in the service request; and transmitting, to the account management computing system, the selection of the particular account, wherein the account management computing system processes the service request using the particular account.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 28, further comprising, by the one or more processors: determining a change in position of the object from a first position to a second position during the time period determining that the second position of the object is within a defined area of a video feed associated with a service request area, wherein the request to process the service request is transmitted in response to determining that the second position of the object is within the service request area associated with the video feed.
31. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or non-transitory computer readable media that collectively store instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining visual data associated with one or more images depicting an object during a time period; obtaining movement data associated with a user computing device during the time period; providing the visual data and the movement data to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the visual data and the movement data; comparing, using the one or more machine-learned classification models, the visual data and the movement data to determine a correlation during the time period between the object depicted in the one or more images of the visual data and the user computing device associated with the movement data; and based on a determined correlation between the visual data and the movement data, identifying the object depicted in the one or more images as corresponding to a user of the user computing device.
32. The computing system of claim 31, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting the object from a video feed comprising the visual data associated with the one or more images; and determining a change in position of the object in the video feed during the time period; wherein the visual data provided to the one or more machine-learned classification models includes data indicative of the change in position of the object in the video feed.
33. The computing system of claim 32, wherein comparing the visual data and the movement data to determine the correlation comprises: determining the correlation during the time period based on the change in the position of the object in the video feed and the movement data associated with the user computing device.
34. The computing system of claim 32, wherein determining the change in the position of the object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the object.
35. The computing system of claim 32, wherein the movement data comprises a gyroscopic signature, wherein determining the change in the position of the object in the video feed comprises determining a movement signature of the object, and wherein comparing the change in the position of the object in the video feed with the change in the movement data received from the user computing device to determine the correlation comprises comparing the gyroscopic signature to the movement signature.
36. The computing system of claim 31, wherein: the user computing device is a particular user computing device: obtaining movement data comprises receiving, from each of a plurality of user computing devices, respective movement data indicating movement of such user computer device during the time period; providing the movement data to the one or more classification machine-learned models comprises providing the respective movement data for each user computing device to the one or more machine-learned classification models; and comparing the visual data and the movement data comprises determining the correlation during the time period between the object depicted in the one or more images of the visual data and the particular user computing device based on the respective movement data indicating movement of the particular user computing device.
37. One or more non-transitory computer readable media that collectively store instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining visual data associated with one or more images depicting an object during a time period; obtaining movement data associated with a user computing device during the time period; providing the visual data and the movement data to one or more machine-learned classification models configured to identify similarities between the visual data and the movement data; comparing, using the one or more machine-learned classification models, the visual data and the movement data to determine a correlation during the time period between the object depicted in the one or more images of the visual data and the user computing device associated with the movement data; and based on a determined correlation between the visual data and the movement data, identifying the object depicted in the one or more images as corresponding to a user of the user computing device.
38. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 37, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a request to initiate a service request; and transmitting a user computing device identifier corresponding to the user computing device and a request to process the service request to an account management computing system.
39. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 38, further comprising, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the account management computing system, data corresponding to one or more accounts of the particular user; displaying at least a portion of the data corresponding to the one or more accounts of the particular user; receiving an input of a selection of a particular account for use in the service request; and transmitting, to the account management computing system, the selection of the particular account, wherein the account management computing system processes the service request using the particular account.
40. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 38, further comprising, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a change in position of the object from a first position to a second position during the time period determining that the second position of the object is within a defined area of a video feed associated with a service request area, wherein the request to process the service request is transmitted in response to determining that the second position of the object is within the service request area associated with the video feed.
</claims>
</document>
