<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,G06N3/08,H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC LABORATORIES EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COSTA PEREZ, XAVIER
GARCIA-SAAVEDRA, ANDRES
Ayala Romero, Jose
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72424832
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL RADIO ACCESS NETWORK CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
A radio access network includes a processing system and one or more radio access points configured to broadcast over a radio band including one or more radio channels. Contextual data is acquired which is representative of at least one of: (i) a quality of the radio band and (ii) a quantity of data demanded by user equipment in communication with the one or more radio access points over the radio band. A compute policy and a radio policy are generated based on the acquired contextual data. Data transmissions for processing are assigned to computing resources of the processing system based on the compute policy. Data are scheduled for transmission over the radio band based on the radio policy. A modulation and coding scheme for the scheduled data transmissions is selected based on the radio policy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of assigning resources of a radio access network comprising a processing system and one or more radio access points configured to broadcast over a radio band comprising one or more radio channels, the method comprising: acquiring contextual data representative of at least one of: (i) a quality of the radio band and (ii) a quantity of data demanded by user equipment in communication with the one or more radio access points over the radio band; generating a compute policy and a radio policy based on the acquired contextual data; assigning data transmissions for processing to computing resources of the processing system based on the compute policy; scheduling data for transmission over the radio band based on the radio policy; and selecting a modulation and coding scheme for the scheduled data transmissions based on the radio policy.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data transmissions for processing comprises samples of modulated radio waves received by the one or more radio access points over the radio band from the user equipment and the method comprises: measuring data transmission delay, decoding errors, and processing system load; and generating the radio policy and the compute policy based on the measurements.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data encodes both the quality of the radio band and the quantity of data demanded by the user equipment and acquiring the contextual data comprises: measuring a signal-to-noise ratio of the radio band and a rate of incoming data; and encoding the measured signal-to-noise ratio and the rate of incoming data into the contextual data, the contextual data comprising a matrix including one or more vectors.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the compute policy and the radio policy comprises: feeding the contextual data into a compute neural network hosted on the processing system to create the compute policy and feeding the contextual data into a radio neural network hosted on the processing system to compute the radio policy, each of the policies comprising a respective matrix including one or more vectors.
5. The method of claim 4, comprising: measuring a delay associated with buffering outgoing data awaiting modulation; measuring a computing load on the processing system; computing a reward based on the measured delay and the measured load; and training the compute neural network and training the radio neural network based on the computed reward.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the reward is a scalar, the compute neural network comprises a plurality of compute nodes each including a weighted receptive field and a bias, the radio neural network comprises a plurality of radio nodes each including a weighted receptive field and a bias, and the method comprises: training the compute neural network by reweighting and rebiasing the compute nodes based on multiple instances of the contextual data captured across time and multiple instances of the reward captured across time, wherein each of the contextual data instances is paired with a respective one of the reward instances; and training the radio neural network by reweighting and rebiasing the radio nodes based on the multiple instances of the contextual data captured across time and the multiple instances of the reward captured across time.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the contextual data comprises a matrix including a plurality of values and each of the values within the matrix is a scalar encoding both the quality of the radio band and the quantity of data demanded.
8. A processing system configured to assign resources of a radio access network comprising one or more radio access points configured to broadcast over a radio band comprising one or more radio channels, the processing system comprising one or more processors configured to: acquire contextual data representative of at least one of: (i) a quality of the radio band and (ii) a quantity of data demanded by user equipment in communication with the radio access point over the radio band; generate a compute policy and a radio policy based on the acquired contextual data; assign data transmissions for processing to computing resources of the processing system based on the compute policy; schedule data for transmission over the radio band based on the radio policy; and select a modulation and coding scheme for the scheduled data transmissions based on the radio policy.
9. The processing system of claim 8, wherein the data transmissions for processing comprise samples of modulated radio waves received by the one or more radio access points over the radio band from the user equipment and the one or more processors are configured to: measure data transmission delay, decoding errors, and processing system load; and generate the radio policy and the compute policy based on the measurements.
10. The processing system of claim 8, wherein the contextual data encodes both the quality of the radio band and the quantity of data demanded by the user equipment and the one or more processors are configured to acquire the contextual data by: measuring a signal-to-noise ratio of the radio band and a rate of incoming data; and encoding the measured signal-to-noise ratio and the rate of incoming data into the contextual data, the contextual data comprising a matrix including one or more vectors.
11. The processing system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are configured to generate the compute policy and the radio policy by: feeding the contextual data into a compute neural network hosted on the processing system to create the compute policy and feeding the contextual data into a radio neural network hosted on the processing system to compute the radio policy, each of the policies comprising a respective matrix including one or more vectors.
12. The processing system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: measure a delay associated with buffering outgoing data awaiting modulation; measure a computing load on the processing system; compute a reward based on the measured delay and the measured load; and train the compute neural network and training the radio neural network based on the computed reward.
13. The processing system of claim 12, wherein the reward is a scalar, the compute neural network comprises a plurality of compute nodes each including a weighted receptive field and a bias, the radio neural network comprises a plurality of radio nodes each including a weighted receptive field and a bias, and the one or more processors are configured to: train the compute neural network by reweighting and rebiasing the compute nodes based on multiple instances of the contextual data captured across time and multiple instances of the reward captured across time, wherein each of the contextual data instances is paired with a respective one of the reward instances; and train the radio neural network by reweighting and rebiasing the radio nodes based on the multiple instances of the contextual data captured across time and the multiple instances of the reward captured across time.
14. The processing system of claim 8, wherein the contextual data comprises a matrix including a plurality of values and each of the values within the matrix is a scalar encoding both the quality of the radio band and the quantity of data demanded.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising code for configuring one or more processors to: acquire contextual data representative of at least one of: (i) a quality of the radio band and (ii) a quantity of data demanded by user equipment in communication with one or more radio access points over the radio band; generate a compute policy and a radio policy based on the acquired contextual data; assign data transmissions for processing to computing resources of the processing system based on the compute policy; schedule data for transmission over the radio band based on the radio policy; and select a modulation and coding scheme for the scheduled data transmissions based on the radio policy.
</claims>
</document>
