<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06Q20/04,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, JOSHUA
BHATT, GAURANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70552211
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOCUMENT TRACKING AND CORRELATION
</title>

<abstract>
A device receives receipt data of a receipt of a transaction for a product, and processes, using a term matching technique, the receipt data to identify transaction information including a transaction date and product information. The device determines that the transaction caused a user to be covered by or eligible for a warranty for the product, generates a tag identifying the product, and associates, using a data structure, the product information, data identifying the warranty, and the tag with a record of the transaction that is accessible via a program that allows the user to search for the receipt or terms of the warranty. The device performs actions associated with assisting the user in managing the warranty, such as by reminding the user of an expiration date of the warranty and/or by assisting the user in submitting a claim based on the warranty.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, receipt data of a receipt of a transaction for one or more products, the receipt data to include a transaction date; determining, by the device, that a threshold likelihood that the transaction caused a user to be covered by or eligible for a warranty for a product of the one or more products is satisfied; determining, by the device, the warranty for the product based on determining that there the threshold likelihood is satisfied; identifying, by the device and by a semantic engine parser, one or more terms of the warranty for the product to analyze a website associated with the transaction that describes the one or more terms of the warranty; generating, by the device, a set of tags identifying the one or more products, associating, by the device, the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with a record of the transaction; and sending, by the device, a notification to remind the user of an expiration date of the warranty.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the receipt data comprises: using a secure access delegation service to access a set of e-mails associated with an e-mail account of the user; analyzing the set of e-mails to identify the receipt of the transaction; and obtaining the receipt of the transaction.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more terms of the warranty are identified using: a character recognition technique, or a term matching technique.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying the transaction date by comparing the receipt data to a template that includes values commonly found in dates.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: predicting, using a data model that has been trained on historical warranty data and that uses one or more machine learning techniques, a set of search terms that the user is likely to use when searching for the one or more terms of the warranty, and using the set of search terms to generate the set of tags.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein associating the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with the record of the transaction comprises: using a data structure to establish an association between the one or more terms of the warranty, the set of tags, the receipt, and a transaction identifier used to create the record of the transaction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the set of tags comprises: generating the set of tags based on mapping one or more synonyms to a name of the product.
8. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, operatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: receive receipt data of a receipt of a transaction for one or more products, the receipt data to include a transaction date; determine that a threshold likelihood that the transaction caused a user to be covered by or eligible for a warranty for a product of the one or more products is satisfied; determine the warranty for the product based on determining that there the threshold likelihood is satisfied; identifying, by a semantic engine parser, one or more terms of the warranty for the product to analyze a website associated with the transaction that describes the one or more terms of the warranty; generate a set of tags identifying the one or more products, associate the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with a record of the transaction; and send a notification an expiration date of the warranty.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when receiving the receipt data, are to: monitor a transaction history associated with an account of the user; identify a change to the transaction history; and use a secure access delegation service to access the receipt of the transaction.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when sending the notification the expiration date of the warranty, are to: send the notification if a current date is within a threshold time period of the expiration date.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further to: predict, using a data model that has been trained on historical warranty data and that uses one or more machine learning techniques, a set of search terms that the user is likely to use when searching for the one or more terms of the warranty, and use the set of search terms to generate the set of tags.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when associating the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with the record of the transaction, are to: use a data structure to establish an association between the one or more terms of the warranty, the set of tags, the receipt, and a transaction identifier used to create the record of the transaction.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when generating the set of tags, cause the one or more processors to: generate the set of tags based on mapping one or more synonyms to a name of the product.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the notification includes one or more of: the expiration date of the warranty, information needed to renew the warranty, or information needed to make a claim based on a term of the warranty not being fulfilled.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions, the one or more instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive receipt data of a receipt of a transaction for one or more products, the receipt data to include a transaction date; determine that a threshold likelihood that the transaction caused a user to be covered by or eligible for a warranty for a product of the one or more products is satisfied; determine the warranty for the product based on determining that there the threshold likelihood is satisfied; identifying, by a semantic engine parser, one or more terms of the warranty for the product to analyze a website associated with the transaction that describes the one or more terms of the warranty; generate a set of tags identifying the one or more products, associate the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with a record of the transaction; and send a notification an expiration date of the warranty.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to generate the set of tags, cause the one or more processors to: generate the set of tags based on mapping one or more synonyms to a name of the product.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to receive the receipt data, cause the one or more processors to: monitor a transaction history associated with an account of the user; identify a change to the transaction history; and use a secure access delegation service to access the receipt of the transaction.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to send the notification the expiration date of the warranty, cause the one or more processors to: send the notification if a current date is within a threshold time period of the expiration date.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: predict, using a data model that has been trained on historical warranty data and that uses one or more machine learning techniques, a set of search terms that the user is likely to use when searching for the one or more terms of the warranty, and use the set of search terms to generate the set of tags.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to associate the one or more terms of the warranty and the set of tags with the record of the transaction, cause the one or more processors to: use a data structure to establish an association between the one or more terms of the warranty, the set of tags, the receipt, and a transaction identifier used to create the record of the transaction.
</claims>
</document>
