<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/44,G06F21/76
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAYRINGER, MICHAEL H. S.
GROSS, KENNY C.
LEWIS, ANDREW J.
WANG, GUANG C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101944
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING UNWANTED COMPONENTS IN A CRITICAL ASSET BASED ON EMI FINGERPRINTS GENERATED WITH A SINUSOIDAL LOAD
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system that detects unwanted electronic components in a target asset. During operation, the system generates a sinusoidal load for the target asset. Next, the system obtains target electromagnetic interference (EMI) signals by monitoring EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load. The system then generates a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals. Finally, the system compares the target EMI fingerprint against a reference EMI fingerprint for the target asset to determine whether the target asset contains unwanted electronic components.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting unwanted electronic components in a target asset, comprising: generating a sinusoidal load for the target asset; obtaining target electromagnetic interference (EMI) signals by monitoring EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; generating a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals; and comparing the target EMI fingerprint against a reference EMI fingerprint for the target asset to determine whether the target asset contains unwanted electronic components.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises verifying operability for a detection system that performs the method by: obtaining target EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; computing a cross power spectral density (CPSD) between the sinusoidal load and the target EMI signals; extracting spikes from an output of the CPSD; when a frequency of an extracted spike matches a frequency of a source spike from the sinusoidal load, computing a ratio between the height of the extracted spike and the height of the source spike from the sinusoidal load; when the ratio meets or exceeds an operability threshold, verifying operability for the detection system; and when the ratio does not meet the operability threshold, generating a warning to check an antenna and associated circuitry used to obtain the target EMI signals.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the sinusoidal load comprises using a pulse-width-modulation technique that sinusoidally modulates a duty cycle of a load, which cycles between an on-state and an off-state, to generate the sinusoidal load.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals involves: performing a target Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitioning an output of the target FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructing a target amplitude time-series signal for each of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins; selecting a subset of frequency bins that are associated with the highest average correlation coefficients; and generating the target EMI fingerprint by combining target amplitude time-series signals for each of the selected subset of frequency bins.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein selecting the subset of frequency bins involves: computing cross-correlations between pairs of amplitude time-series signals associated with pairs of the set of frequency bins; computing an average correlation coefficient for each of the frequency bins; and selecting a subset of frequency bins that are associated with the highest average correlation coefficients.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein prior to obtaining the target EMI signals, the method further comprises generating the reference EMI fingerprint by: obtaining reference EMI signals, which are generated by a reference asset of the same type as the target asset while the reference asset is executing the sinusoidal load, wherein the reference asset is certified not to contain unwanted electronic components; and generating the reference EMI fingerprint from the reference EMI signals.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method further comprises training a multivariate state estimation technique (MSET) model using the reference amplitude time-series signals for the reference EMI fingerprint.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein comparing the target EMI fingerprint against the reference EMI fingerprint involves: feeding the target amplitude time-series signals into the trained MSET model to produce estimated values for the target amplitude time-series signals; performing pairwise-differencing operations between actual values and the estimated values for the amplitude time-series signals to produce residuals; performing a sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) on the residuals to produce SPRT alarms; and determining from the SPRT alarms whether the target asset contains any unwanted electronic components.
9. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for detecting unwanted electronic components in a target asset, the method comprising: generating a sinusoidal load for the target asset; obtaining target EMI signals by monitoring EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; generating a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals; and comparing the target EMI fingerprint against a reference EMI fingerprint for the target asset to determine whether the target asset contains unwanted electronic components.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises verifying operability for a detection system that performs the method by: obtaining target EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; computing a CPSD between the sinusoidal load and the target EMI signals; extracting spikes from an output of the CPSD; when a frequency of an extracted spike matches a frequency of a source spike from the sinusoidal load, computing a ratio between the height of the extracted spike and the height of the source spike from the sinusoidal load; when the ratio exceeds an operability threshold, verifying operability for the detection system; and when the ratio does not meet the operability threshold, generating a warning to check an antenna and associated circuitry used to obtain the target EMI signals.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein generating the sinusoidal load comprises using a pulse-width-modulation technique that sinusoidally modulates a duty cycle of a load, which cycles between an on-state and an off-state, to generate the sinusoidal load.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein generating the target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals involves: performing a target FFT operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitioning an output of the target FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructing a target amplitude time-series signal for each of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins; selecting a subset of frequency bins that are associated with the highest average correlation coefficients; and generating the target EMI fingerprint by combining target amplitude time-series signals for each of the selected subset of frequency bins.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein prior to obtaining the target EMI signals, the method further comprises generating the reference EMI fingerprint by: obtaining reference EMI signals, which are generated by a reference asset of the same type as the target asset while the reference asset is executing the sinusoidal load, wherein the reference asset is certified not to contain unwanted electronic components; and generating the reference EMI fingerprint from the reference EMI signals.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises training an MSET model using the reference amplitude time-series signals for the reference EMI fingerprint.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein comparing the target EMI fingerprint against the reference EMI fingerprint involves: feeding the target amplitude time-series signals into the trained MSET model to produce estimated values for the target amplitude time-series signals; performing pairwise-differencing operations between actual values and the estimated values for the amplitude time-series signals to produce residuals; performing a SPRT on the residuals to produce SPRT alarms; and determining from the SPRT alarms whether the target asset contains any unwanted electronic components.
16. A system that detects unwanted electronic components in a target asset, comprising: at least one processor and at least one associated memory; and a detection mechanism that executes on the at least one processor, wherein the detection mechanism: generates a sinusoidal load for the target asset; obtains target EMI signals by monitoring EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; generates a target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals; and compares the target EMI fingerprint against a reference EMI fingerprint for the target asset to determine whether the target asset contains unwanted electronic components.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising an operability verification mechanism, which verifies operability of the detection mechanism, wherein during operation, the operability verification mechanism: obtains target EMI signals generated by the target asset while the target asset is executing the sinusoidal load; computes a CPSD between the sinusoidal load and the target EMI signals; extracts spikes from an output of the CPSD; when a frequency of an extracted spike matches a frequency of a source spike from the sinusoidal load, computes a ratio between the height of the extracted spike and the height of the source spike from the sinusoidal load; when the ratio meets or exceeds an operability threshold, verifies operability for the detection system; and when the ratio does not meet the operability threshold, generates a warning to check an antenna and associated circuitry used to obtain the target EMI signals.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein while generating the sinusoidal load, the detection mechanism uses a pulse-width-modulation technique that sinusoidally modulates a duty cycle of a load, which cycles between an on-state and an off-state, to generate the sinusoidal load.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein while generating the target EMI fingerprint from the target EMI signals, the detection mechanism: performs a target FFT operation on the target EMI signals to transform the target EMI signals from a time-domain representation to a frequency-domain representation; partitions an output of the target FFT operation into a set of frequency bins; constructs a target amplitude time-series signal for each of the frequency bins in the set of frequency bins; selects a subset of frequency bins that are associated with the highest average correlation coefficients; and generates the target EMI fingerprint by combining target amplitude time-series signals for each of the selected subset of frequency bins.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein prior to obtaining the target EMI signals, the detection mechanism generates the reference EMI fingerprint, wherein while generating the reference EMI fingerprint, the detection mechanism: obtains reference EMI signals, which are generated by a reference asset of the same type as the target asset while the reference asset is executing the sinusoidal load, wherein the reference asset is certified not to contain unwanted electronic components; and generates the reference EMI fingerprint from the reference EMI signals.
</claims>
</document>
