<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/45,G06F3/0482,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLVO CAR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Rönnäng, Magnus
Davidsson, Staffan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC PLAYLIST PRIORITY IN A VEHICLE BASED UPON USER PREFERENCES AND CONTEXT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer program products that facilitate dynamic playlist priority in a vehicle based upon user preferences and context. According to an embodiment, a system comprises a processor that executes computer executable components stored in at least one memory, a compilation component that receives content in a vehicle, an assessment component that respectively classifies subsets of the content, a ranking component that ranks relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of a user in the vehicle, a content playback component that plays the subsets of classified content based upon relevancy ranking, a prioritization component that dynamically prioritizes a first subset of the content based upon the context of the user or context of a sender of the first subset of content, wherein the first subset of content comprises extrinsic data, and an interrupt component that interrupts playback of the subsets of classified content based upon the dynamic prioritization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor that executes computer executable components stored in at least one memory; a compilation component that receives content in a vehicle; an assessment component that respectively classifies subsets of the content; a ranking component that ranks relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of a user in the vehicle; a content playback component that plays the subsets of classified content based upon relevancy ranking; a prioritization component that dynamically prioritizes a first subset of the content based upon the context of the user or context of a sender of the first subset of content, wherein the first subset of content comprises extrinsic data; and an interrupt component interrupts playback of the subsets of classified content based on the dynamic prioritization.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a multi-modal component that transfers the playback of the subsets of classified content from a first device to a second device.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the ranking component ranks relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of two or more individuals in the vehicle.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the content playback component includes a multiplexing component that generates and respectively plays personalized streams of ranked content to a first user and a second user on respective playback devices.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the ranking component utilizes the extrinsic data to rank relevancy of the classified subsets of content.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a control component that enables a user to selectively modify preferences with respect to a specific playlist.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising an artificial intelligence or machine learning component that learns behavior of the user with respect to playback of the subsets of classified content, and updates relevancy ranking based upon the learned user behavior.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a visualization component that displays, summarizes and organizes a playlist.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the visualization component comprises an augmented reality component or virtual reality component.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the content playback component that plays the subsets of classified content based upon a combined relevancy ranking of the first and second user.
11. A computer-implemented method, comprising employing a processor to execute computer executable components stored in at least one memory to perform the following acts: receiving content in a vehicle; classifying subsets of the content; ranking relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of a user in the vehicle; playing the subsets of classified content based upon the relevancy ranking; dynamically prioritizing a first subset of the content based upon the context of the user or context of a sender of the first subset of content, wherein the first subset of content comprises extrinsic data; and interrupting playback of the subsets of classified content based on the dynamic prioritization.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising transferring the playback of the subsets of classified content from a first device to a second device.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising ranking relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of two or more individuals in the vehicle.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising generating and respectively playing personalized streams of ranked content to a first user and a second user on respective playback devices.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising utilizing extrinsic criteria to rank relevancy of the classified subsets of content.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving from a user instructions to selectively modify preferences with respect to a specific playlist.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising using an artificial intelligence or machine learning component to learn behavior of the user with respect to playback of the subsets of classified content, and updating relevancy ranking based upon the learned user behavior.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising displaying, summarizing and organizing a playlist.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising presenting the classified subsets of content in an augmented reality or virtual reality environment.
20. The method of claim 14, further comprising playing the subsets of classified content based upon a combined relevancy ranking of the first and second user.
21. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by processor to cause the processor to: receiving content in a vehicle; classifying subsets of the content; ranking relevancy of the classified subsets of content based upon preferences and context of a user in the vehicle; playing the subsets of classified content based upon the relevancy ranking; dynamically prioritizing a first subset of the content based upon the context of the user or context of a sender of the first subset of content, wherein the first subset of content comprises extrinsic data; and interrupting playback of the subsets of classified content based on the dynamic prioritization.
</claims>
</document>
