<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06F3/14,G06T1/20,G09G5/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
POHL, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FIXED FOVEATED COMPRESSION FOR STREAMING TO HEAD MOUNTED DISPLAYS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems and apparatuses may include technology that compresses a central region of an image to a central level of detail and compresses one or more peripheral regions of the image to one or more peripheral levels of detail that are less than the central level of detail, wherein the central region and the peripheral region(s) are fixed. Additionally, the technology may send the compressed central region and the compressed peripheral region(s) to a remote display. In one example, the central region and the peripheral region(s) are independent of eye movement with respect to the remote display.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computing system comprising: a network controller; and a graphics processor coupled to the network controller, the graphics processor including logic to: compress a central region of an image to a central level of detail, compress one or more peripheral regions of the image to one or more peripheral levels of detail that are less than the central level of detail, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are fixed, and send, via the network controller, the compressed central region and the compressed one or more peripheral regions to a remote display.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are to be independent of eye movement with respect to the remote display.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions correspond to one or more lens characteristics associated with the remote display.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more peripheral regions include a first peripheral region and a second peripheral region, the first peripheral region to be compressed at a first peripheral level of detail that is less than the central level of detail, and the second peripheral region to be compressed at a second peripheral level of detail that is less than the first peripheral level of detail.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the logic is to determine the central level of detail and the one or more peripheral levels of detail on one or more of a per pixel basis or a per tile basis.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the logic is to downsize the one or more peripheral regions, and wherein the one or more peripheral regions are compressed at a fixed compression ratio.
7. A semiconductor apparatus comprising: one or more substrates; and logic coupled to the one or more substrates, wherein the logic is implemented at least partly in one or more of configurable logic or fixed-functionality hardware logic, the logic coupled to the one or more substrates to: compress a central region of an image to a central level of detail; compress one or more peripheral regions of the image to one or more peripheral levels of detail that are less than the central level of detail, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are fixed; and send the compressed central region and the compressed one or more peripheral regions to a remote display.
8. The semiconductor apparatus of claim 7, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are to be independent of eye movement with respect to the remote display.
9. The semiconductor apparatus of claim 7, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions correspond to one or more lens characteristics associated with the remote display.
10. The semiconductor apparatus of claim 7, wherein the one or more peripheral regions include a first peripheral region and a second peripheral region, the first peripheral region to be compressed at a first peripheral level of detail that is less than the central level of detail, and the second peripheral region to be compressed at a second peripheral level of detail that is less than the first peripheral level of detail.
11. The semiconductor apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic coupled to the one or more substrates is to determine the central level of detail and the one or more peripheral levels of detail on one or more of a per pixel basis or a per tile basis.
12. The semiconductor apparatus of claim 7, wherein the logic coupled to the one or more substrates is to downsize the one or more peripheral regions, and wherein the one or more peripheral regions are compressed at a fixed compression ratio.
13. At least one computer readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions, which when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to: compress a central region of an image to a central level of detail; compress one or more peripheral regions of the image to one or more peripheral levels of detail that are less than the central level of detail, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are fixed; and send the compressed central region and the compressed one or more peripheral regions to a remote display.
14. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are to be independent of eye movement with respect to the remote display.
15. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions correspond to one or more lens characteristics associated with the remote display.
16. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the one or more peripheral regions include a first peripheral region and a second peripheral region, the first peripheral region to be compressed at a first peripheral level of detail that is less than the central level of detail, and the second peripheral region to be compressed at a second peripheral level of detail that is less than the first peripheral level of detail.
17. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing system to determine the central level of detail and the one or more peripheral levels of detail on one or more of a per pixel basis or a per tile basis.
18. The at least one computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing system to downsize the one or more peripheral regions prior to compression, and wherein the one or more peripheral regions are compressed at a fixed compression ratio.
19. A method comprising: compressing a central region of an image to a central level of detail; compressing one or more peripheral regions of the image to one or more peripheral levels of detail that are less than the central level of detail, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are fixed; and sending the compressed central region and the compressed one or more peripheral regions to a remote display.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions are independent of eye movement with respect to the remote display.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the central region and the one or more peripheral regions correspond to one or more lens characteristics associated with the remote display.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the one or more peripheral regions include a first peripheral region and a second peripheral region, the first peripheral region being compressed at first peripheral level of detail that is less than the central level of detail, and the second peripheral region being compressed at a second peripheral level of detail that is less than the first peripheral level of detail.
23. The method of claim 19, further including determining the central level of detail and the one or more peripheral levels of detail on one or more of a per pixel basis or a per tile basis.
24. The method of claim 19, further including downsizing the one or more peripheral regions prior to compression, wherein the one or more peripheral regions are compressed at a fixed compression ratio.
</claims>
</document>
