<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/09,G01C21/34,G07C5/00,G07C5/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR NORTH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LERNER, EMILY S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72603996
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRIVER SWAPPING
</title>

<abstract>
The efficiency of commercial vehicle operations can be facilitated by using a blockchain. The blockchain can be used to track commercial operators and provide a logistical network for swapping operators. An operator identity for an initial operator of a vehicle and a route limitation indicating operator restrictions with respect to a route can be recorded in a blockchain database. Using a vehicle operation history retrieved from the blockchain database for the initial operator, a time frame for operation of the vehicle by the initial operator can be determined based on the route limitation and the vehicle operation history. An operator swap event at a swap location can be coordinated so that control of the vehicle can be transferred from the initial operator to a subsequent operator based on the time frame. The operator swap event and a subsequent operator identity can be recorded in the blockchain database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for operator monitoring and swapping in commercial vehicles, the system comprising: one or more processors, the one or more processors being programmed to initiate executable operations comprising: recording, in a blockchain database, an operator identity for an initial operator of a vehicle and a route limitation indicating one or more operator restrictions with respect to a route; using a vehicle operation history retrieved from the blockchain database for the initial operator, determining a time frame for operation of the vehicle by the initial operator based on the route limitation and the vehicle operation history; and coordinating an operator swap event at a swap location to transfer control of the vehicle from the initial operator to a subsequent operator based on the time frame, whereby the initial operator and the subsequent operator are navigated to the swap location; and recording, in the blockchain database, the operator swap event and a subsequent operator identity for the subsequent operator of the vehicle.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the executable operations further include: retrieving the vehicle operation history including operation time with respect to the route from the blockchain database for the initial operator.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the executable operations further include: collecting alertness information relating to decreases in attention span and operator exhaustion for the initial operator; and modifying the route limitation with respect to one or more alertness capabilities of the initial operator as predicted from the alertness information.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the executable operations further include: selecting a rest location; and determining a rest interval for the initial operator, wherein the swap location is the rest location.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the executable operations further include: providing a selection of possible rest locations to the initial operator, whereby the rest location is selectable by the initial operator.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the executable operations further include: retrieving a vehicle operation history from the blockchain database for one or more subsequent operator candidates, and selecting the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates with respect to the route limitation.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the executable operations further include: selecting the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates by comparing the route limitation to a desired work frequency and a shift destination for each of the subsequent operator candidates.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein executable operations further include: scheduling a rest period for the initial operator; and establishing an operator swap event between the initial operator and an operator of a second vehicle after the rest period.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for operator monitoring and swapping in commercial vehicles, the non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: record, in a blockchain database, an operator identity for an initial operator of a vehicle and a route limitation indicating one or more operator restrictions with respect to a route; using a vehicle operation history retrieved from the blockchain database for the initial operator, determine a time frame for operation of the vehicle by the initial operator based on the route limitation and the vehicle operation history; coordinate an operator swap event at a swap location to transfer control of the vehicle from the initial operator to a subsequent operator based on the time frame, whereby the initial operator and the subsequent operator are navigated to the swap location; and record the operator swap event and a subsequent operator identity for the subsequent operator of the vehicle in the blockchain database.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein coordinating the operator swap event further comprises instructions to select a rest location and determining a rest interval for the initial operator, wherein the swap location is the rest location.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, further comprising instructions to provide a selection of possible rest locations to the initial operator, wherein the initial operator selects the rest location.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising instructions to retrieve a vehicle operation history from the blockchain database for one or more subsequent operator candidates, and selecting the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates with respect to the route limitation.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising instructions to select the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates by comparing the route limitation to a desired work frequency and a shift destination for each of the subsequent operator candidates.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising instructions to schedule a rest period for the initial operator, and to establish an operator swap event between the initial operator and an operator of a second vehicle after the rest period.
15. A method for operator monitoring and swapping in a commercial vehicle, comprising: recording, in a blockchain database, an operator identity for an initial operator of a vehicle and a route limitation indicating one or more operator restrictions with respect to a route; using a vehicle operation history retrieved from the blockchain database for the initial operator, determining a time frame for operation of the vehicle by the initial operator based on the route limitation and the vehicle operation history; coordinating an operator swap event at a swap location to transfer control of the vehicle from the initial operator to a subsequent operator based on the time frame, whereby the initial operator and the subsequent operator are navigated to the swap location; and recording, in the blockchain database, the operator swap event and a subsequent operator identity for the subsequent operator of the vehicle.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein coordinating the operator swap event includes selecting a rest location and determining a rest interval for the initial operator, wherein the swap location is the rest location.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing a selection of possible rest locations to the initial operator, wherein the initial operator selects the rest location.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising retrieving a vehicle operation history from the blockchain database for one or more subsequent operator candidates, and selecting the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates with respect to the route limitation.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising selecting the subsequent operator from the one or more subsequent operator candidates by comparing the route limitation to a desired work frequency and a shift destination for each of the subsequent operator candidates.
20. The method of claim 15, further comprising scheduling a rest period for the initial operator, and to establish an operator swap event between the initial operator and an operator of a second vehicle after the rest period.
</claims>
</document>
