<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLOREZ CHOQUE, OMAR
SALIMOV, ALAN
KHAZANE, ANISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836555
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR BIMODAL LEARNING IN A FINANCIAL CONTEXT
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for bi-modal learning in a financial context are described. These techniques are configured to improve a user's financial acumen and bring the user into an optimal financial state. Some of these techniques are embodied in a device that operates financial education lessons specifically configured for the improving the user's current financial state. These techniques may implement rewards/penalties (in tokens) for correct/incorrect user responses to financial decisions being presented in these lessons for user to make. By exploiting the user's desire for rewards and tokens and the desire to improve the user's current financial state, these techniques may leverage machine learning techniques to identify an appropriate financial education lesson that is most likely to have a positive effect on the user. Over time, administrating the financial education lessons builds customer loyalty to the device that implements these techniques. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a processing circuit; and logic stored in computer memory and executed on the processing circuit, the logic operative to cause the processing circuit to: initiate, by a generative adversarial network (GAN), a program from a plurality of programs, wherein each program corresponds to a reward or a penalty to a current financial state; compute, by the GAN, an expected financial state for a user based upon decisions made by the user, process, by the GAN, a user response including an answer to a financial decision of the program to determine an actual financial state; and update a feedforward component and a generator component of the GAN based on the answer to the financial decision and the actual financial state.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the processing circuit to: compare, by the GAN, the actual financial state with the expected financial state and an optimal financial state, the optimal financial state determined by a discriminator component of the GAN; and update, by the GAN, the generator component of the GAN based on the comparison.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the optimal financial state is based on upon an age of the user, a financial acumen of the user, or a combination thereof, and the processing circuit to execute the program and process user responses repeatedly until the current financial state substantially equals the optimal financial state.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the generator component to configure the plurality of programs to improve upon the current financial state.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the current financial state comprises a debt-to-token ratio, and an improvement upon the current financial state is a decrease in the debt-to-token ratio.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, the processing circuit to select, via the feedforward component, a different program from the plurality of programs having a highest expected reward based on the comparison and the expected financial state not achieving the optimal financial state, and the highest expected reward computed based on past decisions with the program for the user.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the processing circuit to identify, via the feedforward component, the plurality of programs given a label classification of financial activities and past financial decisions of the user, wherein the label classification is a determined financial acumen for the user.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, the processing circuit to select, via the feedforward component, the program from the plurality of programs having a highest expected reward, and the highest expected reward computed based on past decisions with the program for the user.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, the processing circuit to compute, via the feedforward, the expected financial state, and the expected financial state comprising an expected reward or an expected penalty and an expected debt-to-token ratio based upon the past decisions by the user.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: selecting, by a generative adversarial network (GAN), a program from a plurality of programs, wherein each program corresponds to a reward or a penalty to a current financial state; computing, by the GAN, an expected financial state for a user based upon decisions made by the user, executing, by the GAN, the program including a financial question; receiving, by the GAN, a user response including an answer to the financial question of the program to determine an actual financial state; and updating a feedforward component and a generator component of the GAN based on the answer to the financial question and the actual financial state.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, comprising: comparing, by the GAN, the actual financial state with the expected financial state and an optimal financial state, the optimal financial state determined by a discriminator component of the GAN; and updating, by the GAN, the generator component of the GAN based on the comparison.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the optimal financial state is based on upon an age of the user, a financial acumen of the user, or a combination thereof, and the processing circuit to execute the program and process user responses repeatedly until the current financial state substantially equals the optimal financial state.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the generator component to configure the plurality of programs to improve upon the current financial state.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the current financial state comprises a debt-to-token ratio, and an improvement upon the current financial state is a decrease in the debt-to-token ratio.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, comprising selecting, via the feedforward component of the GAN, a different program from the plurality of programs having a highest expected reward based on the comparison and the expected financial state not achieving the optimal financial state, and the highest expected reward computed based on past decisions with the program for the user.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, comprising identifying, via the feedforward component of the GAN, the plurality of programs given a label classification of financial activities and past financial decisions of the user, wherein the label classification is a determined financial acumen for the user.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, comprising selecting, by the feedforward component of the GAN, the program from the plurality of programs having a highest expected reward, and the highest expected reward computed based on past decisions with the program for the user.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, comprising computing, via the feedforward of the GAN, the expected financial state, and the expected financial state comprising an expected reward or an expected penalty and an expected debt-to-token ratio based upon the past decisions by the user.
19. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a system to: determine, by a generative adversarial network (GAN), a program to present one or more financial questions, the program to issue rewards or penalties to a current financial state in response to user responses; compute, by the GAN, an expected financial state for a user based upon decisions made by the user; execute, by the GAN, the program including the financial question; process, by the GAN, a user response including an answer to the financial question to determine an actual financial state; and update a feedforward component and a generator component of the GAN based on the answer to the financial question and the actual financial state.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a system to determine, via the GAN the program from a plurality of programs having a highest expected reward, and the highest expected reward computed based on past decisions with the program for the user.
</claims>
</document>
