<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F11/34,G06F21/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASAIAH, VINAY
ANAND, PUNEET
Jayaprakash, Ashwin
Jeong, Juhwan
TerBush, Ryan Nicholas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745119
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC APPLICATION DATA COLLECTION FOR POTENTIALLY INSIGHTFUL BUSINESS VALUES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method for automatic application data collection is disclosed. The method illustratively comprises determining a stack trace associated with one or more business transactions, wherein at least one application is configured to perform at least part of the one or more business transactions; identifying, based on the stack trace, one or more methods of the at least one application that were invoked during performance of the one or more business transactions; selecting, from the identified one or more methods, a set of the one or more methods by applying at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods; and configuring one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points, wherein application performance data is generated by instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a process, a stack trace associated with one or more business transactions, wherein at least one application is configured to perform at least part of the one or more business transactions; identifying, by the process and based on the stack trace, one or more methods of the at least one application that were invoked during performance of the one or more business transactions; selecting, by the process and from the identified one or more methods, a set of the one or more methods by applying at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods; and configuring, by the process, one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points, wherein application performance data is generated by instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the stack trace is generated in response to an event selected from the group consisting of an invocation of an exit point interceptor of the at least one application and an asynchronous hand-off from the at least one application.
3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the process, data indicative of the stack trace from the one or more monitoring agents.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein identifying, by the process and based on the stack trace, the one or more methods of the at least one application comprises: identifying, by the process, classes associated with the one or more methods, wherein the set of the one or more methods is further selected based on the classes associated with the one or more methods.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein selecting, by the process and from the identified one or more methods, the set of the one or more methods by applying the at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods comprises: generating, by the process, a score for each of the identified one or more methods; and selecting, by the process, the set of the one or more methods using scores generated for the one or more methods.
6. The method as in claim 5, wherein generating, by the process, the score for each of the identified one or more methods is based on at least one factor selected from the group consisting of a number of Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs) as parameters in an identified method, a number of POJOs as return types in the identified method, a number of primitive types in the identified method, and a number of primitive fields in the identified method.
7. The method as in claim 5, wherein generating, by the process, the score for each of the identified one or more methods is based on a number of private fields or a number of public fields in an identified method.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein configuring, by the process, the one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points comprises: applying, by the process, privacy filters to the instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein configuring, by the process, the one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points comprises: configuring, by the process, a reporting rate of the instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points based on factor selected from the group consisting of a frequency of invocation for the instrumentation, a complexity level of an object associated with the instrumentation, and a depth of data collected by the instrumentation.
10. The method as in claim 9, further comprising: collecting, by the process and from the one or more monitoring agents, the application performance data that is generated by the instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points; and causing, by the process, presentation of the application performance data in a display.
11. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process, when executed, configured to: determine a stack trace associated with one or more business transactions, wherein at least one application is configured to perform at least part of the one or more business transactions; identify, based on the stack trace, one or more methods of the at least one application that were invoked during performance of the one or more business transactions; select, from the identified one or more methods, a set of the one or more methods by applying at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods; and configure one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points, wherein application performance data is generated by instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the stack trace is generated in response to an event selected from the group consisting of an invocation of an exit point interceptor of the at least one application and an asynchronous hand-off from the at least one application.
13. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process, when executed, is further configured to: receive data indicative of the stack trace from the one or more monitoring agents.
14. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein to identify, based on the stack trace, the one or more methods of the at least one application comprises: identifying classes associated with the one or more methods, wherein the set of the one or more methods is further selected based on the classes associated with the one or more methods.
15. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein to select, from the identified one or more methods, the set of the one or more methods by applying the at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods comprises comprises: generating a score for each of the identified one or more methods; and selecting the set of the one or more methods using scores generated for the one or more methods.
16. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein generating the score for each of the identified one or more methods is based on at least one factor selected from the group consisting of a number of Plain Old Java Objects (POJOs) as parameters in an identified method, a number of POJOs as return types in the identified method, a number of primitive types in s the identified method, and a number of primitive fields in the identified method.
17. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein generating, by the process, the score for each of the identified one or more methods is based on a number of private fields or a number of public fields in an identified method.
18. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein to configure the one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points comprises: applying privacy filters to the instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
19. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein to configure the one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points comprises: configuring a reporting rate of the instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points based on factor selected from the group consisting of a frequency of invocation for the instrumentation, a complexity level of an object associated with the instrumentation, and a depth of data collected by the instrumentation.
20. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processor on a computer, cause the computer to perform a method comprising: determining a stack trace associated with one or more business transactions, wherein at least one application is configured to perform at least part of the one or more business transactions; identifying, based on the stack trace, one or more methods of the at least one is application that were invoked during performance of the one or more business transactions; selecting, from the identified one or more methods, a set of the one or more methods by applying at least one scoring heuristic to the identified one or methods; and configuring one or more monitoring agents executing on the at least one application to instrument the selected set of the one or methods at one or more instrumentation points, wherein application performance data is generated by instrumentation of the one or more instrumentation points.
</claims>
</document>
