<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEWAN, PRANITA
GANTI, RAGHU, KIRAN
SRIVATSA, MUDHAKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71404306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating and recommending customized traversal routes
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for implementing customized traversal routes by at least a portion of a processor in a computing environment. One or more traversal routes may be generated from a route network for a user to traverse according to one or more parameters and user preferences. One or more edge metrics may be assigned to the one or more traversal routes while periodically updating the one or more parameters, the user preferences, or a combination thereof associated with the one or more traversal routes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementing customized traversal routes in a computing environment by a processor, comprising: generating one or more traversal routes from a route network for a user to traverse according to one or more parameters and user preferences; and assigning one or more edge metrics to the one or more traversal routes while periodically updating the one or more parameters, the user preferences, or a combination thereof associated with the one or more traversal routes.
2. The method of claim 1, further including defining the one or more parameters to include a distance parameter that is a distance the user intends to traverse or a distance required to traverse on the one or more traversal routes, an elevation parameter as one or more elevations the user intends to ascend or descend for traversing the one or more traversal routes, a popularity parameter as a number of alternative users using the one or more traversal routes equal to or greater than a threshold, wherein the one or more parameters are static, dynamic parameters, or a combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, further including determining a starting location, a finishing location, and one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences, wherein the starting location and the finishing location are defined as two separate locations or defined as the same location.
4. The method of claim 1, further including determining one or more waypoints and a minimum cost path between each of the one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences.
5. The method of claim 1, further including: determining a first minimum cost path between a selected waypoint and a starting location according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences; determining a second minimum cost path between the selected waypoint and a finishing location according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences; and generating a traversal route by joining the first minimum cost path and the second minimum cost path.
6. The method of claim 1, further including: generating one or more sub traversal routes between one or more waypoints according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences; and creating the one or more traversal routes by combining each of the one or more sub traversal routes.
7. The method of claim 1, further including ranking the one or more traversal routes having one or more waypoints according a level of similarity to the one or more parameters and the user preferences.
8. A system for implementing customized traversal routes in a computing environment, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: generate one or more traversal routes from a route network for a user to traverse according to one or more parameters and user preferences; and assign one or more edge metrics to the one or more traversal routes while periodically updating the one or more parameters, the user preferences, or a combination thereof associated with the one or more traversal routes.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further define the one or more parameters to include a distance parameter that is a distance the user intends to traverse or a distance required to traverse on the one or more traversal routes, an elevation parameter as one or more elevations the user intends to ascend or descend for traversing the one or more traversal routes, a popularity parameter as a number of alternative users using the one or more traversal routes equal to or greater than a threshold, wherein the one or more parameters are static, dynamic parameters, or a combination thereof.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine a starting location, a finishing location, and one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences, wherein the starting location and the finishing location are defined as two separate locations or defined as the same location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine one or more waypoints and a minimum cost path between each of the one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and user preferences.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: determine a first minimum cost path between a selected waypoint and a starting location according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; determine a second minimum cost path between the selected waypoint and a finishing location according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; and generate a traversal route by joining the first minimum cost path and the second minimum cost path.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: generate one or more sub traversal routes between one or more waypoints according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; and create the one or more traversal routes by combining each of the one or more sub traversal routes.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further rank the one or more traversal routes having one or more way points according a level of similarity to the one or more parameters and user preferences.
15. A computer program product for, by a processor, combined route planning and opportunistic searching, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that generates one or more traversal routes from a route network for a user to traverse according to one or more parameters and user preferences; and an executable portion that assigns one or more edge metrics to the one or more traversal routes while periodically updating the one or more parameters, the user preferences, or a combination thereof associated with the one or more traversal routes.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: defines the one or more parameters to include a distance parameter that is a distance the user intends to traverse or a distance required to traverse on the one or more traversal routes, an elevation parameter as one or more elevations the user intends to ascend or descend for traversing the one or more traversal routes, a popularity parameter as a number of alternative users using the one or more traversal routes equal to or greater than a threshold, wherein the one or more parameters are static, dynamic parameters, or a combination thereof.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: determines one or more waypoints and a minimum cost path between each of the one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; or determines a starting location, a finishing location, and the one or more waypoints in the route network according to the one or more parameters and the user preferences, wherein the starting location and the finishing location are defined as two separate locations or defined as the same location.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: determines a first minimum cost path between a selected waypoint and a starting location according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; determines a second minimum cost path between the selected waypoint and a finishing location according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; and generates a traversal route by joining the first minimum cost path and the second minimum cost path.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: generates one or more sub traversal routes between one or more waypoints according to the one or more parameters and user preferences; and creates the one or more traversal routes by combining each of the one or more sub traversal routes.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that ranks the one or more traversal routes having one or more way points according a level of similarity to the one or more parameters and user preferences.
</claims>
</document>
