<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N1/14,C12N15/10,C12N15/11,C12N15/80,C12N9/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZYMERGEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDULLA, HASSAN
BOCCAZZI, PAOLO
BRUNO, KENNETH S.
CHAIKIND, BRIAN
CLETO, SARA DA LUZ AREOSA
FONG, III, ARTHUR MUIR
FREDLUND, JENNIFER
POUST, SEAN
ROTHSCHILD-MANCINELLI, KYLE
SUNSPIRAL, VYTAS
SZEWCZYK, EDYTA
VAUGHAN, DYLAN
WESTFALL, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63080458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HTP GENOMIC ENGINEERING PLATFORM FOR IMPROVING FUNGAL STRAINS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a HTP genomic engineering platform for improving filamentous fungal cells that is computationally driven and integrates molecular biology, automation, and advanced machine learning protocols. This integrative platform utilizes a suite of HTP molecular tool sets to create HTP genetic design libraries, which are derived from, inter alia, scientific insight and iterative pattern recognition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A high throughput (HTP) method for generating an isolated clonal population of host cells comprising a genetic variation, comprising the steps of: a) perturbing genomes of a population of host cells to introduce the genetic variation; b) isolating individual host cells produced in step (a) into separate reaction areas in a substrate comprising a plurality of reaction areas, wherein a single-cell microfluidic dispenser combined with optics is used to isolate the individual host cells into the separate reaction areas; c) culturing the isolated host cells in the separate reaction areas, thereby generating a plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations from the isolated host cells; d) screening the plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations for the presence of the genetic variation; and e) selecting the isolated clonal population of host cells comprising the genetic variation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser uses a laser to move the individual cells into the separate reaction areas.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser is selected from the group consisting of: a CellenONE instrument, a Berkeley Lights Beacon instrument, a Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS) instrument, and a Cytena instrument.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser is a Berkeley Lights Beacon instrument.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the genomes of the population of host cells are perturbed to introduce a genetic variation that exists between a parental lineage host cell and a production host cell derived therefrom.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the genomes of the population of host cells are perturbed to introduce a genetic variation from a library selected from the group consisting of a promoter swap microbial strain library, a SNP swap microbial strain library, a start/stop codon microbial strain library, an optimized sequence microbial strain library, a terminator swap microbial strain library, and any combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the perturbing the genomes step comprises using a gene editing technology selected from the group consisting of ZFNs, TALENs, and CRISPR.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the perturbing the genomes step comprises using a ribonucleoprotein complex (RNP-complex) to edit the genomes of the population of host cells.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the RNP-complex comprises an RNA guided endonuclease complexed with a guide RNA (gRNA).
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the RNA guided endonuclease is a Class 2 CRISPR-Cas System RNA guided endonuclease.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the Class 2 CRISPR-Cas system RNA guided endonuclease is selected from the group consisting of a Type II, a Type V, and a Type VI RNA guided endonuclease.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the genomes of the population of host cells are perturbed to introduce a genetic variation that imparts a phenotype to the isolated clonal population of host cells.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the phenotype is an increase in a metric selected from the group consisting of: volumetric productivity of the product of interest, specific productivity of the product of interest, yield of the product of interest, titer of the product of interest, and combinations thereof.
14. The method claim 13, wherein the product of interest is selected from the group consisting of: a small molecule, enzyme, peptide, amino acid, organic acid, synthetic compound, fuel, alcohol, primary extracellular metabolite, secondary extracellular metabolite, intracellular component molecule, and combinations thereof.
15. A high throughput (HTP) method for screening a host cell library for a phenotype, comprising the steps of: a) providing an initial genetic design host cell library containing a plurality of host cells, each host cell having the same genomic strain background, save for an artificially introduced genetic variation; b) isolating individual host cells from the initial host cell genetic design library of step (a) into separate reaction areas in a substrate comprising a plurality of reaction areas, wherein a single-cell microfluidic dispenser combined with optics is used to isolate the individual host cells into the separate reaction areas; c) culturing the isolated host cells in the separate reaction areas, thereby generating a plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations from the isolated host cells; and d) screening and selecting the plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations for the phenotype.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the initial host cell genetic design library comprises a plurality of host cells, each host cell having the same genomic strain background, save for an artificially introduced genetic variation, wherein said genetic variation is selected from amongst a plurality of genetic variations that exist between a parental lineage host cell and a production host cell derived therefrom.
17. The method of claim 15 wherein the initial host cell genetic design library comprises a plurality of host cells, each host cell having the same genomic strain background, save for an artificially introduced genetic variation, wherein said genetic variation is from a library selected from the group consisting of a promoter swap microbial strain library, a SNP swap microbial strain library, a start/stop codon microbial strain library, an optimized sequence microbial strain library, a terminator swap microbial strain library, and any combination thereof.
18. The method of claim 15, comprising further steps of: e) providing a subsequent plurality of host cells that each comprise a unique combination of genetic variation, said genetic variation selected from the genetic variation present in at least two individual host cells screened in a preceding step, to thereby create a subsequent genetic design host cell library; and f) screening and selecting the plurality of host cells in the genetic design host cell library of step (e) for the phenotype.
19. The method of claim 18, comprising further step of: g) repeating steps e)-f) one or more times, in a linear or non-linear fashion, until a host cell exhibits a desired improvement in the phenotype, wherein each subsequent iteration creates a new genetic design host cell library comprising individual host cells harboring genetic variations that are a combination of genetic variation selected from amongst at least two individual host cells of a preceding genetic design host cell library.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser uses a laser to move the individual cells into the separate reaction areas.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser is selected from the group consisting of: a CellenONE instrument, a Berkeley Lights Beacon instrument, a Fluorescence Activated Cell Sorter (FACS) instrument, and a Cytena instrument.
22. The method of claim 15, wherein the single-cell microfluidic dispenser is a Berkeley Lights Beacon instrument.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein the phenotype is an increase in a metric selected from the group consisting of: volumetric productivity of the product of interest, specific productivity of the product of interest, yield of the product of interest, titer of the product of interest, and combinations thereof.
24. The method claim 23, wherein the product of interest is selected from the group consisting of: a small molecule, enzyme, peptide, amino acid, organic acid, synthetic compound, fuel, alcohol, primary extracellular metabolite, secondary extracellular metabolite, intracellular component molecule, and combinations thereof.
25. A system for generating an isolated clonal population of host cells comprising a genetic variation, the system comprising: a) an optofluidic cell sorter; b) one or more processors; and c) one or more memories operatively coupled to at least one of the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, cause the system to: send, to the optofluidic cell sorter, a signal indicative of an instruction to: i) isolate individual host cells from a population of host cells whose genomes have been perturbed to introduce the genetic variation, into separate reaction areas in a substrate comprising a plurality of reaction areas, wherein a single-cell microfluidic dispenser combined with optics is used to isolate the individual host cells into the separate reaction areas; ii) culture the isolated host cells in the separate reaction areas, thereby generating a plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations from the isolated host cells; iii) screen the plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations for the presence of the genetic variation; and iv) select the isolated clonal population of host cells comprising the genetic variation.
26. A system for screening a host cell library for a phenotype, the system comprising: a) an optofluidic cell sorter; b) one or more processors; and c) one or more memories operatively coupled to at least one of the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one of the one or more processors, cause the system to: i) isolate individual host cells from an initial genetic design host cell library into separate reaction areas in a substrate comprising a plurality of reaction areas; 1) wherein a single-cell microfluidic dispenser combined with optics is used to isolate the individual host cells into the separate reaction areas; and 2) wherein the host cell diversity strain library comprises a plurality of host cells, each host cell having the same genomic strain background, save for an artificially introduced genetic variation; ii) culture the isolated host cells in the separate reaction areas, thereby generating a plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations from the isolated host cells; and iii) screen and select the plurality of isolated clonal host cell populations for the phenotype.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the phenotype is an increase in a metric selected from the group consisting of volumetric productivity of the product of interest, specific productivity of the product of interest, yield of the product of interest, titer of the product of interest, and combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
