<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/40,H03M13/29,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L12/751,H04L12/803,H04L12/861,H04L12/933,H04L12/939
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOURI, AHMED
WANG, KE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586623
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING-BASED HIGH-PERFORMANCE, ENERGY-EFFICIENT, FAULT-TOLERANT ON-CHIP COMMUNICATION DESIGN FRAMEWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A proactive fault-tolerant scheme which improves performance and energy efficiency for NoCs. The fault-tolerant scheme allows routers to switch among several different fault-tolerant operations. Each operation mode has different trade-offs among fault-tolerant capability, retransmission traffic, latency, and energy efficiency. Another example provides a proactive, dynamic control policy to balance and optimize the dynamic interactions and trade-offs. The example control policy uses example machine learning algorithm called reinforcement learning (RL). The example RL-based controller independently observes a set of NoC system parameters at runtime, and over time they evolve optimal per-router control policies. By automatically and optimally switching among the four fault-tolerant modes, the trained control policy results in minimizing system level network latency and maximizing energy efficiency while detecting and correcting errors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A router assembly comprising: a plurality of input ports for receiving a plurality of inputs from an upstream router; a plurality of input decoders each receiving one of the plurality of inputs from one of said plurality of input ports and providing a decoded input; a plurality of input storage buffers, each receiving a decoded input from one of said plurality of input decoders; an interconnection device receiving the plurality of decoded inputs from said plurality of second input storage buffers, and providing a plurality of interconnection outputs; a plurality of output encoders each receiving one of said plurality of interconnection outputs and providing an encoded output; and a plurality of output ports each receiving the encoded output from one of said plurality of output encoders.
2. The router assembly of claim 1, further comprising: an error checking encoder encoding source and providing a first encoded error checking output; an error checking input storage buffer receiving the first encoded error checking output from said error checking encoder; said interconnection device receiving the first error checking encoded output from said error checking input storage buffer and receiving a second error checking encoded output from an upstream router assembly; an error checking decoder connected to said interconnection device, receiving the second error checking encoded output, decoding the second error checking encoded output, determining if the second error checking encoded output has error, and sending a retransmit request to the upstream router assembly to retransmit the plurality of inputs if the second error checking encoded output has error; and said plurality of output encoders receiving the first error checking encoded output from said interconnection device.
3. The router assembly of claim 2, wherein said error checking encoder comprises a Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) encoder, and said error correction decoder comprises a CRC decoder.
4. The router assembly of claim 1, wherein said interconnection device comprises a crossbar.
5. The router assembly of claim 1, wherein said plurality of input decoders comprise Automatic Retransmission Query (ARQ) protocol with error correction code (ECC) (ARQ+ECC) decoders, and said plurality of output encoders comprise ARQ+ECC encoders.
6. The router assembly of claim 1, said processing device sending an acknowledgment request to upstream router and receiving an acknowledgement response from a downstream router.
7. The router assembly of claim 6, further comprising a plurality of output buffers each receiving one of the plurality of second interconnection outputs, said processing device further retransmitting the plurality of second interconnection outputs from said plurality of output buffers in response to receiving a negative acknowledgement response from the downstream router.
8. The router assembly of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of output buffers each receiving one of the plurality of second interconnection outputs, said processing device further receiving a retransmit request from a downstream router and retransmitting the plurality of second interconnection outputs from said plurality of output buffers in response to the retransmit request.
9. The router assembly of claim 1, said processing device determining a state of said router assembly based on attributes of said plurality of input ports, said plurality of output ports, said CRC encoder, said CRC decoder, said output buffers, and/or said acknowledgement response.
10. The router assembly of claim 9, said processing device determining an action based on the determined state.
11. The router assembly of claim 9, said processing device disabling at least one of said plurality of input decoders and/or at least one of said plurality of output encoders in response to the determined action.
12. The router assembly of claim 1, further comprising a switch that enables and disables said plurality of output encoders and plurality of input decoders.
13. The router assembly of claim 12, said processing device delaying at least one cycle before receiving input.
14. The router assembly of claim 1, wherein said CRC encoder and CRC decoder perform single-bit error correction and double-bit error detection (SECDED).
15. The router assembly of claim 10, said action comprising fault-tolerant methodology using CRC error detection.
16. The router assembly of claim 10, said action comprising fault-tolerant methodology using SECDED error correction.
17. The router assembly of claim 10, said action comprising fault-tolerant methodology using SECDED error correction with proactive retransmission method.
18. The router assembly of claim 10, said action comprising fault-tolerant methodology using relaxed transmission method.
19. The router assembly of claim 9, wherein said attributes comprise usage of said plurality of second input storage buffers, usage of said plurality of input ports, usage of said plurality of output ports, rate of received negative acknowledgement response, rate of transmitted negative acknowledgement response, and/or temperature.
20. The router assembly of claim 10, further comprising a state-action table associating each state with an associated action.
21. The router assembly of claim 10, said processing device selecting the action with maximum benefit.
22. The router assembly of claim 1, wherein said plurality of input storage buffers each comprise a register.
23. A network comprising: a first router; a second router; and one or more communication links that communicatively couple the first router and the second router, the first router making a determination of which mode of operation will be applied to the communication channel toward the second router.
24. A router assembly comprising: a plurality of input ports for receiving a plurality of inputs from an upstream router; a plurality of input decoders each receiving one of the plurality of inputs from one of said plurality of input ports and providing a decoded input; an interconnection device receiving the plurality of decoded inputs from said plurality of input decoders, and providing a plurality of interconnection outputs; a plurality of output encoders each receiving one of said plurality of interconnection outputs and providing an encoded output; and a plurality of output ports each receiving the encoded output from one of said plurality of output encoders.
</claims>
</document>
