<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/00,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRIPLEBLIND
</assignee>

<inventors>
STORM, GREG
GILKALAYE, BABAK POOREBRAHIM
DAS, RIDDHIMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403979
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENCRYPTING DATA AND ALGORITHMS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for achieving privacy for both data and an algorithm that operates on the data. A system can involve receiving an algorithm from an algorithm provider and receiving data from a data provider, dividing the algorithm into a first algorithm subset and a second algorithm subset and dividing the data into a first data subset and a second data subset, sending the first algorithm subset and the first data subset to the algorithm provider and sending the second algorithm subset and the second data subset to the data provider, receiving a first partial result from the algorithm provider based on the first algorithm subset and first data subset and receiving a second partial result from the data provider based on the second algorithm subset and the second data subset, and determining a combined result based on the first partial result and the second partial result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a computer-readable storage device storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive an algorithm from an algorithm provider; receive data from a data provider; divide the algorithm into a first algorithm subset and a second algorithm subset; divide the data into a first data subset and a second data subset; process the first algorithm subset with the first data subset; process the second algorithm subset with the second data; receive a first partial result based on the first algorithm subset and first data subset and receive a second partial result based on the second algorithm subset and the second data subset; and determine a combined result based on the first partial result and the second partial result.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device stores additional instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: convert the algorithm into a Boolean logic gate set, wherein the first algorithm subset corresponds to a first Boolean logic gate subset of the Boolean logic gate set and wherein the second algorithm subset corresponds to a second Boolean logic gate subset of the Boolean logic gate set.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first Boolean logic gate subset and the second Boolean logic gate subset comprise AND gates and XOR gates.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the algorithm provider comprises at least one first computing device and the data provider comprises at least one second computing device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device stores additional instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: send the combined result to the data provider and display a representation of the combined result.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device stores additional instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: send the combined result to the algorithm provider and display a representation of the combined result.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the algorithm is selected from a list of algorithms provided by the algorithm provider.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the algorithm is represented by one of a Boolean logic set, a neural network or an algebraic circuit.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage device stores additional instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: encrypt the algorithm and encrypt the data.
10. A method comprising: receiving, by at least one processor, an algorithm from an algorithm provider; receiving, by the at least one processor, data from a data provider; dividing, by the at least one processor, the algorithm into a first algorithm subset and a second algorithm subset; dividing, by the at least one processor, the data into a first data subset and a second data subset; processing, by the at least one processor, the first algorithm subset and the first data subset; processing, by the at least one processor, the second algorithm subset and the second data subset; receiving, by the at least one processor, a first partial result based on the first algorithm subset and first data subset and receiving a second partial result based on the second algorithm subset and the second data subset; and determining, by the at least one processor, a combined result based on the first partial result and the second partial result.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the dividing of the algorithm into a first algorithm subset and a second algorithm subset further comprises: converting the algorithm into a Boolean logic gate set, wherein the first algorithm subset is represented by a first Boolean logic gate subset of the Boolean logic gate set and wherein the second algorithm subset is represented by a second Boolean logic gate set.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first Boolean logic gate subset and the second Boolean logic gate subset comprise AND gates and XOR gates.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the algorithm provider comprises at least one first computing device and the data provider comprises at least one second computing device.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: sending the combined result to the data provider and displaying a representation of the combined result.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: sending the combined result to the algorithm provider and displaying a representation of the combined result.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the algorithm is selected from a list of algorithms provided by the algorithm provider.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the algorithm is represented by one of a Boolean logic set, a neural network or an algebraic circuit.
18. The method of claim 10, further comprising encrypting the algorithm and encrypting the data.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored therein instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive an algorithm from an algorithm provider; receive data from a data provider; divide the algorithm into a first algorithm subset and a second algorithm subset; divide the data into a first data subset and a second data subset; send the first algorithm subset and the first data subset to the algorithm provider; send the second algorithm subset and the second data subset to the data provider; receive a first partial result from the algorithm provider based on the first algorithm subset and first data subset and receive a second partial result from the data provider based on the second algorithm subset and the second data subset; and determine a combined result based on the first partial result and the second partial result.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: convert the algorithm into a Boolean logic gate set, wherein the first algorithm subset corresponds to a first Boolean logic gate subset of the Boolean logic gate set and wherein the second algorithm subset corresponds to a second Boolean logic gate subset of the Boolean logic gate set.
</claims>
</document>
