<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Nguyen, Hieu T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514507
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC TARGET RECOGNITION WITH REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for automatic target recognition with reinforcement learning is provided. The apparatus receives an image of a scene and performs an automatic target recognition on the image to detect objects in the image as candidate targets. The apparatus divides the candidate targets into subsets of candidate targets and performs a verification of the automatic target recognition to identify true targets in the image. In the verification, the apparatus solicits user input to manually identify some true targets in the image. The verification is performed according to a reinforcement learning process to minimize a total verification time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for automatic target recognition with reinforcement learning, the apparatus comprising a processor and a memory storing executable instructions that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the apparatus to: receive an image of a scene; perform an automatic target recognition on the image to detect objects in the image as candidate targets; divide the candidate targets into subsets of candidate targets; perform a verification of the automatic target recognition to identify true targets in the image, including the apparatus being caused to: present the image in a graphical user interface (GUI), in which one subset at a time is indicated on the image, sequentially beginning with and including at least a first subset of the subsets of candidate targets; receive user input via the GUI for at least the first subset to verify those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are true targets; and solicit user input to manually identify remaining true targets in the image, wherein the verification is performed according to a reinforcement learning process including an agent to interact with an environment of the GUI and user input in discrete steps, in each of the discrete steps the agent configured to choose a first action to present the image in the GUI in which a current one of the subsets is identified, for receipt of user input via the GUI to verify those of the candidate targets in the current one of the subsets that are true targets, or a second action to solicit the user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image, a reward at each of the discrete steps defined by a negative time for the first action or the second action chosen.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition further includes being caused to classify the objects as the candidate targets with respective classifications, and wherein the apparatus being caused to solicit user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image includes being caused to solicit further user input to classify the remaining true targets.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition includes being caused to detect the objects in the image as the candidate targets with respective confidence scores, and wherein the apparatus being caused to divide the candidate targets includes being caused to divide the candidate targets into the subsets of candidate targets corresponding to different ranges of the confidence scores, the first subset having a highest of the different ranges of the confidence scores.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition includes being caused to detect the objects in the image as the candidate targets using deep learning.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to receive user input further includes being caused to remove from at least the first subset, those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are not true targets.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement learning process includes a Q-learning process, and the verification is performed using the Q-learning process to minimize the total verification time.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition and verification enables identification of all the true targets in the image.
8. A method of automatic target recognition with reinforcement learning, the method comprising: receiving an image of a scene; performing an automatic target recognition on the image to detect objects in the image as candidate targets; dividing the candidate targets into subsets of candidate targets; performing a verification of the automatic target recognition to identify true targets in the image, including: presenting the image in a graphical user interface (GUI), in which one subset at a time is indicated on the image, sequentially beginning with and including at least a first subset of the subsets of candidate targets; receiving user input via the GUI for at least the first subset to verify those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are true targets; and soliciting user input to manually identify remaining true targets in the image, wherein the verification is performed according to a reinforcement learning process including an agent to interact with an environment of the GUI and user input in discrete steps, in each of the discrete steps the agent configured to choose a first action to present the image in the GUI in which a current one of the subsets is identified, for receipt of user input via the GUI to verify those of the candidate targets in the current one of the subsets that are true targets, or a second action to solicit the user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image, a reward at each of the discrete steps defined by a negative time for the first action or the second action chosen.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the automatic target recognition further includes classifying the objects as the candidate targets with respective classifications, and wherein soliciting user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image includes soliciting further user input to classify the remaining true targets.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the automatic target recognition includes detecting the objects in the image as the candidate targets with respective confidence scores, and wherein dividing the candidate targets includes dividing the candidate targets into the subsets of candidate targets corresponding to different ranges of the confidence scores, the first subset having a highest of the different ranges of the confidence scores.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the automatic target recognition includes detecting the objects in the image as the candidate targets using deep learning.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein receiving user input further includes removing from at least the first subset, those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are not true targets.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the reinforcement learning process includes a Q-learning process, and the verification is performed using the Q-learning process to minimize the total verification time.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the automatic target recognition and verification enables identification of all the true targets in the image.
15. A computer-readable storage medium for automatic target recognition with reinforcement learning, the computer-readable storage medium being non-transitory and having computer-readable program code stored therein that in response to execution by a processor, causes an apparatus to: receive an image of a scene; perform an automatic target recognition on the image to detect objects in the image as candidate targets; divide the candidate targets into subsets of candidate targets; perform a verification of the automatic target recognition to identify true targets in the image, including the apparatus being caused to: present the image in a graphical user interface (GUI), in which one subset at a time is indicated on the image, sequentially beginning with and including at least a first subset of the subsets of candidate targets; receive user input via the GUI for at least the first subset to verify those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are true targets; and solicit user input to manually identify remaining true targets in the image, wherein the verification is performed according to a reinforcement learning process including an agent to interact with an environment of the GUI and user input in discrete steps, in each of the discrete steps the agent configured to choose a first action to present the image in the GUI in which a current one of the subsets is identified, for receipt of user input via the GUI to verify those of the candidate targets in the current one of the subsets that are true targets, or a second action to solicit the user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image, a reward at each of the discrete steps defined by a negative time for the first action or the second action chosen.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition further includes being caused to classify the objects as the candidate targets with respective classifications, and wherein the apparatus being caused to solicit user input to manually identify the remaining true targets in the image includes being caused to solicit further user input to classify the remaining true targets.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition includes being caused to detect the objects in the image as the candidate targets with respective confidence scores, and wherein the apparatus being caused to divide the candidate targets includes being caused to divide the candidate targets into the subsets of candidate targets corresponding to different ranges of the confidence scores, the first subset having a highest of the different ranges of the confidence scores.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition includes being caused to detect the objects in the image as the candidate targets using deep learning.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the apparatus being caused to receive user input further includes being caused to remove from at least the first subset, those of the candidate targets in at least the first subset that are not true targets.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the reinforcement learning process includes a Q-learning process, and the verification is performed using the Q-learning process to minimize the total verification time.
21. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform the automatic target recognition and verification enables identification of all the true targets in the image.
</claims>
</document>
