<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C11/418,G11C11/419,H03K19/0948,H03K19/20,H03K19/21
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GSI TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHU, LEE-LEAN
AKERIB, AVIDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70482404
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTATIONAL MEMORY CELL AND PROCESSING ARRAY DEVICE USING COMPLEMENTARY EXCLUSIVE OR MEMORY CELLS
</title>

<abstract>
A memory cell and processing array that has a plurality of memory are capable of performing logic functions, including an exclusive OR (XOR) or an exclusive NOR (XNOR) logic function. The memory cell may have a read port in which the digital data stored in the storage cell of the memory cell is isolated from the read bit line.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A memory computation cell, comprising: a storage cell having data and complementary data; two read bit lines connected to the storage cell that provide read access to the data and complementary data of the storage cell; an isolation circuit connected between the read bit lines and the storage cell that buffers the storage cell from a signal on either of the two read bit lines, the isolation circuit connected to a read word line and a complementary read word line; and wherein each read bit line is capable of performing a logic function when the memory cell is connected to the same read bit line with another memory cell and two logic functions are performed on the two read bit lines.
2. The memory computation cell of claim 1 further comprising a write bit line connected to the memory cell wherein data is written into the storage cell.
3. The memory computation cell of claim 2 further comprising a write port device that buffers the storage cell from the write bit line.
4. The memory computation cell of claim 2 that is capable of performing a selective write operation.
5. The memory computation cell of claim 1, wherein the memory computation cell is a static random access memory cell.
6. The memory computation cell of claim 5, wherein the static random access memory cell is a three port static random access memory cell.
7. The memory computation cell of claim 1, wherein the memory cell is a non-volatile memory.
8. The memory computation cell of claim 7, wherein the non-volatile memory is one of a non-volatile memory cell and a non-volatile memory device.
9. The memory computation cell of claim 1, wherein the isolation circuit further comprises a first set of transistors connected between a complementary read bit line of the two read bit lines and a data storage point of the storage cell.
10. The memory computation cell of claim 9, wherein the first set of transistors further comprises a first transistor whose gate is connected to a complementary read word line and a second transistor whose gate is connected to the data storage point of the storage cell.
11. The memory computation cell of claim 9, wherein the isolation circuit further comprises a second set of transistors connected between a read bit line of the two read bit lines and a complementary data storage point of the storage cell.
12. The memory computation cell of claim 11, wherein the second set of transistors further comprises a third transistor whose gate is connected to a read word line and a fourth transistor whose gate is connected to the complementary data storage point of the storage cell.
13. The memory computation cell of claim 5, wherein the storage cell further comprises a first inverter and a second inverter that the cross coupled to the first inverter.
14. A processing array, comprising: a plurality of read bit lines; an array of memory cells having a plurality of rows of memory cells and a plurality of columns of memory cells, each memory cell having a storage cell, the read bit lines connecting to the columns of memory cells in the memory cell array; the array of memory cells having a first segment comprising at least two rows of memory cells and a second segment comprising one or a plurality of rows of memory cells, the first segment having each column of memory cells connected to at least two of the read bit lines and the second segment having each column of memory cells connected to at least one read bit line; a plurality of bit line read/write circuitry positioned between the first segment and the second segment in the array of memory cells, each bit line read/write circuitry having inputs from the at least two read bit lines of the first segment and an input from the at least one read bit line of the second segment; and wherein each read bit line connected to the memory cells in the first segment is capable of performing a logic function when at least one memory cell is connected to the same read bit line as another memory cell and two logic functions are performed on the two read bit lines in the first segment.
15. The processing array of claim 14, wherein a first input and a carry input of a full adder are stored along the same read bit line of the first segment and wherein a second input of a full adder is stored along the same read bit line of the second segment.
16. The processing array of claim 15, wherein the first input is a signal and the carry input is an inverted signal and the second input is a signal.
17. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises an OR gate that logically ORs the at least two read bit lines of the first segment and generates an output, an inverter that inverts the second input of the full adder to generate an inverted second input, a first AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the OR gate and the inverted second input to generate a first output and a second AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the OR gate and the second input of the full adder to generate a second output.
18. The processing array of claim 17 further comprising a plurality of write bit lines wherein each write bit line is connected to a selected column of memory cells and the bit line read/write circuitry connected to the selected column of memory cells and a plurality of complement write bit lines wherein each complement write bit line is connected to the selected column of memory cells and the bit line read/write circuitry connected to the selected column of memory cells.
19. The processing array of claim 18, wherein the first output is connected to the write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry and the second output is connected to the complement write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry.
20. The processing array of claim 17, wherein the at least two read bit lines of the first segment further comprises a first read bit line and a second read bit line, the first read bit line carrying a signal corresponding to a logical AND of the first input of the full adder and the inverted carry input of the full adder and the second read bit line carrying a signal corresponding to a logical AND of an inverted first input of the full adder and a carry input of the full adder.
21. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises an XOR gate that logically XORs the at least two read bit lines of the first segment and generates an output, an inverter that inverts the second input of the full adder, a first AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the XOR gate and the inverted second input of the full adder to generate a first output and a second AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the XOR gate and the second input of the full adder to generate a second output.
22. The processing array of claim 21 further comprising a plurality of write bit lines wherein each write bit line is connected to a selected column of memory cells and the bit line read/write circuitry connected to the selected column of memory cells and a plurality of complement write bit lines wherein each complement write bit line is connected to the selected column of memory cells and the bit line read/write circuitry connected to the selected column of memory cells.
23. The processing array of claim 22, wherein the first output is connected to the write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry and the second output is connected to the complement write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry.
24. The processing array of claim 21, wherein the at least two read bit lines of the first segment further comprises a first read bit line and a second read bit line, the first read bit line carrying a signal corresponding to the first input of the full adder and the second read bit line carrying a signal corresponding to a logical NOT of the inverted carry input of the full adder.
25. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises an AND gate that logically ANDs the at least two read bit lines of the first segment and the read bit line of the second segment and generates an output, an inverter that inverts a write data signal, a first AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the AND gate and the inverted write data signal to generate a first output and a second AND gate that logically ANDs the output of the AND gate and the write data signal to generate a second output.
26. The processing array of claim 25, wherein the search operation is performed on the first segment and the second segment.
27. The processing array of claim 25, wherein the first output is connected to a write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry and the second output is connected to a complementary write bit line connected to the bit line read/write circuitry.
28. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a full adder operation, a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a search operation, a first multiplexer that selects one of the selective write control signal for a full adder operation and the selective write control signal for a search operation and a second multiplexer that generates write data for the selective write operation.
29. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a full adder operation, a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a search operation, a first multiplexer that selects one of the selective write control signal for a full adder operation, the selective write control signal for a search operation and a write data control signal and a second multiplexer that generates write data for the selective write operation.
30. The processing array of claim 16, wherein each bit line read/write circuitry further comprises a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a full adder operation, a logic gate that generates a selective write control signal for a search operation, a first multiplexer that selects one of the selective write control signal for a full adder operation, the selective write control signal for a search operation and a write data control signal, a second multiplexer that generates write data for the selective write operation and a third multiplexer that selects one of the generated write data from the second multiplexer and a write data signal generated from the combined Boolean operation of the two read bit lines from the first segment and the read bit line from the second segment and a write data signal external to the processing array.
</claims>
</document>
