<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6883,G01N33/483,G16B20/00,G16B25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LINEAGEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENSEL, CHARLES H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53403909
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIAGNOSIS AND PREDICTION OF AUTISM SPECTRUM DISORDER
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and compositions for the detection of single nucleotide polymorphisms in a sample are provided. The methods and compositions are employed to determine whether the subject has autism spectrum disorder (ASD), is likely to develop ASD, or to classify a subject as having a particular ASD subtype. In one method of the invention, a sample is probed for one or more SNPs in Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 at the nucleic acid level by performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers specific to the SNPs. The presence and/or absence of the one or more SNPs is then compared to the presence and/or absence of the of the SNPs in at least one sample training set(s), where the comparing step comprises applying a statistical algorithm which comprises determining a correlation between the SNP data obtained from the sample and the SNP data from the at least one training set. The sample is diagnosed as ASD positive or ASD negative based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for diagnosing a sample from a human subject as ASD-positive or ASD negative, comprising detecting the presence of one or more single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) classifier biomarkers in Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 at the nucleic acid level by performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers specific to the classifier biomarkers; comparing the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 to the presence and/or absence of the of said SNP classifier biomarkers in at least one sample training set(s), wherein the at least one sample training set(s) comprise (i) data of the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 from an ASD positive sample or (ii) data of the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 from an ASD-negative sample, and the comparing step comprises applying a statistical algorithm which comprises determining a correlation between the SNP classifier biomarker data obtained from the sample and the SNP classifier biomarker data from the at least one training set; and diagnosing the sample as ASD positive or ASD negative based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
2. A method for classifying a sample from a human subject as a particular ASD subtype, comprising, detecting the presence of one or more SNP classifier biomarkers in Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 at the nucleic acid level by performing a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers specific to the classifier biomarkers; comparing the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 to the presence and/or absence of the of said SNP classifier biomarkers in at least one sample training set(s), wherein the at least one sample training set(s) comprise (i) data of the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 from a first ASD subtype positive sample or (ii) data of the presence and/or absence of the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers of Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 6 or Table 7 from a second ASD subtype-positive sample, and the comparing step comprises applying a statistical algorithm which comprises determining a correlation between the SNP classifier biomarker data obtained from the sample and the SNP classifier biomarker data from the at least one training set; and diagnosing the sample as a particular ASD subtype based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprises two or more SNP classifier biomarkers, three or more SNP classifier biomarkers, four or more SNP classifier biomarkers, five or more SNP classifier biomarkers, six or more SNP classifier biomarkers, seven or more SNP classifier biomarkers, eight or more SNP classifier biomarkers, nine or more SNP classifier biomarkers, ten or more SNP classifier biomarkers, eleven or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twelve or more SNP classifier biomarkers, thirteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, fourteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, fifteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twenty or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twenty-five or more SNP classifier biomarkers, or thirty or more SNP classifier biomarkers.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the hybridization assay is a microarray assay.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the hybridization assay is a sequencing assay.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample is from the human subject is a buccal sample.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying the human subject for ASD therapy based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the first ASD subtype and second ASD subtype are selected from the group consisting of Autistic disorder (classic autism), Asperger's disorder (Asperger syndrome), Pervasive developmental disorder not otherwise specified (PDD-NOS), and Childhood disintegrative disorder (CDD), wherein the first ASD subtype and second ASD subtype are different.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprise SNPs in the RAB11FIP5, ABP1, and JMJD7-PLA2G4B genes.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprise SNPs in the RAB11FIP5, ABP1, and JMJD7-PLA2G4B genes and wherein the RAB11FIP5 SNP is located at chr2: 73302656 (hg19), the ABP1 SNP is located at chr7:150554592 (hg19) and the JMJD7-PLA2G4B SNP is located at chr 15:42133295 (hg19).
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the sequencing assay is a high throughput sequencing assay.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprises two or more SNP classifier biomarkers, three or more SNP classifier biomarkers, four or more SNP classifier biomarkers, five or more SNP classifier biomarkers, six or more SNP classifier biomarkers, seven or more SNP classifier biomarkers, eight or more SNP classifier biomarkers, nine or more SNP classifier biomarkers, ten or more SNP classifier biomarkers, eleven or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twelve or more SNP classifier biomarkers, thirteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, fourteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, fifteen or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twenty or more SNP classifier biomarkers, twenty-five or more SNP classifier biomarkers, or thirty or more SNP classifier biomarkers.
13. The method of claim 2, wherein the hybridization assay is a microarray assay.
14. The method of claim 2, wherein the hybridization assay is a sequencing assay.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the sample is from the human subject is a buccal sample.
16. The method claim 2, further comprising identifying the human subject for ASD therapy based on the results of the statistical algorithm.
17. The method claim 2, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprise SNPs in the RAB11FIP5, ABP1, and JMJD7-PLA2G4B genes.
18. The method claim 2, wherein the one or more SNP classifier biomarkers comprise SNPs in the RAB11FIP5, ABP1, and JMJD7-PLA2G4B genes and wherein the RAB11FIP5 SNP is located at chr2: 73302656 (hg19), the ABP1 SNP is located at chr7:150554592 (hg19) and the JMJD7-PLA2G4B SNP is located at chr 15:42133295 (hg19).
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the sequencing assay is a high throughput sequencing assay.
</claims>
</document>
