<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE TORONTO DOMINION BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOON, TAE GYUN
MCCARTER, ROBERT ALEXANDER
ROBERTS, KHEIVER KAYODE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70050844
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated population of deep-linked interfaces during programmatically established chatbot sessions
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed exemplary embodiments include computer-implemented apparatuses and processes that automatically populate deep-linked interfaces based n programmatically established chatbot sessions. For example, an apparatus may determine a candidate parameter value for a first parameter of an exchange of data based on received messaging information and on information characterizing prior exchanges of data between a device and the apparatus. The apparatus may also generate interface data that associates the first candidate parameter value with a corresponding interface element of a first digital interface, and may store the store interface data within a data repository. In some instances, the apparatus may transmit linking data associated with the stored interface data to the device, and an application program executed by the device may present a representation of the linking data within a second digital interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a communications unit; a storage unit storing instructions; and at least one processor coupled to the communications unit and the storage unit, the at least one processor being configured to execute the instructions to: receive, via the communications unit, a first signal from a device that includes messaging information; determine a candidate parameter value for a first parameter of an exchange of data based on the messaging information and on information characterizing prior exchanges of data between the device and the apparatus; generate interface data based on the first candidate parameter value and store the interface data within the storage unit, the generated interface data associating the first candidate parameter value with a corresponding interface element of a first digital interface; and generate and transmit, via the communications unit, a second signal to the device, the second signal comprising linking data associated with the stored interface data, and the second signal comprising information that causes an application program executed by the device to present a representation of the linking data within a second digital interface.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine the first candidate parameter value based on an application of a statistical process, a machine learning process, or an artificial intelligence process to at least one of a portion of the messaging information or a portion of the information characterizing the prior data exchanges.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to establish a communications session with the application program executed by the device, the messaging information being generated by the executed application program during the established communications session.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: load, from the storage unit, profile information associated with the device and session information identifying additional elements of messaging data exchanged between the device and the apparatus during one or more prior communications sessions; and determine the first candidate parameter value based on a portion of the messaging information and portions of the profile information, the information characterizing the prior data exchanges, and the session information.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine the first candidate parameter value based on an application of a statistical process, a machine learning process, or an artificial intelligence process to at least one of the portion of the messaging information or the portions of the profile information, the information characterizing the prior data exchanges, and the session information.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine a candidate parameter value for one or more second parameters of the data exchange based on the messaging information and on the information characterizing the prior data exchanges; and generate the interface data based on the first and second candidate parameter values, the generated interface data associating each of the first and second candidate parameter values with a corresponding one of the interface elements of the first digital interface.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the linking data characterizes a deep link to the stored interface data; the information further causes the application program executed by the device to present a representation of the deep link within the second digital interface; and the at least one processor is further configured to receive a third signal from the device via the communications unit, the third signal comprising a first request for the stored interface data associated with the deep link, the first request comprising a portion of the linking data.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the executed application program generates the first request in response to a receipt of input data indicative of a selection of the presented representation of the deep link by a user of the device.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: based on the portion of the linking data, load the stored interface data from the storage unit; and generate and transmit, via the communications unit, a fourth signal that includes the stored interface data to the device, the fourth signal comprising additional information that causes the executed application program to present the first digital interface in accordance with the stored interface data and populate the corresponding interface element of the first digital interface with the first candidate parameter value.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive a fifth signal from the device via the communications unit, the fifth signal comprising a second request to initiate the data exchange in accordance with the first candidate parameter value, the second request being generated by the executed application program; and based on the second request, perform operations that initiate the data exchange in accordance with at least the first candidate parameter value.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to identify one or more discrete linguistic elements within the messaging data based on an application of a statistical process, a machine learning process, or an artificial intelligence process to portions of the messaging data.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that the one or more discrete linguistic elements establish an incomplete portion of first candidate parameter value; and determine the first candidate parameter value based on the incomplete portion and the information characterizing the prior data exchanges.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that the one or more discrete linguistic elements establish a candidate parameter value of a second parameter of the data exchange; and generate the interface data based on the first and second candidate parameter values, the generated interface data associating each of the first and second candidate parameter value with a corresponding one of the interface elements of the first digital interface.
14. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, using at least one processor, a first signal from a device that includes messaging information; determining, using the at least one processor, a candidate parameter value for a first parameter of an exchange of data based on the messaging information and information characterizing prior exchanges of data between the device and a computing system; using the at least one processor, generating interface data based on the first candidate parameter value and storing the interface data within a storage unit, the generated interface data associating the first candidate parameter value with a corresponding interface element of a first digital interface; and generating and transmitting, using the at least one processor, a second signal to the device, the second signal comprising linking data associated with the stored interface data, and the second signal comprising information that causes an application program executed by the device to present a representation of the linking data within a second digital interface.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising determining the first candidate parameter value based on an application of a statistical process, a machine learning process, or an artificial intelligence process to at least one of a portion of the messaging information or a portion of the information characterizing the prior data exchanges.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: establishing a communications session with the application program executed by the device, the messaging information being generated by the executed application program during the established communications session; loading, from the storage unit, profile information associated with the device and session information identifying additional elements of messaging data exchanged with the device during one or more prior communications sessions; and determining the first candidate parameter value based on an application of a statistical process, a machine learning process, or an artificial intelligence process to at least one of a portion of the messaging information or to portions of the profile information, the information characterizing the prior data exchanges, and the session information.
17. A device, comprising: a communications unit; a display unit; a storage unit storing instructions; and at least one processor coupled to the communications unit, the display unit, and the storage unit, the at least one processor being configured to execute the instructions to: initiate a communications session with an application program executed by a computing system; generate and transmit a first signal to the computing system via the communications unit, the first signal comprising messaging information generated during the communications session, the messaging information being associated with an exchange of data; receive a second signal from the computing system via the communications unit, the second signal comprising linking data associated with interface data maintained by the computing system, the interface data associating a first candidate parameter value of the data exchange with a corresponding interface element of a first digital interface; and generate and present, via the display unit, a second digital interface that includes a representation of the linking data.
18. The device of claim 17, further comprising an input unit coupled to the processor, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, via the input unit, first input data indicative of a selection of the representation of the linking data; based on the first input data, generate and transmit, via the communications unit, a third signal that includes a portion of the linking data to the computing system.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive a fourth signal from the computing system via the communications unit, the fourth signal comprising the interface data associated with the linking data; generate and present, via the display unit, the first digital interface in accordance with the interface data; and performing operations that, via the display unit, modify the presented first digital interface and populate the corresponding interface element with the first candidate parameter value.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, via the input unit, second input data indicative of a request to initiate the data exchange in accordance with the first candidate parameter value; generate data characterizing the requested initiation of the data exchange, the request data comprising the first candidate parameter value; and generate and transmit, via the communications unit, a fifth signal to the computing system that includes the request data, the request data causing the application program executed by the computing system to initiate the data exchange in accordance with the first candidate parameter value.
</claims>
</document>
