<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G11B27/031,G11B27/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, DAMING
TIAN, HAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73918787
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DETERMINING (RAW) VIDEO MATERIALS FOR NEWS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure discloses a method and apparatus for determining video material of news. The method for determining video material of news comprises: recognizing a person name in a news text; searching a video based on the person name, to obtain a to-be-selected video; extracting a key frame in the to-be-selected video; recognizing a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person; and determining the to-be-selected video as video material of news, in response to the identity information of the person conforming to the person name. The present disclosure improves the consistency between the video material of the news and the news text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining video material of news, comprising: recognizing a person name in a news text, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text comprises: for a given sentence: performing a character observation, solving a character token for each segmented word, performing a maximum matching on the character token, and performing a word segmentation, to obtain a segmentation result as a final recognition result; searching a video based on the person name, to obtain a to-be-selected video including a plurality of frames; extracting a key frame in the to-be-selected video, the key frame being a frame selected from the to-be-selected video at an interval of a predetermined number of frames; recognizing a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person; and determining the to-be-selected video as video material of news, in response to the identity information of the person conforming to the person name; and playing the video material of news when the news text is broadcasted.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text includes: recognizing the person name in the news text using named entity recognition; or recognizing the person name in the news text using a jieba word segmentation system.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recognizing a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person includes: recognizing voice, a body shape or a gait of the person in the key frame, to obtain the identity information of the person.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: segmenting, in response to a play duration of the video material of the news exceeding a play duration required by the news, the video material of the news based on a video frame having a changed scene in the video material of the news; and updating the video material of the news using the segmented video material.
5. (canceled)
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the news text includes: a full text of the news and/or a summary paragraph in the full text of the news.
7. An apparatus for determining video material of news, comprising: a text recognizing unit, configured to recognize a person name in a news text, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text comprises: for a given sentence: performing a character observation, solving a character token for each segmented word, performing a maximum matching on the character token, and performing a word segmentation, to obtain a segmentation result as a final recognition result; a searching unit, configured to search a video based on the person name, to obtain a to-be-selected video including a plurality of frames; an extracting unit, configured to extract a key frame in the to-be-selected video, the key frame being a frame selected from the to-be-selected video at an interval of a predetermined number of frames; an identity recognizing unit, configured to recognize a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person; and a determining unit, configured to determine the to-be-selected video as video material of news, in response to the identity information of the person conforming to the person name; and a playing unit, configured to play the video material of the news when the news text is broadcasted.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the text recognizing unit is further configured to: recognize the person name in the news text using named entity recognition; or recognize the person name in the news text using a jieba word segmentation system.
9. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the identity recognizing unit is further configured to: recognize voice, a body shape or a gait of the person in the key frame, to obtain the identity information of the person.
10. The apparatus according to claim 7, further comprising: a segmenting unit, configured to segment, in response to a play duration of the video material of the news exceeding a play duration required by the news, the video material of the news based on a video frame having a changed scene in the video material of the news; and an updating unit, configured to update the video material of the news using the segmented video material.
11. (canceled)
12. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the news text recognized in the text recognizing unit includes: a full text of the news and/or a summary paragraph in the full text of the news.
13. A server, comprising: an interface; a storage device, storing one or more programs; and one or more processors, operatively connected to the interface and the storage device to: recognize a person name in a news text, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text comprises: for a given sentence: performing a character observation, solving a character token for each segmented word, performing a maximum matching on the character token, and performing a word segmentation, to obtain a segmentation result as a final recognition result; search a video based on the person name, to obtain a to-be-selected video including a plurality of frames; extract a key frame in the to-be-selected video, the key frame being a frame selected from the to-be-selected video at an interval of a predetermined number of frames; recognize a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person; determine the to-be-selected video as video material of news, in response to the identity information of the person conforming to the person name; and play the video material of the news when the news text is broadcasted.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, storing a computer program, wherein the computer program, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to: recognize a person name in a news text, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text comprises: for a given sentence: performing a character observation, solving a character token for each segmented word, performing a maximum matching on the character token, and performing a word segmentation, to obtain a segmentation result as a final recognition result; search a video based on the person name, to obtain a to-be-selected video including a plurality of frames; extract a key frame in the to-be-selected video, the key frame being a frame selected from the to-be-selected video at an interval of a predetermined number of frames; recognize a person in the key frame to obtain identity information of the person; determine the to-be-selected video as video material of news, in response to the identity information of the person conforming to the person name; and play the video material of the news when the news text is broadcasted.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein a Viterbi algorithm is used to solve the character token for each segmented word, and the word segmentation is performed using the Viterbi algorithm.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recognizing a person name in a news text comprises: recognizing the person name in the news text using named entity recognition.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the recognizing the person name in the news text using named entity recognition comprises: regarding the named entity recognition as a sequence labeling task; mapping token from a discrete one-hot representation into low-dimensional space to become dense embedding; inputting an embedding sequence of a sentence into a neural network; extracting feature using the neural network; and predicting a tag of each token using the neural network.
</claims>
</document>
