<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/08,H04W28/02,H04W28/06,H04W76/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
Veggalam, Vijay
Gaigalas, Gintaras
Bakeman, Travis Paul
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916810
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK CONFIGURATION USING CELL CONGESTION PREDICTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A telecommunication network associated with a wireless telecommunication provider can be configured based, at least in part, on one or more predictions of cell congestion. Data that may be utilized in the prediction of congestion is received and/or collected from one or more components. According to some examples, machine learning is utilized to generate the predictions. The prediction of cell congestion may be a prediction of congestion for a particular cell, or a group of cells (e.g., cells that exhibit similar activity may be clustered). In some configurations, cells that have exhibited congestion may be grouped or clustered such that a user may be able to more easily view mitigation solutions attempted in the past to address the congestion. After generating the cell congestion predictions, one or more actions may be taken to mitigate the predicted congestion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; a memory; and one or more components stored in the memory and executable by the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: accessing historical data associated with performance of one or more cells of a telecommunication network; providing at least a portion of the historical data to one or more machine learning mechanism to generate cell congestion prediction data for at least one of the one or more cells; and causing one or more actions to be performed to reduce a congestion of the at least one of the one or more cells based, at least in part, on the cell congestion prediction data.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising monitoring one or more performance indicators associated with the one or more cells within the telecommunication network to generate at least a portion of the historical data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the monitoring the one or more performance indicators comprises monitoring one or more of a Radio Resource Control (RRC) Connected User Endpoints (UEs) performance indicator, or a Control Channel Element (CCE) Blocking performance indicator.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein providing the at least the portion of the historical data to the one or more machine learning mechanisms comprises providing at least two weeks of the historical data that includes data generated from the monitoring of the one or more performance indicators.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises providing congestion data to a computing device associated with an operator of the telecommunications network, wherein the congestion data identifies the at least one of the one or more cells and one or more strategies to mitigate cell congestion for the at least one of the one or more cells.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises causing one or more components of the telecommunications network to re-configure.
7. A computer-implemented method performed by one or more processors configured with specific instructions, the computer-implemented method comprising: accessing historical data associated with performance of one or more cells of a telecommunication network; providing at least a portion of the historical data to one or more machine learning mechanisms to generate cell congestion prediction data for at least one of the one or more cells; and causing one or more actions to be performed to reduce a congestion of the at least one of the one or more cells based, at least in part, on the cell congestion prediction data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, further comprising monitoring performance indicators associated with the one or more cells within the telecommunication network to generate at least a portion of the historical data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising clustering cells of the telecommunication network into a plurality of clusters based, at least in part, on the monitoring the performance indicators.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein monitoring the performance indicators associated with the one or more cells comprises generating hourly data associated with the performance indicators.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the monitoring the performance indicators comprises monitoring one or more of: Radio Resource Control (RRC) Connected User Endpoints (UEs), Control Channel Element (CCE) Blocking, Uplink (UL) Traffic Volume, Downlink (DL) Traffic Volume, or Radio Access Bearer (E-RAB) Setup Failures.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises providing congestion data to a computing device associated with an operator of the telecommunications network, wherein the congestion data identifies the at least one of the one or more cells.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises causing one or more components of the telecommunications network to re-configure.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors of a computing device to perform acts comprising: providing historical data to one or more machine learning mechanisms to generate cell congestion prediction data for cells of a telecommunication network, wherein the historical data is associated with performance of the cells; and causing one or more actions to be performed to reduce a congestion of one or more of the cells based, at least in part, on the cell congestion prediction data.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the acts further comprise monitoring performance indicators associated with the cells to generate least a portion of the historical data.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the acts further comprise clustering cells of the telecommunication network into a plurality of clusters based, at least in part, on the monitoring the performance indicators.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the monitoring the performance indicators comprises monitoring one or more of: Radio Resource Control (RRC) Connected User Endpoints (UEs), or Control Channel Element (CCE) Blocking.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises providing congestion data to a computing device associated with an operator of the telecommunications network, wherein the congestion data identifies the at least one of the one or more cells.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises providing one or more strategies to a computing device associated with an operator of the telecommunications network.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein causing the one or more actions to be performed comprises causing one or more components of the telecommunications network to re-configure.
</claims>
</document>
