<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABRAHAMS, FARIED
DHONDSE, AMOL
MUKHERJEE, MAHARAJ
PIKLE, ANAND
SIVAKUMAR, GANDHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT CLASSIFICATION FOR PRODUCT PEDIGREE IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for intelligent classification for product pedigree identification are presented. A transactional block may be dynamically created for recording both pedigree information for one or more supply ingredients at a time of origin and one or more parameters relating to the one or more supply ingredients at each temporal event. One or more transactional blocks may be linked via a shared ledger according to the one or more supply ingredients and the one or more parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for using blockchain for intelligent classification for product pedigree identification by a processor, comprising: dynamically creating a transactional block for recording both pedigree information for one or more supply ingredients at a time of origin and one or more parameters relating to the one or more supply ingredients at each temporal event; and linking one or more transactional blocks via a shared ledger according to the one or more supply ingredients and the one or more parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, further including recording the pedigree information and the one or more parameters of each temporal event on the shared ledger.
3. The method of claim 1, further including extracting the one or more parameters and one or more variables from one or more data sources.
4. The method of claim 1, further including associating the one or more parameters and one or more variables with the one or more supply ingredients.
5. The method of claim 1, further including determining each temporal event or changes to each of the temporal events according to the one or more parameters, one or more variables, fluctuations in the one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
6. The method of claim 1, further including dynamically building one or more relationships between one or more supply ingredients according to the one or more parameters, a classification, a selected location, a profile of each of the one or more supply ingredients, one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, further including determining a match between the one or more supply ingredients and one or more alternative supply ingredients for linking the one or more transactional blocks via the shared ledger.
8. A system for using blockchain for intelligent classification for product pedigree identification, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: dynamically create a transactional block for recording both pedigree information for one or more supply ingredients at a time of origin and one or more parameters relating to the one or more supply ingredients at each temporal event; and link one or more transactional blocks via a shared ledger according to the one or more supply ingredients and the one or more parameters.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further record the pedigree information and the one or more parameters of each temporal event on the shared ledger.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further extract the one or more parameters and one or more variables from one or more data sources.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further associate the one or more parameters and one or more variables with the one or more supply ingredients.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine each temporal event or changes to each of the temporal events according to the one or more parameters, one or more variables, fluctuations in the one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further dynamically build one or more relationships between one or more supply ingredients according to the one or more parameters, a classification, a selected location, a profile of each of the one or more supply ingredients, one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine a match between the one or more supply ingredients and one or more alternative supply ingredients for linking the one or more transactional blocks via the shared ledger.
15. A computer program product for using blockchain for intelligent classification for product pedigree identification, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that dynamically creates a transactional block for recording both pedigree information for one or more supply ingredients at a time of origin and one or more parameters relating to the one or more supply ingredients at each temporal event; and an executable portion that links one or more transactional blocks via a shared ledger according to the one or more supply ingredients and the one or more parameters.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that records the pedigree information and the one or more parameters of each temporal event on the shared ledger.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: extracts the one or more parameters and one or more variables from one or more data sources; and associates the one or more parameters and one or more variables with the one or more supply ingredients.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that determines each temporal event or changes to each of the temporal events according to the one or more parameters, one or more variables, fluctuations in the one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that dynamically builds one or more relationships between one or more supply ingredients according to the one or more parameters, a classification, a selected location, a profile of each of the one or more supply ingredients, one or more variables, or a combination thereof.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that determines a match between the one or more supply ingredients and one or more alternative supply ingredients for linking the one or more transactional blocks via the shared ledger.
</claims>
</document>
