<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,H04W4/33,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SYRJARINNE, JARI TAPANI
KHAN, MUHAMMAD IRSHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59683553
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-CORRECTION OF A RADIO MAP
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus and system are provided for determining displacement information for a radio node. In a method respective position information is obtained that is indicative of a position of a respective radio node. The method determines the position of the respective radio node based on respective radio measurements of further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and on further respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node. The respective signals are sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node. The method also determines displacement information based on the respective position information that is obtained and the determined position of the respective radio node. The displacement information is indicative of a displacement of the respective radio node if the determined position of the respective radio node differs from the position of the respective radio node represented by the obtained position information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, performed by at least one apparatus, comprising: obtaining a piece of respective position information, wherein the piece of respective position information is indicative of a position of a respective radio node in a venue, wherein the piece of respective position information is stored in a memory prior to the obtaining; determining the position of the respective radio node in the venue based at least partially on one or more respective radio measurements of one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and on one or more further respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node, wherein one or more respective signals are sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node, and wherein one or more pieces of respective identifier information associated with the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node are comprised by the one or more respective signals sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node; and determining a piece of respective displacement information based on the obtained piece of respective position information and the determined position of the respective radio node, wherein the piece of respective displacement information is indicative of a displacement of the respective radio node in case the determined position of the respective radio node differs from the position of the respective radio node represented by the obtained piece of position information.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes are determined based on the one or more pieces of respective identifier information, wherein the respective radio measurements and the piece of respective position information form a respective fingerprint.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the position of the respective radio node is determined based on a weighted mean calculation using one or more normalized weights being dependent on at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node and the determined one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the one or more normalized weights are determined based at least partially on one or more respective likelihood values, wherein each respective likelihood value of the one or more respective likelihood values are being indicative of the at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node being concentrated at the position of the respective radio node.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: updating the stored piece of respective position information with the determined position of the respective radio node in case the determined piece of respective displacement information is indicative of that the obtained piece of respective position information is not valid.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: determining one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes, wherein the one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes are determined based on the one or more pieces of respective identifier information, wherein the respective radio measurements and the piece of respective position information form a respective fingerprint; and generating a radio map based at least partially on the one or more respective fingerprints of the one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node; and wherein the position of the respective radio node is determined based at least partially on the generated radio map.
7. (canceled)
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the respective radio node is capable of broadcasting one or more respective fingerprints collected by itself.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the memory storing the one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes of the venue is accessible by the one or more respective radio nodes.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more respective radio measurements of the one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and the one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more further respective radio nodes form one or more respective fingerprints.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node is determined based at least partially on the one or more respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the position of the respective radio node in the venue is determined based at least partially on a generated radio map and on the one or more respective radio measurements, wherein the radio map is generated based at least partially on the one or more respective fingerprints.
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. An apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to at least perform: obtaining a piece of respective position information, wherein the piece of respective position information is indicative of a position of a respective radio node in a venue, wherein the piece of respective position information is stored in a memory prior to the obtaining; determining the position of the respective radio node in the venue based at least partially on one or more respective radio measurements of one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and on one or more further respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node, wherein one or more respective signals are sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node, and wherein one or more pieces of respective identifier information associated with the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node are comprised by the one or more respective signals sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node; and determining a piece of respective displacement information based on the obtained piece of respective position information and the determined position of the respective radio node, wherein the piece of respective displacement information is indicative of a displacement of the respective radio node in case the determined position of the respective radio node differs from the position of the respective radio node represented by the obtained piece of position information.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes are determined based on the one or more pieces of respective identifier information, wherein the respective radio measurements and the piece of respective position information form a respective fingerprint.
17. The apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the position of the respective radio node is determined based on a weighted mean calculation using one or more normalized weights being dependent on at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node and the determined one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the one or more normalized weights are determined based at least partially on one or more respective likelihood values, wherein each respective likelihood value of the one or more respective likelihood values are being indicative of the at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node being concentrated at the position of the respective radio node.
19. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are t configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: updating the stored piece of respective position information with the determined position of the respective radio node in case the determined piece of respective displacement information is indicative of that the obtained piece of respective position information is not valid.
20. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are further configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: determining one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes, wherein the one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more respective radio nodes are determined based on the one or more pieces of respective identifier information, wherein the respective radio measurements and the piece of respective position information form a respective fingerprint; and generating a radio map based at least partially on the one or more respective fingerprints of the one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node; and wherein the position of the respective radio node is determined based at least partially on the generated radio map.
21. (canceled)
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the one or more respective radio measurements of the one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and the one or more pieces of respective position information of the one or more further respective radio nodes form one or more respective fingerprints.
25. The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein at least one respective received signal strengths value of the one or more respective signals received by the respective radio node is determined based at least partially on the one or more respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node.
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. A system, comprising: at least one apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code; and one or more radio nodes configured to provide one or more gathered respective radio measurements; wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to at least perform: obtaining a piece of respective position information, wherein the piece of respective position information is indicative of a position of a respective radio node in a venue, wherein the piece of respective position information is stored in a memory prior to the obtaining; determining the position of the respective radio node in the venue based at least partially on one or more respective radio measurements of one or more further respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node and on one or more further respective radio measurements gathered by the respective radio node wherein one or more respective signals are sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node, and wherein one or more pieces of respective identifier information associated with the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node are comprised by the one or more respective signals sent by the one or more respective radio nodes surrounding the respective radio node; and determining a piece of respective displacement information based on the obtained piece of respective position information and the determined position of the respective radio node, wherein the piece of respective displacement information is indicative of a displacement of the respective radio node in case the determined position of the respective radio node differs from the position of the respective radio node represented by the obtained piece of position information.
30. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
