<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/30,G06F9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERTRAN, ANA
HUANG, XIAOHONG
IYER, SUDHISH
KAWAMOTO, DAISUKE
VALDIVIA, LAUREN
VOLKOV, DMITRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326718
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATABASE SYSTEM PERFORMANCE DEGRADATION DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, embodiments of the present disclosure relate to detecting performance degradation in database systems. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A database system comprising: a processor; and memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the database system to perform operations comprising: monitoring a state of an infrastructure parameter associated with the database system; monitoring a state of a performance parameter associated with the database system; determining one or more of: the monitored state of the infrastructure parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the infrastructure parameter, and the monitored state of the performance parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the performance parameter; and generating, based on determining an anomalous monitored state for one or more of: the infrastructure parameter and the performance parameter, a user experience assessment reflecting a magnitude of the one or more anomalous monitored states on utilizing the database system by one or more users.
2. The database system of claim 1, wherein an anomalous state is determined for both the infrastructure parameter and the performance parameter.
3. The database system of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more anomalous states is based on monitoring the state of the infrastructure parameter and the state of the performance parameter over a predetermined time period.
4. The database system of claim 3, wherein generating the user experience assessment is based on a number of anomalous states determined during the predetermined time period.
5. The database system of claim 1, wherein the system monitors a respective state for each of a plurality of infrastructure parameters and each of a plurality of performance parameters.
6. The database system of claim 5, wherein the user experience assessment is generated based on determining an anomalous state for at least one of the plurality of infrastructure parameters and at least one of the plurality of performance parameters.
7. The database system of claim 6, wherein generating the user experience assessment includes weighting each of the plurality of anomalous states and determining a respective event score for each of the plurality of weighted anomalous states.
8. The database system of claim 7, wherein generating the user experience assessment includes normalizing a sum of the event scores for the plurality of weighted anomalous states.
9. The database system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions for causing the database system to perform operations comprising: identifying, based on a plurality of user experience assessments generated over a predetermined time period, a component of the database system associated with one or more of the plurality of user experience assessments.
10. The database system of claim 9, wherein the component of the database system includes one or more of: a hardware component, and a software component.
11. The database system of claim 9, wherein identifying the database system component includes increasing or decreasing the predetermined time period based on a respective magnitude of each of the plurality of user experience assessments.
12. The database system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions for causing the database system to perform operations comprising: generating and transmitting a report containing a ranked list of a plurality of user experience assessments generated over a predetermined time period.
13. The database system of claim 1, wherein generating the user experience assessment includes normalizing the user experience assessment.
14. The database system of claim 1, wherein the infrastructure parameter includes one or more of: an active session metric, a processor utilization metric, a workload concurrency metric, a memory utilization metric, and a connection pool thread starvation rate.
15. The database system of claim 1, wherein the performance parameter includes one or more of: a database trust time metric, and an asynchronous database request time metric.
16. The database system of claim 1, wherein determining the anomalous state for one or more of the infrastructure parameter and the performance parameter includes detecting an anomalous state based on an explanatory data model and a seasonal hybrid extreme studentized deviate (S-H-ESD) test.
17. The database system of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions for causing the database system to perform operations comprising: adjusting, based on the user experience assessment, a feature of the database system.
18. The database system of claim 17, wherein adjusting the feature of the database system includes one or more of: throttling a request to the database system, re-routing a request to the database system to another database system, queueing a request to the database system, and increasing or decreasing available infrastructure for the database system.
19. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a database system, cause the database system to perform operations comprising: monitoring a state of an infrastructure parameter associated with the database system; monitoring a state of a performance parameter associated with the database system; determining one or more of: the monitored state of the infrastructure parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the infrastructure parameter, and the monitored state of the performance parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the performance parameter; and generating, based on determining an anomalous monitored state for one or more of: the infrastructure parameter and the performance parameter, a user experience assessment reflecting a magnitude of the one or more anomalous monitored states on utilizing the database system by one or more users.
20. A method comprising: monitoring, by a database system, a state of an infrastructure parameter associated with the database system; monitoring, by the database system, a state of a performance parameter associated with the database system; determining, by the database system, one or more of: the monitored state of the infrastructure parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the infrastructure parameter, and the monitored state of the performance parameter is anomalous relative to a baseline state for the performance parameter; and generating, by the database system and based on determining an anomalous monitored state for one or more of: the infrastructure parameter and the performance parameter, a user experience assessment reflecting a magnitude of the one or more anomalous monitored states on utilizing the database system by one or more users.
</claims>
</document>
