<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLOR, PATRICK GEORGE
GRIFFITH, DYLAN
VANDERVELD, RIVA ASHLEY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69410782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Forecasting Demand Using Hierarchical Temporal Memory
</title>

<abstract>
In general, embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods and computer readable media to forecast demand by implementing an online demand prediction framework that includes a hierarchical temporal memory network (HTM) configured to learn temporal patterns representing sequences of states of time-series data collected from a set of one or more data sources representing demand and input to the HTM. In some embodiments, the HTM learns the temporal patterns using a Cortical Learning Algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A system, comprising one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to: retrieve a demand model configured to learn temporal patterns representing sequences of states of an input data stream representing a time series of demand data associated with offers for goods, services, or experiences purchased via an electronic instrument; simultaneously generate, using the demand model, a plurality of predictions of future states of the input data stream, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with a different unique data type and a particular time step in a future time sequence; and adjust a forecasted demand associated with the goods, services, or experiences based at least on the plurality of predictions of the future states of the input data stream.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: transmit the forecasted demand to a supply identification module associated with a merchant database.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the time series of demand data is a first time series of demand data, and wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to further cause the one or more computers to: receive a new input data stream representing second time series of demand data configured based on a combination of attributes; and generate, using the demand model, a second set of predictions of future states of the new input data stream.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the demand model comprises a plurality of layers arranged in a hierarchy, and wherein each layer in the hierarchy comprises an interconnection to a parent layer in the hierarchy.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein a bottom layer of the hierarchy receives the input data stream, wherein the bottom layer generates patterns based on the input data stream, and wherein the patterns are provided as inputs to the parent layer.
26. The system of claim 24, wherein respective layers of the plurality of layers arranged in the hierarchy store a respective model of a sequencing of input patterns received by the respective layers.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the demand model is configured to learn the temporal patterns using a cortical learning algorithm.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein the demand model is configured to modify at least one temporal pattern from the temporal patterns.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the demand model is configured to store at least one new temporal pattern from the temporal patterns.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with an error score.
31. The system of claim 21, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with an anomaly score.
32. A computer-implemented method, comprising: retrieving a demand model configured to learn temporal patterns representing sequences of states of an input data stream representing a time series of demand data associated with offers for goods, services, or experiences purchased via an electronic instrument; simultaneously generating, using the demand model, a plurality of predictions of future states of the input data stream, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with a different unique data type and a particular time step in a future time sequence; and adjusting a forecasted demand associated with the goods, services, or experiences based at least on the plurality of predictions of the future states of the input data stream.
33. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, further comprising: collecting the time series of demand data from a set of data sources comprising a plurality of unique data types, wherein a unique data type is one of bookings from deal pages, retail sales, and user clickstream data representing numbers of clicks from deal pages.
34. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, wherein the time series of demand data is a first time series of demand data, and further comprising: receiving a new input data stream representing second time series of demand data configured based on a combination of attributes; and generating, using the demand model, a second set of predictions of future states of the new input data stream.
35. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, further comprising: receiving the input data stream via a bottom layer of a plurality of layers arranged in a hierarchy associated with the demand model; generating, via the bottom layer, patterns based on the input data stream; and providing the patterns as inputs to a parent layer of the plurality of layers.
36. The computer-implemented method of claim 32, further comprising: storing a respective model of a sequencing of input patterns received by respective layers of a plurality of layers arranged in a hierarchy associated with the demand model.
37. A computer program product, stored on a computer readable medium, comprising instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to: retrieving a demand model configured to learn temporal patterns representing sequences of states of an input data stream representing a time series of demand data associated with offers for goods, services, or experiences purchased via an electronic instrument; simultaneously generate, using the demand model, a plurality of predictions of future states of the input data stream, wherein each prediction of the plurality of predictions is associated with a different unique data type and a particular time step in a future time sequence; and adjust a forecasted demand associated with the goods, services, or experiences based at least on the plurality of predictions of the future states of the input data stream.
38. The computer program product of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computers, further cause the one or more computers to: collect the time series of demand data from a set of data sources comprising a plurality of unique data types, wherein a unique data type is one of bookings from deal pages, retail sales, and user clickstream data representing numbers of clicks from deal pages.
39. The computer program product of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computers, further cause the one or more computers to: receive the input data stream via a bottom layer of a plurality of layers arranged in a hierarchy associated with the demand model; generate, via the bottom layer, patterns based on the input data stream; and provide the patterns as inputs to a parent layer of the plurality of layers.
40. The computer program product of claim 37, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computers, further cause the one or more computers to: store a respective model of a sequencing of input patterns received by respective layers of a plurality of layers arranged in a hierarchy associated with the demand model.
</claims>
</document>
