<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06T17/00,G06T7/40,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Barker, Jeremiah Timberline
</assignee>

<inventors>
Barker, Jeremiah Timberline
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745073
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AGGREGATING DATA AND STORING INFORMATION IN CONNECTION WITH A DIGITAL STICKY NOTE ASSOCIATED WITH A FILE
</title>

<abstract>
Aggregating data and storing information in connection with a digital sticky note that can be displayed in connection with a file. A method includes generating a digital sticky note to be stored in connection with a file. The method includes storing a coordinate location in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the coordinate location indicates where the digital sticky note should be displayed within the file. The method includes aggregating data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the data comprises information applicable to the coordinate location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating a digital sticky note to be stored in connection with a file; storing a coordinate location in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the coordinate location indicates where the digital sticky note should be displayed within the file; and aggregating data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the data comprises information applicable to the coordinate location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving an indication to generate the digital sticky note at the coordinate location, wherein the indication is received from one or more of: a user providing a computer-implemented instruction; or a neural network trained to recommend one or more coordinate locations within the file for creating a digital sticky note.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein aggregating the data comprises aggregating one or more types of data selected from a group comprising: an image, a video stream, a hyperlink, media available via a hyperlink, text, an inspiration board, a numerical entry, a geographic location coordinate, or a budget.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising connecting the digital sticky note to an application program interface (API) such that a user may communicate with the API by way of the digital sticky note.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an image to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note at the coordinate location; receiving an indication that a texture object displayed in the image should be associated with the coordinate location; and providing the image to a neural network trained to determine an identity of the texture object displayed in the image.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the file comprises a three-dimensional model of a space, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving from the neural network the identity of the texture object; retrieving from a database a texture file equivalent to or approximating the identity of the texture object displayed in the image; merging the texture file with a color indication to generate a color-texture placement; and applying the color-texture placement to the coordinate location within the three-dimensional model of the space.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the file comprises a three-dimensional model of a space, and wherein the method further comprises providing the three-dimensional model of the space to a user such that the user can select the coordinate location by selecting an object within the three-dimensional model.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the space comprises an architectural floorplan, and wherein the object within the three-dimensional model comprises one or more of: a wall, a door, a window, a cabinet, a countertop, a floor, a plumbing fixture, an electrical fixture, a furnishing, or a surface where a construction material and/or a design material can be affixed.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note is applicable to the object within the three-dimensional model, and wherein the method further comprises: identifying a texture object within the data stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the texture object comprises one or more of: a construction material, a design material, flooring, a plumbing fixture, an electrical fixture, or a furnishing; determining a color to be applied in connection with the texture object; retrieving from a database a texture file equivalent to or approximating the texture object; merging the texture file and the color to generate a color-texture placement; and applying the color-texture placement to the object within the three-dimensional model.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying the digital sticky note on a rendering of the file, wherein the digital sticky note comprises an icon that can be selected by a user to display the aggregated data.
11. A system comprising one or more processors configurable to execute instructions stored in non-transitory computer readable storage media, the instructions comprising: generating a digital sticky note to be stored in connection with a file; storing a coordinate location in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the coordinate location indicates where the digital sticky note should be displayed within the file; and aggregating data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the data comprises information applicable to the coordinate location.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise receiving an indication to generate the digital sticky note at the coordinate location, wherein the indication is received from one or more of: a user providing a computer-implemented instruction; or a neural network trained to recommend one or more coordinate locations within the file for creating a digital sticky note.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions are such that aggregating the data comprises aggregating one or more types of data selected from a group comprising: an image, a video stream, a hyperlink, media available via a hyperlink, text, an inspiration board, a numerical entry, a geographic location coordinate, or a budget.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise connecting the digital sticky note to an application program interface (API) such that a user may communicate with the API by way of the digital sticky note.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further comprise: receiving an image to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note at the coordinate location; receiving an indication that a texture object displayed in the image should be associated with the coordinate location; and providing the image to a neural network trained to determine an identity of the texture object displayed in the image.
16. Non-transitory computer readable storage media storing instructions for execution by one or more processors, the instructions comprising: generating a digital sticky note to be stored in connection with a file; storing a coordinate location in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the coordinate location indicates where the digital sticky note should be displayed within the file; and aggregating data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the data comprises information applicable to the coordinate location.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 16, wherein the file comprises a three-dimensional model of a space, and wherein the instructions further comprise providing the three-dimensional model of the space to a user such that the user can select the coordinate location by selecting an object within the three-dimensional model.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the space comprises an architectural floorplan, and wherein the object within the three-dimensional model comprises one or more of: a wall, a door, a window, a cabinet, a countertop, a floor, a plumbing fixture, an electrical fixture, a furnishing, or a surface where a construction material and/or a design material can be affixed.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 18, wherein the data to be stored in connection with the digital sticky note is applicable to the object within the three-dimensional model, and wherein the instructions further comprise: identifying a texture object within the data stored in connection with the digital sticky note, wherein the texture object comprises one or more of: a construction material, a design material, flooring, a plumbing fixture, an electrical fixture, or a furnishing; determining a color to be applied in connection with the texture object; retrieving from a database a texture file equivalent to or approximating the texture object; merging the texture file and the color to generate a color-texture placement; and applying the color-texture placement to the object within the three-dimensional model.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 16, wherein the instructions further comprise displaying the digital sticky note on a rendering of the file, wherein the digital sticky note comprises an icon that can be selected by a user to display the aggregated data.
</claims>
</document>
