<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/03,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SYMBOLCRAFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEWIS, PATON J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971940
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS THAT USE INCOMPLETE TRAINING DATA TO TRAIN MACHINE-LEARNING BASED SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
The current document is directed to methods and systems that effectively and efficiently employ incomplete training data to train machine-learning-based systems. Incomplete training data, as one example, may include training data with erroneous or inaccurate input-vector/label pairs. In currently disclosed methods and systems, Incomplete training data is mapped to loss classes based on addition training-data information and specific, different additional-information-dependent loss-generation methods are employed for training data of different loss classes during machine-learning-based-system training so that incomplete training data can be effectively and efficiently used.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine-learning system comprising: one or more computer systems, each including one or more processors and one or more memories; machine-learning data structures that include weights that are determined during training of the machine-learning system; a machine-learning control program that, when executed on one or more of the one or more processors, receives input data, process the input data using the machine-learning data structures to produce result data, and generate output data that is stored in one or more of the one or more memories; and a training control program that, when executed on one or more of the one or more processors, iteratively selects a next portion of an augmented training dataset that includes input/label pairs, maps the selected portion of the augmented training dataset to loss classes, and for each loss class, inputs the input/label pairs of the loss class to the machine-learning control program, applies a loss-class-specific method to output data generated by the machine-learning control program and to the labels of the input/label pairs of the loss class to generate a loss, and back-propagates the loss through the machine-learning data structures to adjust the included weights.
2. The machine-learning system of claim 1 wherein machine-learning data structures include nodes that are interconnected to form a graph.
3. The machine-learning system of claim 2 wherein each node receives input values from one or more input-value sources; computes an aggregate input value using the input values and weights corresponding to the input-value sources; and generates an output value that the node outputs to an output-value sink.
4. The machine-learning system of claim 3 wherein input-value sources include one or more of other machine-learning-data-structure nodes, and the machine-learning control program; and wherein the output-value sinks include other machine-learning-data-structure nodes, and the machine-learning control program.
5. The machine-learning system of claim 1 wherein the next portion of the augmented training dataset includes one or more input/label pairs; and wherein each of the one or more input/label pairs may be associated with additional information.
6. The machine-learning system of claim 5 wherein each loss class corresponds to a subset of the additional information associated with input/label pairs; and wherein each subset of the additional information corresponding to loss classes is unique.
7. The machine-learning system of claim 6 wherein the training control program applies a loss-class-specific method to output data generated by the machine-learning control program and to the labels of the input/label pairs of the loss class to generate a loss by: generating a metric value from the labels of the input/label pairs of the next portion of the training dataset and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program; and applying the loss-class-specific method to the metric value, the loss-class-specific method considering additional information corresponding to the loss class to generate the loss.
8. The machine-learning system of claim 7 wherein the metric is one of: a distance measure reflective of a distance between a label of an input/label pair and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the input of the input/label pair; and an aggregate distance measure reflective of multiple distances between labels of input/label pairs and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the inputs of the input/label pairs.
9. The machine-learning system of claim 8 wherein the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the input of an input/label pair is a vector of values, wherein the label of the input/label pair is a vector of values, wherein the output-data and label vectors have a common dimension d; and wherein the distance of which the distance measure is reflective is the distance, in a space of the dimension d, between a point corresponding to the output-data vector and one of a point corresponding to the label vector or a volume corresponding to the label vector.
10. The machine-learning system of claim 9 wherein the distance measure is proportional to one of: the distance; the square of the distance; and the distance raised to a real-number power.
11. A method that trains a machine-learning component of a system that includes one or more computer systems, each including one or more processors and one or more memories, machine-learning data structures that include weights that are determined during training of the machine-learning system, and a machine-learning control program that, when executed on one or more of the one or more processors, receives input data, process the input data using the machine-learning data structures to produce result data, and generate output data that is stored in one or more of the one or more memories, the method comprising: receiving a training dataset comprising input/label pairs; receiving additional information for one or more of the input/label pairs; augmenting the training dataset by associating additional information specific to one or more input/label pairs to the one or more input/label pairs; and iteratively selecting a next portion of the augmented training dataset, mapping the selected portion of the augmented training dataset to loss classes, and for each loss class, inputting the input/label pairs of the loss class to the machine-learning control program, applying a loss-class-specific method to output data generated by the machine-learning control program and to the labels of the input/label pairs of the loss class to generate a loss, and back-propagating the loss through the machine-learning data structures to adjust the included weights.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein machine-learning data structures include nodes that are interconnected to form a graph; and wherein each node receives input values from one or more input-value sources; computes an aggregate input value using the input values and weights corresponding to the input-value sources; and generates an output value that the node outputs to an output-value sink.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein input-value sources include one or more of other machine-learning-data-structure nodes, and the machine-learning control program; and wherein the output-value sinks include other machine-learning-data-structure nodes, and the machine-learning control program.
14. The method of claim 11 wherein the next portion of the augmented training dataset includes one or more input/label pairs; and wherein each of the one or more input/label pairs may be associated with additional information.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein each loss class corresponds to a subset of the additional information associated with input/label pairs; and wherein each subset of the additional information corresponding to loss classes is unique.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the training control program applies a loss-class-specific method to output data generated by the machine-learning control program and to the labels of the input/label pairs of the loss class to generate a loss by: generating a metric value from the labels of the input/label pairs of the next portion of the training dataset and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program; and applying the loss-class-specific method to the metric value, the loss-class-specific method considering additional information corresponding to the loss class to generate the loss.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein the metric is one of: a distance measure reflective of a distance between a label of an input/label pair and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the input of the input/label pair; and an aggregate distance measure reflective of multiple distances between labels of input/label pairs and the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the inputs of the input/label pairs.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the output data generated by the machine-learning control program by processing the input of an input/label pair is a vector of values, wherein the label of the input/label pair is a vector of values, wherein the output-data and label vectors have a common dimension d; and wherein the distance of which the distance measure is reflective is the distance, in a space of the dimension d, between a point corresponding to the output-data vector and one of a point corresponding to the label vector or a volume corresponding to the label vector.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the distance measure is proportional to one of: the distance; the square of the distance; and the distance raised to a real-number power.
20. A physical data-storage device encoded with computer instructions that, when executed on one or more processors of one or more computer systems that comprise a system that includes a machine-learning component, machine-learning data structures that include weights that are determined during training of the machine-learning system, and a machine-learning control program that receives input data, processes the input data using the machine-learning data structures to produce result data, and generates output data that is stored in one or more memories, controls the one or more computer systems to: receive a training dataset comprising input/label pairs; receive additional information for one or more of the input/label pairs; augment the training dataset by associating additional information specific to one or more input/label pairs to the one or more input/label pairs; and iteratively select a next portion of the augmented training dataset, mapping the selected portion of the augmented training dataset into loss classes, and for each loss class, input the input/label pairs of the loss class to the machine-learning control program, apply a loss-class-specific method to output data generated by the machine-learning control program and to the labels of the input/label pairs of the loss class to generate a loss, and back-propagate the loss through the machine-learning data structures to adjust the included weights.
</claims>
</document>
