<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01L3/00,C12N15/10,C12N15/70,C12N7/00,C12Q1/6874
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
Shepherd, Tyson Robert
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044337
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPOSITIONS AND METHODS FOR MOLECULAR MEMORY STORAGE AND RETRIEVAL
</title>

<abstract>
Compositions and methods for the storage, organization, access, and retrieval of information encoded by sequence controlled polymers such as data storage nucleic acids are provided. In some embodiments, organization, storage, and/or selective retrieval of the data is facilitated by hybridization of barcode sequence of the sequence controlled polymer to the reverse complementary sequence of an oligonucleotide. The plurality of oligonucleotides can be arrayed using a known organization scheme, and selectively capture and localize the corresponding sequence controlled polymer. In some embodiments, the compositions and methods utilize recombinant bacteriophage, typically featuring a minigenome having a bacteriophage origin of replication and packaging signal separated from a data storage sequence by barcodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A nucleic acid comprising nucleic acid sequences encoding an insert, two barcodes, a bacteriophage origin of replication, and a bacteriophage packaging signal.
2. The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid is circular.
3. The nucleic acid of claim 2, wherein the insert is separated from the sequences encoding the bacteriophage origin of replication, bacteriophage packaging signal, selectable marker, or a combination thereof by the barcodes.
4. The nucleic acid of claim 3 further comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a selectable marker.
5. The nucleic acid of claim 4, wherein the nucleic acid does not encode a bacterial origin of replication.
6. The nucleic acid of claim 5, wherein the nucleic acid is single stranded.
7. The nucleic acid of claim 6, wherein the nucleic acid further comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding between about 1 and 4 bacteriophage capsid proteins, or fusions proteins thereof.
8. The nucleic acid of claim 6, wherein the insert encodes data.
9. The nucleic acid of claim 8, wherein the insert does not encode a gene or other open reading frame.
10. The nucleic acid of claim 9, wherein the data is digital data, optionally bitstream data.
11. The nucleic acid of claim 10, wherein the bacteriophage origin of replication is f1, the selectable marker is an antibiotic resistant gene, the nucleic acid sequence encoding data is between about 50 and 50,000 nucleotides in length, and wherein the nucleic acid optionally further comprises a nucleic acid sequence encoding M13 capsid protein(s) or fusion protein(s) thereof.
12. The nucleic acid of claim 6, wherein the insert encodes an expression construct.
13. The nucleic acid of claim 12, wherein the expression construct encodes an antigen binding protein, optionally wherein the antigen binding protein is an antibody or fragment or fusion protein thereof.
14. The nucleic acid of claim 1, wherein the barcode sequences are the same sequence.
15. The nucleic acid of claim 1, further comprising one or more bacteriophage capsid proteins associated therewith, optionally wherein the bacteriophage capsid proteins are g7 and g9 from M13, wherein the nucleic acid is packaged into a synthetic bacteriophage head formed from the bacteriophage capsid proteins.
16. A method of making the nucleic acid of claim 1, comprising incubating a single stranded vector template comprising the reverse complementary sequence to the two barcodes, the bacteriophage origin of replication, and the bacteriophage packaging signal with a single stranded precursor nucleic acid comprising the nucleic acid sequences encoding the insert and the two barcodes under conditions that allow the vector template and hybridize at the barcodes sequences, and polymerase to extend the single stranded precursor nucleic acid over the vector template to form the nucleic acid.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising ligating the nucleic acid to form a circular nucleic acid.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the 3′ end of the vector template is blocked to prevent extension of the vector template by the polymerase and leading to a circular single stranded nucleic acid.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the vector template is linked to a surface.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the circular data storage nucleic acid is digested with a nick-specific exonuclease(s) to digest residual vector template and non-closed circular single stranded nucleic acids, optionally wherein the exonuclease(s) is Exonuclease III, Lambda exonuclease, or a combination thereof.
21. The method of claim 17, further comprising incubating the circular single stranded nucleic acid with one or more bacteriophage capsid proteins, optionally wherein the bacteriophage capsid proteins are g7 and g9 from M13, wherein the nucleic acid is packaged into a synthetic bacteriophage head formed from the bacteriophage capsid proteins.
22. A method of introducing a nucleic acid into cells, comprising incubating the bacteriophage capsid protein-associated nucleic acid of claim 15 with F-pili E. coli.
23. A method of storing a data storage nucleic acid comprising selectively linking a bacteriophage to a desired physical location on a surface, wherein the bacteriophage comprises a genome comprising a nucleic acid encoding data, and capsid protein linked to a barcode sequence; wherein the surface comprises the reverse complement of the barcode at the physical location; and wherein the bacteriophage and the surface are brought into contact under conditions that the allow the phage's barcode to hybridize to the reverse complement on the surface.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the surface is a bead, a chip, a well, glass slide, or a plate.
25. A method of retrieving data from a library of different bacteriophage comprising contacting the library with E. coli, wherein the E. coli expresses a receptor that can bind to a ligand linked or fused to a bacteriophage, wherein the library comprises bacteriophage having different ligands linked or fused thereto, and wherein amplification of the E. coli leads to selective amplification of the bacteriophage linked or fused to the ligand that can bind thereto.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the ligand is an antigen binding protein, and the receptor is the antigen that binds thereto, or the receptor is an antigen binding protein and the ligand is the antigen that binds thereto.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising isolating and sequencing the genome of the selectively amplified bacteriophage.
28. A surface or object comprising a plurality of oligonucleotides of between about 20 and 100 nucleotides linked thereto, wherein each oligonucleotide is hybridized by complementary base pairing to a data storage nucleic acid comprising a nucleic acid sequence between about 50 and 100,000 nucleotides encoding data, wherein the surface or object is a chip further comprising a nanopore adjacent to each oligonucleotide, or a multiwell plate, each well comprising a different oligonucleotide and reagents suitable for sequencing the data storage nucleic acid.
29. A system comprising the surface or object of claim 28 and a nucleic acid sequencing platform, wherein each data storage nucleic acid can be selectively sequenced by providing an electrical stimulation that activates sequencing at the location of the data storage nucleic acid.
30. A method of panning a library of different bacteriophage for a target bacteriophage comprising contacting the library with E. coli, wherein different bacteriophage in the library comprises a genome comprising a nucleic acid encoding a different ligand fused to a bacteriophage capsid protein, and displays the ligand as part of its capsid head, wherein the E. coli expresses a receptor that can bind to the ligand encoded by at least one target bacteriophage genome in the library, and wherein amplification of the E. coli leads to selective amplification of the bacteriophage displaying the ligand that can bind thereto.
</claims>
</document>
