<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/04,G05B17/02,G06Q10/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYUN SIK
MAENG, JWA YOUNG
NA, SANG GUN
PARK, JEE HUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70681451
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR OPTIMIZING COMBUSTION OF BOILER
</title>

<abstract>
A system for controlling a boiler apparatus in a power plant to combust under optimized conditions, and a method for optimizing combustion of the boiler apparatus using the same are provided. The boiler control system may include a task manager configured to collect information on a current operating state of a boiler and determine whether to perform a combustion optimization operation for the boiler, a pre-processor configured to preprocess data collected from the boiler and supply the pre-processed data, a modeler configured to create a boiler combustion model on the basis of the pre-processed data received from the pre-processor, an optimizer configured to receive the boiler combustion model from the modeler and perform the combustion optimization operation for the boiler using the boiler combustion model to calculate an optimum control value, wherein the pre-processed data is supplied to the modeler and the optimizer by the pre-processor, and an output controller configured to receive the optimum control value from the optimizer and control an operation of the boiler by reflecting the optimum control value to a boiler control logic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A boiler control system comprising: a task manager configured to collect information on a current operating state of a boiler and determine whether to perform a combustion optimization operation for the boiler; a pre-processor configured to preprocess data collected from the boiler and supply the pre-processed data; a modeler configured to create a boiler combustion model on the basis of the pre-processed data received from the pre-processor; an optimizer configured to receive the boiler combustion model from the modeler and perform the combustion optimization operation for the boiler using the boiler combustion model to calculate an optimum control value, wherein the pre-processed data is supplied to the modeler and the optimizer by the pre-processor; and an output controller configured to receive the optimum control value from the optimizer and control an operation of the boiler by reflecting the optimum control value to a boiler control logic.
2. The boiler control system according to claim 1, wherein the optimizer calculates the optimum control value by applying the pre-processed data received from the pre-processor to the boiler combustion model repeatedly simulating the boiler combustion model, and applying the simulated result to a combustion optimization algorithm.
3. The boiler control system according to claim 2, wherein the combustion optimization algorithm is one of a Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) algorithm, a Degree of Freedom (DOF) algorithm, a Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm, an Adaptive algorithm, a Fuzzy algorithm, an H-infinity algorithm, a Linear Parameter Varying (LPV) Model-based algorithm, and a Genetic Algorithm (GA).
4. The boiler control system according to claim 2, wherein the optimizer calculates optimum control values for a plurality of control objects in the boiler such that the plurality of control objects are divided into groups, each including a specified number of control objects, and the optimum control values are calculated for each group.
5. The boiler control system according to claim 4, wherein the control objects are divided into groups on the basis of a large scale range, a medium scale range, and a small scale range, and the optimum control values are calculated for the control objects.
6. The boiler control system according to claim 1, wherein the optimizer applies a combustion optimization algorithm depending on a purpose received from a user.
7. The boiler control system according to claim 6, wherein the optimizer receives the purpose selected from the user, the purpose including a cost optimization considering a cost as a top priority, an emission optimization considering an emission reduction as a top priority, and an equipment protection optimization considering an equipment protection as a top priority.
8. The boiler control system according to claim 1, wherein before performing the combustion optimization operation for the boiler, the optimizer selects two or more algorithms capable of performing the combustion optimization operation from a plurality of algorithms, and selects one of the selected algorithms as a combustion optimization algorithm for performing the combustion optimization operation.
9. The boiler control system according to claim 8, wherein the optimizer performs a performance simulation on the selected algorithms, and selects an algorithm having the highest efficiency as a result of the performance simulation as the combustion optimization algorithm.
10. A method of controlling a boiler, the method comprising: collecting information on a current operating state of the boiler and determining whether to perform a combustion optimization operation for the boiler; pre-processing data collected from the boiler; creating a boiler combustion model on the basis of the pre-processed data; performing the combustion optimization operation using the boiler combustion model to calculate an optimum control value; and controlling an operation of the boiler by reflecting the optimum control value to a boiler control logic.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the calculating the optimum control value comprises applying the pre-processed data received from a pre-processor to the boiler combustion model repeatedly simulating the boiler combustion model, and applying the simulated result to a combustion optimization algorithm.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the combustion optimization algorithm is one of a Proportional-Integral-Derivative (PID) algorithm, a Degree of Freedom (DOF) algorithm, a Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm, an Adaptive algorithm, a Fuzzy algorithm, an H-infinity algorithm, a Linear Parameter Varying (LPV) Model-based algorithm, and a Genetic Algorithm (GA).
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein the calculating the optimum control value comprises calculating the optimum control values for a plurality of control objects in the boiler such that the control objects are divided into groups, each including a specified number of control objects, and the optimum control values are calculated for each group.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein in the calculating the optimum control values, the control objects are divided into groups on the basis of a large scale range, a medium scale range, and a small scale range, and the optimum control values are calculated for the control objects.
15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the calculating the optimum control values comprises receiving an optimization purpose from a user, and applying a combustion optimization algorithm depending on the received optimization purpose.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein the optimization purpose includes a cost optimization considering a cost as a top priority, an emission optimization considering an emission reduction as a top priority, and an equipment protection optimization considering an equipment protection as a top priority.
17. The method according to claim 10, further comprising, before performing the combustion optimization operation for the boiler, selecting two or more algorithms capable of performing the combustion optimization operation from a plurality of algorithms, and selecting one of the selected algorithms as a combustion optimization algorithm for performing the combustion optimization operation.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the selecting the combustion optimization algorithm comprises performing a performance simulation on the selected algorithms, and selecting an algorithm having the highest efficiency as a result of the performance simulation as the combustion optimization algorithm.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions of executing a method of controlling a boiler, the method comprising: collecting information on a current operating state of the boiler and determining whether to perform a combustion optimization operation for the boiler; pre-processing data collected from the boiler; creating a boiler combustion model on the basis of the pre-processed data; performing the combustion optimization operation using the boiler combustion model to calculate an optimum control value; and controlling an operation of the boiler by reflecting the optimum control value to a boiler control logic.
</claims>
</document>
