<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YLITALO, CAROLINE M.
BOHANNON, KANDYCE M.
Donoghue, Claire R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67768466
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONAL PROTECTION EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a system includes a display and a computing device coupled to the display. The computing device includes a memory and one or more processors coupled to the memory, and the memory includes instructions that when executed by the one or more processors identify, based on at least an identity of a worker, one or more articles of PPE for the worker to use and display an avatar of the worker, where displaying the avatar includes equipping the avatar with the one or more articles of PPE.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a display; and a computing device coupled to the display, wherein the computing device comprises a memory and one or more processors coupled to the memory, wherein the memory comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: identify, based on at least an identity of a worker, one or more articles of personal protection equipment (PPE) for the worker to use; and display an avatar of the worker, wherein displaying the avatar includes equipping the avatar with the one or more articles of PPE.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more articles of PPE for the worker to use comprises: identifying, based on the identity of the worker, a job function of the worker; and selecting, based on at least the job function of the worker, the one or more articles of PPE to be used by the worker from one or more default articles of PPE required for the job function of the worker.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more articles of PPE for the worker to use comprises selecting, based on the identity of the worker, one or more articles of PPE that the worker is trained to use.
4. The system of any of claim 1, wherein displaying the avatar of the worker comprises: at least one of accessing a previously stored avatar of the worker, modifying a previously stored avatar of the worker, or rendering, based on an image of the worker, a new avatar.
5. The system of any of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an image capture device, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: periodically or continuously capture images of the worker, wherein the images include a first image and a second image, wherein the first image was captured at an earlier time than the second image; compare the first image to the second image; determine, based on the comparison, a movement of the worker; display a moving avatar equipped with the one or more articles of PPE, wherein the moving avatar is configured to mirror the determined movement.
6. The system of any of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises an image capture device, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: capture an image of the worker; analyze the image of the worker to identify one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; and compare the articles of PPE identified for the worker to use to the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: determine whether each of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are approximately the same size as corresponding articles of PPE of the one or more articles of PPE identified for the worker to use; and if one or more of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are not approximately the same size as corresponding articles of PPE of the one or more articles of PPE identified for the worker to use, present an alert indicating that the article of PPE worn by the worker in the image is different in size from the corresponding article of PPE identified for the worker to use.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: determine whether the article of PPE worn by the worker in the image is approximately the same as a corresponding article of PPE identified for the worker to use; determine whether the worker is trained to use any of the articles of PPE that are not the same as corresponding articles of PPE identified for the worker to use; and if the article of PPE worn by the worker in the image is not approximately the same as a corresponding article of PPE identified for the worker to use and if the worker is not trained to use any of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image that are not the same as corresponding articles of PPE identified for the worker to use, present an alert indicating that the worker is not trained to use the article of PPE worn by the worker in the image.
9. The system of any of claim 6, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: determine whether any of the articles of PPE identified for the worker to use are missing from the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; and present an alert identifying the missing articles of PPE.
10. The system of any of claim 6, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: calculate a confidence level related to the identification accuracy for one or more of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; compare the confidence level to a threshold level of confidence; and present an alert when the confidence level is less than the threshold level of confidence.
11. The system of any of claim 6, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors: determine one or more previously worn articles of PPE, wherein the one or more previously worn articles of PPE comprise at least one of an article of PPE previously worn by the worker, an article of PPE previously worn at a work environment, or an article of PPE previously worn for a job function, wherein the work environment comprises a work environment at which the worker will be working, and wherein the job function comprises a job function of the worker; compare the one or more previously worn articles of PPE to the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; determine whether at least one of: one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are different from a corresponding previously worn article of PPE, or a previously worn article of PPE is not present in the one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; and if one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are different from a corresponding previously worn article of PPE, present an alert identifying how the articles of PPE are different; or if a previously worn article of PPE is not present in the one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image, present an alert identifying the previously worn article of PPE that is not present in the one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises one or more input devices, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors display an indication of a received confirmation of at least one article of PPE identified for the worker to use, wherein the received confirmation was input by the worker using the one or more input devices.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further comprises instructions that when executed by the one or more processors identify the worker based on at least one of an identification number, a username, biometric information, photo recognition information, or voice recognition information of the worker.
14. A method comprising: identifying, based on at least an identity of a worker, one or more articles of personal protection equipment (PPE) for the worker to use; and displaying an avatar of the worker, wherein displaying the avatar includes equipping the avatar with the one or more articles of PPE.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the one or more articles of PPE for the worker to use comprises: identifying, based on the identity of the worker, a job function of the worker; and selecting, based on at least the job function of the worker, the one or more articles of PPE to be used by the worker from one or more default articles of PPE required for the job function of the worker.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein identifying the one or more articles of PPE for the worker to use comprises selecting, based on the identity of the worker, one or more articles of PPE that the worker is trained to use.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein displaying the avatar of the worker comprises: at least one of accessing a previously stored avatar of the worker, modifying a previously stored avatar of the worker, or rendering, based on an image of the worker, a new avatar.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: periodically or continuously capturing images of the worker, wherein the images include a first image and a second image, wherein the first image was captured at an earlier time than the second image; comparing the first image to the second image; determining, based on the comparison, a movement of the worker; displaying a moving avatar equipped with the one or more articles of PPE, wherein the moving avatar is configured to mirror the determined movement.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: capturing an image of the worker; analyzing the image of the worker to identify one or more articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image; and comparing the articles of PPE identified for the worker to use to the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: determining whether each of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are approximately the same size as corresponding articles of PPE of the one or more articles of PPE identified for the worker to use; and if one or more of the articles of PPE worn by the worker in the image are not approximately the same size as corresponding articles of PPE of the one or more articles of PPE identified for the worker to use, presenting an alert indicating that the article of PPE worn by the worker in the image is different in size from the corresponding article of PPE identified for the worker to use.
21. 21-42. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
