<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/04,H04W72/10,H04W8/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KARIMLI, YASMIN
NIMBAVIKAR, GUNJAN
GUPTA, PUJA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179602
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device-based Wireless Transmission Regulation for Citizens Broadband Radio Service
</title>

<abstract>
Wireless transmission regulation for a frequency band associated with Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) is described. In an example, a sensor associated with a device, which is configured to operate in the frequency band, can scan at least a portion of the frequency band to generate sensor data indicating at least energy present in the portion of the frequency band. The device can determine, based at least in part on analyzing the sensor data, a presence of another device using the frequency band. The other device can be a priority user having priority access over the device. Based at least in part on determining the presence of the other device, the device can adjust a device radio frequency (RF) transmission power for transmitting communication(s) within the frequency band.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a sensor configured to operate in a frequency band associated with Citizens Broadband Radio Service; one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: scan, using the sensor, at least a portion of the frequency band to generate sensor data indicating at least energy present in the portion of the frequency band; determine, based at least in part on analyzing the sensor data, a presence of another device using the frequency band, the other device being a priority user having priority access over the device; and adjust, based at least in part on determining the presence of the other device, a device radio frequency (RF) transmission power for transmitting one or more communications within the frequency band.
2. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to determine, based on the sensor data, a source of the energy present in the frequency band.
3. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to determine, based on the sensor data, an identity of an entity associated with the device utilizing the energy present in the frequency band.
4. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to determine, based on the sensor data, a noise level associated with the frequency band.
5. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to determine, based on the sensor data, a power level associated with a battery of the device.
6. The device as claim 5 recites, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors further to determine a temporal frequency for scanning the frequency band based on the power level associated with the battery of the device.
7. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors further to: determine at least one of a time, a day, or a geolocation associated with the device; and determine a temporal frequency for scanning at least the portion of the frequency band based at least in part on at least one of the time, the day, or the geolocation associated with the device.
8. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the frequency band is associated with a plurality of channels, and the instructions cause the one or more processors further to: determine, based at least in part on historical data, a likelihood that one or more channels of the plurality of channels are occupied by one or more priority users; and determine that the likelihood is greater than a threshold, wherein the portion of the frequency band excludes the one or more channels.
9. The device as claim 1 recites, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors further to: send an indication of the device RF transmission power to a base station; and receive, from the base station, an instruction associated with a channel within the frequency band for transmitting the one or more communications.
10. A computer-implemented method comprising: scanning, using a sensor associated with a device, at least a portion of a frequency band associated with Citizens Broadband Radio Service to generate sensor data indicating at least energy present in the portion of the frequency band, the sensor being configured to operate in the frequency band; determining, based at least in part on analyzing the sensor data, a presence of another device utilizing the frequency band, the other device being a priority user having priority access over the device; and adjusting, based at least in part on determining the presence of the other device, a device radio frequency (RF) transmission power for transmitting one or more communications within the frequency band.
11. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, wherein scanning at least the portion of the frequency band comprises: scanning a first channel of a plurality of channels associated with the frequency band at a first time and scanning a second channel of the plurality of channels at a second time after the first time; or scanning each channel of the plurality of channels associated with the frequency band at a substantially same time.
12. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, a power level associated with a battery of the device; and determining a temporal frequency for scanning the frequency band based on the power level associated with the battery of the device.
13. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, further comprising: determining at least one of a time, a day, or a geolocation associated with the device; and determining a temporal frequency for scanning at least the portion of the frequency band based at least in part on at least one of the time, the day, or the geolocation associated with the device.
14. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, wherein the frequency band is associated with a plurality of channels, and the method further comprises: determining, based at least in part on historical data, a likelihood that one or more channels of the plurality of channels are occupied by one or more priority users; and determining that the likelihood is greater than a threshold wherein the portion of the frequency band excludes the one or more channels.
15. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, further comprising: sending an indication of the device RF transmission power to a base station; and receiving, from the base station, an instruction associated with a channel within the frequency band for transmitting the one or more communications.
16. The computer-implemented method as claim 10 recites, further comprising: sending a first indication of the device RF transmission power to a base station; determining, after a lapse of a predetermined period of time, that an instruction indicating a channel within the frequency band for transmitting the one or more communications has not been received from the base station; re-adjusting the device RF transmission power to a new device RF transmission power for transmitting the one or more communications within the frequency band; and sending a second indication of the new device RF transmission power to the base station.
17. One or more computer-readable media associated with a device, the one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: send, to a sensor associated with the device, an instruction to scan at least a portion of a frequency band associated with Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) to generate sensor data indicating at least energy present in the portion of the frequency band, the sensor being configured to operate in the frequency band; determine, based at least in part on analyzing the sensor data, a presence of another device utilizing the frequency band, the other device being a priority user having priority access over the device; and adjust, based at least in part on determining the presence of the other device, a device radio frequency (RF) transmission power for transmitting one or more communications within the frequency band.
18. The one or more computer-readable media as claim 17 recites, wherein the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to determine a timing for sending the instruction based at least in part on a power level associated with a battery of the device, a time, a day, or a geolocation associated with the device.
19. The one or more computer-readable media as claim 17 recites, wherein the frequency band is associated with a plurality of channels, and the instructions cause the one or more processors further to: determine, based at least in part on historical data, a likelihood that one or more channels of the plurality of channels are occupied by one or more priority users; and determine that the likelihood is greater than a threshold, wherein the portion of the frequency band excludes the one or more channels.
20. The one or more computer-readable media as claim 17 recites, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors further to: send an indication of the device RF transmission power to a base station; and receive, from the base station, an instruction associated with a channel within the frequency band for transmitting the one or more communications.
</claims>
</document>
