<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/335,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTUM CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kube, Dale Elliot
Coonrod, Marcia Renee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-MODEL APPROACH FOR JOB RECOMMENDATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
A job recommendation system automatically generates job recommendations for users based at least in part on automatically generated and/or automatically maintained employee data stored within employee profiles and employer structure data. The employer structure data is utilized to generate one or more predictive models for generating scores predictive of job transitions between jobcodes and/or departments. Moreover, the employee data is compared against job opening data to identify similarity scores therebetween. The one or more predictive models and the one or more similarities scores are combined into a job recommendation algorithm utilized to generate one or more job recommendations for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A job recommendation platform for automatically generating one or more job recommendations from one or more job openings, the job recommendation platform comprising: one or more memory storage areas; and one or more processors collectively configured to: receive, from one or more automatically maintained data stores, employee data for a plurality of employees, the employee data comprising a plurality of employee profiles each identifying employee job characteristics for each of the plurality of employees; receive, from the one or more automatically maintained data stores, employer structure data for at least one employer, the employer structure data comprising jobcode data for a plurality of jobcodes existing within the employer, and department data for a plurality of departments existing within the employer; receive job opening data indicative of at least one job opening within the employer; execute, based at least in part on the employer structure data and the employee data, at least one of: (1) a jobcode model identifying a likelihood of one or more jobcode-to-jobcode transitions or (2) a department model identifying a likelihood of one or more department-to-department transitions; generate, based at least in part on the job opening data and the employee profiles, fit data indicative of similarities between at least one employee profile and at least one job opening; execute a job recommendation algorithm comprising: (1) the at least one of the jobcode model or the department model and (2) the fit data; and generate a job recommendations interface comprising one or more job recommendations generated by the job recommendation algorithm for the at least one employee profile.
2. The job recommendation platform of claim 1, wherein the processors are collectively configured to execute the jobcode model and the department model, and wherein the job recommendation model comprises the jobcode model and the department model.
3. The job recommendation platform of claim 2, wherein the jobcode model and the department model each comprise one or more random forest models.
4. The job recommendation platform of claim 1, wherein each of the employee profiles comprise prior probability data indicative of previous jobcode-to-jobcode transitions and prior department-to-department transitions of a corresponding employee.
5. The job recommendation platform of claim 2, wherein the jobcode model is configured to generate jobcode scores for movement between each of a plurality of jobcodes.
6. The job recommendation platform of claim 5, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to store, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one jobcode having a highest score for a previous jobcode identified within an employee profile.
7. The job recommendation platform of claim 2, wherein the department model is configured to generate department scores for movement between each of a plurality of departments.
8. The job recommendation platform of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to store, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one department having a highest score for a previous department identified within an employee profile.
9. A computer-implemented method for automatically generating job recommendations for one or more users, the method comprising: receiving, via one or more processors and from one or more automatically maintained data stores, employee data for a plurality of employees, the employee data comprising a plurality of employee profiles each identifying employee job characteristics for each of the plurality of employees; receiving, via the one or more processors and from the one or more automatically maintained data stores, employer structure data for at least one employer, the employer structure data comprising jobcode data for a plurality of jobcodes existing within the employer, and department data for a plurality of departments existing within the employer; receiving, via the one or more processors, job opening data indicative of at least one job opening within the employer; executing, via the one or more processors and based at least in part on the employer structure data and the employee data, at least one of: (1) a jobcode model identifying a likelihood of one or more jobcode-to-jobcode transitions or (2) a department model identifying a likelihood of one or more department-to-department transitions; generating, via the one or more processors and based at least in part on the j ob opening data and the employee profiles, fit data indicative of similarities between at least one employee profile and at least one job opening; executing, via the one or more processors, a job recommendation algorithm comprising: (1) the at least one of the jobcode model or the department model and (2) the fit data; and generating, via the one or more processors, a job recommendations interface comprising one or more job recommendations generated by the job recommendation algorithm for the at least one employee profile.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising executing the jobcode model and the department model, and wherein the job recommendation model comprises the jobcode model and the department model.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the jobcode model and the department model each comprise random forest models.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein each of the employee profiles comprise prior probability data indicative of previous jobcode-to-jobcode transitions and prior department-to-department transitions of a corresponding employee.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the jobcode model is configured to generate jobcode scores for movement between each of a plurality of jobcodes.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising storing, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one jobcode having a highest score for a previous jobcode identified within an employee profile.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the department model is configured to generate department scores for movement between each of a plurality of departments.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising storing, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one department having a highest score for a previous department identified within an employee profile.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable portions therein, the executable portions configured to, when executed by one or more processors, cause the processors to: receive, from one or more automatically maintained data stores, employee data for a plurality of employees, the employee data comprising a plurality of employee profiles each identifying employee job characteristics for each of the plurality of employees; receive, from the one or more automatically maintained data stores, employer structure data for at least one employer, the employer structure data comprising jobcode data for a plurality of jobcodes existing within the employer, and department data for a plurality of departments existing within the employer; receive job opening data indicative of at least one job opening within the employer; execute, based at least in part on the employer structure data and the employee data, at least one of: (1) a jobcode model identifying a likelihood of one or more jobcode-to-jobcode transitions or (2) a department model identifying a likelihood of one or more department-to-department transitions; generate, based at least in part on the job opening data and the employee profiles, fit data indicative of similarities between at least one employee profile and at least one job opening; execute a job recommendation algorithm comprising: (1) the at least one of the jobcode model or the department model and (2) the fit data; and generate a job recommendations interface comprising one or more job recommendations generated by the job recommendation algorithm for the at least one employee profile.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the executable portions are further configured to cause one or more processors to execute the jobcode model and the department model, and wherein the job recommendation model comprises the jobcode model and the department model.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the jobcode model and the department model each comprise random forest models.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein each of the employee profiles comprise prior probability data indicative of previous jobcode-to-jobcode transitions and prior department-to-department transitions of a corresponding employee.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the jobcode model is configured to generate jobcode scores for movement between each of a plurality of jobcodes.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the executable portions are further configured to cause one or more processors to store, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one jobcode having a highest score for a previous jobcode identified within an employee profile.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the department model is configured to generate department scores for movement between each of a plurality of departments.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the executable portions are further configured to cause one or more processors to store, within the one or more memory storage areas, at least one department having a highest score for a previous department identified within an employee profile.
</claims>
</document>
