<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N23/04,G01N23/083,G01N23/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SVXR
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADLER, DAVID LEWIS
BABIAN, FREDDIE ERICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Defects Detection and Classification Using X-rays
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, an automated high-speed X-ray inspection system may identify reference objects for an object of interest to be inspected. Each reference object may have a same type and components as the object of interest. The system may generate a reference model for the object of interest based on X-ray images of the reference objects. The system may determine whether the object of interest is associated with one or more defects by comparing an X-ray image of the object of interest to the reference model. The defects may be characterized by one or more pre-determined defect models and may be classified into respective defect categories based on the pre-determined defect models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by an automated high-speed X-ray inspection system: identifying one or more reference objects for an object of interest to be inspected, wherein each reference object has a same type and components as the object of interest; generating a reference model for the object of interest based on one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects; and determining whether the object of interest is associated with one or more defects by comparing a first X-ray image of the object of interest to the reference model, wherein the one or more defects are characterized by one or more pre-determined defect models, and wherein, when the object of interest is associated with the one or more defects, the one or more defects are classified into respective defect categories based on the one or more pre-determined defect models.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference model and the one or more X-ray images are associated with a first background noise pattern, and wherein the first X-ray image of the object of interest is associated with a second background noise pattern that is substantially similar to the first background noise pattern.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first X-ray image of the object of interest is captured from a first angle, further comprising: capturing a second X-ray image of the object of interest from a second angle different from the first angle, wherein the one or more defects are classified into the respective defect categories based at least on the first X-ray image and the second X-ray image of the object of interest.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending location information associated with the one or more defects to a second X-ray inspection tool, wherein the second X-ray inspection tool characterizes the one or more defects based on cross section X-ray images of the object of interest; and receiving characterization information of the one or more defects from the second X-ray inspection tool.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the characterization information of the one or more defects received from the second X-ray inspection tool comprises defect type classification information determined by the second X-ray inspection tool.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining a plurality of labeled samples based on the characterization information received from the second X-ray inspection tool; and training one or more machine-learning models based on the plurality of labeled samples.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: classifying, using a first machine-learning model, the object of interest into an inlier category or an outlier category, wherein the first machine-learning model is trained based on a plurality of non-labeled samples during an unsupervised training process, and wherein the object of interest is classified based on a first set of features of the object of interest and a first set of pre-determined features associated with a plurality of compliant samples.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the object of interest is classified into the inlier category when the object of interest meets a boundary criterion of an inlier sample model in a feature space, and wherein the feature space is characterized by one or more features of the first set of features.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the object of interest is classified into the outlier category when the object of interest falls beyond a boundary criterion of an inlier sample model in a feature space, and wherein the feature space is characterized by one or more features of the first set of features.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: when the object of interest is classified into the outlier category, classifying, by a second machine-learning model, the object of interest into a sub-category of a plurality of sub-categories based on a second set of features of the object of interest and a second set of pre-determined features associated with a plurality of labeled samples, wherein the second machine-learning model is trained by the plurality of labeled samples, and wherein the second set of features are different from the first set of features.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sub-categories comprise a false positive category, a void defect category, a non-contact open defect category, a non-wet defect category, a head-in-pillow defect category, a bridging defect category, or an unknown defect category.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining a quality score for the object of interest based on a vector from a point in a feature space corresponding to the object of interest to a reference point in the feature space; and predicting one or more failure modes for the object of interest based on the quality score of the object of interest and the vector.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the reference model is generated based on a weighted average of the one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first X-ray image of the object of interest comprises one or more interfering elements, and wherein the one or more reference objects are preceding objects of an object of interest in a same product batch.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects are captured with the one or more reference objects being located at a same location within a field of view of an X-ray sensor, and wherein the first X-ray image of the object of interest is captured with the object of interest being located at the same location within the field of view of the X-ray sensor.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the first X-ray image of the object of interest is free of interfering elements, wherein the one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects correspond to one or more portions of the first X-ray image, and wherein the one or more reference objects are adjacent to the object of interest within the first X-ray image.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more pre-determined defect models comprises one or more thresholds for characterizing an associated defect, and wherein the one or more thresholds are determined based on one or more heuristic rules.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the object of interest is of a first object type and has one or more particular components, and wherein each reference object is of the first object type and has the same one or more particular components.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: eliminating, from the first X-ray image, one or more interfering elements in the first X-ray image of the object of interest based on the comparison of the first X-ray image and the reference model.
20. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to: identify one or more reference objects for an object of interest to be inspected, wherein each reference object has a same type and components as the object of interest; generate a reference model for the object of interest based on one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects; and determine whether the object of interest is associated with one or more defects by comparing a first X-ray image of the object of interest to the reference model, wherein the one or more defects are characterized by one or more pre-determined defect models, and wherein, when the object of interest is associated with the one or more defects, the one or more defects are classified into respective defect categories based on the one or more pre-determined defect models.
21. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media coupled to one or more of the processors and comprising instructions operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to: identify one or more reference objects for an object of interest to be inspected, wherein each reference object has a same type and components as the object of interest; generate a reference model for the object of interest based on one or more X-ray images of the one or more reference objects; and determine whether the object of interest is associated with one or more defects by comparing a first X-ray image of the object of interest to the reference model, wherein the one or more defects are characterized by one or more pre-determined defect models, and wherein, when the object of interest is associated with the one or more defects, the one or more defects are classified into respective defect categories based on the one or more pre-determined defect models.
</claims>
</document>
