<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/02,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE TX PORTFOLIO 2018
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971459
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE INTELLIGENCE AND SHARED INFRASTRUCTURE LENDING TRANSACTION ENABLEMENT PLATFORM RESPONSIVE TO CROWD SOURCED INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a crowdsourcing request circuit that configures parameter(s) of a crowdsourcing request related to obtaining information on a condition of a collateral for a loan, a crowdsourcing publishing circuit that publishes the crowdsourcing request to a group of information suppliers, and a crowdsourcing communications circuit that collects and processes response(s) from the group of information suppliers, and provides a reward to at least one of the group of information suppliers in response to a successful information supply event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a crowdsourcing request circuit structured to configure at least one parameter of a crowdsourcing request related to obtaining information on a condition of a collateral for a loan; a crowdsourcing publishing circuit configured to publish the crowdsourcing request to a group of information suppliers; and a crowdsourcing communications circuit structured to collect and process at least one response from the group of information suppliers, and to provide a reward to at least one of the group of information suppliers in response to a successful information supply event.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the crowdsourcing publishing circuit is further configured to publish a reward description to at least a portion of the group of information suppliers in response to the successful information supply event.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the crowdsourcing communications circuit further comprises a smart contract circuit structured to manage the reward by determining the successful information supply event in response to the at least one parameter configured for the crowdsourcing request, and to automatically allocate the reward to the at least one of the group of information suppliers in response to the successful information supply event.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the condition of collateral is determined based on an attribute selected from the attributes consisting of: a quality of the collateral, a condition of the collateral, a status of a title to the collateral, a status of a possession of the collateral, and a status of a lien on the collateral.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the collateral is an item, and wherein the condition of the collateral is determined based on an attribute selected from the attributes consisting of: a new or used status of the item, a type of the item, a category of the item, a specification of the item, a product feature set of the item, a model of the item, a brand of the item, a manufacturer of the item, a status of the item, a context of the item, a state of the item, a value of the item, a storage location of the item, a geolocation of the item, an age of the item, a maintenance history of the item, a usage history of the item, an accident history of the item, a fault history of the item, an ownership of the item, an ownership history of the item, a price of a type of the item, a value of a type of the item, an assessment of the item, and a valuation of the item.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a blockchain service circuit structured to record identifying information and the at least one parameter of the crowdsourcing request, the at least one response to the crowdsourcing request, and a reward description, in a distributed ledger for the crowdsourcing request.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a type of requested information, a reward description, and a condition for receiving the reward.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the reward is selected from selected from the rewards consisting of: a financial reward, a token, a ticket, a contractual right, a cryptocurrency amount, a plurality of reward points, a currency amount, a discount on a product or service, and an access right.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising a smart contract circuit structured to process the at least one response and, in response, automatically undertake an action related to the loan.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the action is at least one of a foreclosure action, a lien administration action, an interest-rate setting action, a default initiation action, a substitution of collateral, or a calling of the loan.
11. The system of claim 1, further comprising a robotic process automation circuit structured to, based on training on a training data set comprising human user interactions with at least one of the crowdsourcing request circuit or the crowdsourcing communications circuit, configure the crowdsourcing request based on at least one attribute of the loan.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the training data set further comprises outcomes from a plurality of crowdsourcing requests.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the robotic process automation circuit is further structured to determine at least one domain to which the crowdsourcing publishing circuit publishes the crowdsourcing request.
14. A method, comprising: configuring at least one parameter of a crowdsourcing request related to obtaining information on a condition of a collateral for a loan; publishing the crowdsourcing request to a group of information suppliers; collecting and processing at least one response to the crowdsourcing request; and providing a reward to at least one supplier of the group of information suppliers in response to a successful information supply event.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising training a robotic process automation circuit on a training data set comprising a plurality of outcomes corresponding to a plurality of the crowdsourcing requests, and operating the robotic process automation circuit to iteratively improve the crowdsourcing request.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising providing at least one attribute of the loan to the robotic process automation circuit to configure the crowdsourcing request.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein configuring the crowdsourcing request comprises determining the reward.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising inputting at least one attribute of the loan to the robotic process automation circuit to determine at least one domain to which to publish the crowdsourcing request.
19. An apparatus, comprising: a crowdsourcing request circuit structured to provide an interface to enable configuration of at least one parameter of a crowdsourcing request related to obtaining information on a condition of a collateral for a loan; a crowdsourcing publishing circuit configured to publish the crowdsourcing request to a group of information suppliers in response to the crowdsourcing request; and a crowdsourcing communications circuit structured to provide an interface to collect at least one response to the crowdsourcing request from members of the group of information suppliers, and to provide a reward to at least one of the group of information suppliers in response to a successful information supply event.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, further comprising a smart contract circuit structured to manage the reward by determining the successful information supply event in response to the at least one parameter configured for the crowdsourcing request, and to automatically allocate the reward to the at least one of the group of information suppliers in response to the successful information supply event.
</claims>
</document>
