<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,G06K9/00,G08B25/01,G08B25/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LGS INNOVATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAMARDA, RENATO M.
Ross, Michael Ray
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832513
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR OPERATING A MOVING PLATFORM TO DETERMINE DATA ASSOCIATED WITH A TARGET PERSON OR OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for operating a moving platform to locate a known target at an area associated with the target are disclosed. In an example method to locate the target at the area, a first moving platform, configured with a first type of sensor, is caused to move to the area. An attempt is made to locate, via the first moving platform and the first type of sensor, the target at the area. Based on the attempt, a second moving platform, configured with a second type of sensor, is caused to move to the area. The target is located via the second moving platform and the second type of sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving an instruction to locate a known target at an area associated with the target; causing to move a first moving platform to the area, wherein the first moving platform is configured with a first type of sensor; attempting to locate, via the first moving platform and the first type of sensor, the target at the area; causing to move a second moving platform to the area based on the attempting step, wherein the second moving platform is configured with a second type of sensor different from the first type of sensor of the first moving platform; and locating, via the second moving platform and the second type of sensor, the target.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target comprises at least one of a target person, a target animal, or a target inanimate object.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: transmitting, to the second moving platform, data comprising a known identifier associated with the target, wherein the locating the target is based on the known identifier.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the known identifier comprises at least one of a known image of the target, a known license plate number associated with the target, a known cellular device radio frequency (RF) signal signature for a mobile device of the target, a known mobile subscriber identifier associated with the target, and a known acoustic signature associated with the target.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to locating the target, causing at least one of the first moving platform or the second moving platform to remain within a pre-determined distance from the target.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a message indicating that the target is located; and transmitting the message to at least one of a personal contact associated with the target, rescue personnel, or a law enforcement agency.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second moving platform is configured with a mobile cellular base station, the method further comprising: causing the second moving platform to enable, via the mobile cellular base station, cellular service for a mobile device operated by the target.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: causing to move the second moving platform from a first position within the area to a second position within the area, wherein the second moving platform is able to provide a stronger cellular signal to the mobile device at the second position than at the first position.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second moving platform is configured to relay, to an external communication network, a cellular communication from the mobile device.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the external communication network comprises at least one of a cellular network and a satellite network.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the second moving platform is configured with one or more objects comprising at least one of food, water, clothing, or a detectable beacon device, the method further comprising: causing to land the second moving platform proximate the target to enable access to the one or more objects by the target.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the attempting to locate the target at the area is responsive to determining that a disaster occurred at the area.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: causing to move, based on the attempting step, a third moving platform to the area, wherein the target is further located via the third moving platform.
14. A system comprising: a graphical user interface (GUI); one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, effectuate operations comprising: receiving an instruction to locate a known target at an area associated with the target; causing to move, based on a first operator interaction with the GUI, a first moving platform to the area, wherein the first moving platform is configured with a first type of sensor, attempting to locate, based on data captured by the first moving platform using the first type of sensor, the target at the area; causing to move, based on the attempting step and a second operator interaction with the GUI, a second moving platform to the area, wherein the second moving platform is configured with a second type of sensor different from the first type of sensor of the first moving platform; and locating, based on data captured by the second moving platform using the second type of sensor, the target.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instruction is input to the system via a third operator interaction with the GUI.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the data captured by the first moving platform using the first type of sensor is received by the system based on a third operator interaction with the GUI.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting data, based on a third operator interaction with the GUI, to the second moving platform, wherein the data captured by the second moving platform using the second type of sensor is based on the data transmitted to the second moving platform.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the data transmitted to the second moving platform comprises at least one of the data captured by the first moving platform using the first type of sensor, a position of the first moving platform at the area, a sensor profile of the first moving platform, a power profile of the first moving platform, a flight profile of the first moving platform, and a communication profile of the first moving platform.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: outputting, via a display area of the GUI, image data captured by at least one of the first moving platform and the second moving platform.
20. A system comprising: a first moving platform configured with a first type of sensor; a second moving platform configured with a second type of sensor different from the first type of sensor of the first moving platform; and a computing system configured to: receive an instruction to locate a known target at an area associated with the target; cause to move the first moving platform to the area; attempt to locate, based on data captured by the first moving platform using the first type of sensor, the target at the area; cause to move the second moving platform to the area based on the attempting step; and locate, based on data captured by the second moving platform using the second type of sensor, the target.
</claims>
</document>
