<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06Q50/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SKYLINE AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUSHINSKY, SHAY
HILTCH, OR
UR, SHMUEL
ZIPORI, GUY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123081
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GENERATING A PROBABILITY SCORE INDICATIVE OF A PROBABILITY THAT AN OWNER WILL SELL A REAL ESTATE PROPERTY
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for computerized method for generating a probability score indicative of a probability that an owner will sell a real estate property, comprising: collecting from data sources a set of data associated with a plurality of owners and a plurality of commercial real estate properties (CREs) related thereto, based on a data item indicating a type of a desirable CRE; analyzing the collected set of data using a machine learning technique executed by a computer; determining, based on the analysis, a desirable CRE, and an owner associated with the desirable CRE; determining a probability that the owner will sell the desirable CRE with a certainty level above a predetermined threshold within a predefined time period; and generating, based on the analysis, a probability score that is indicative of the probability that the owner is likely to sell the desirable CRE within the predefined time period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method for generating a probability score indicative of a probability that an owner will sell a real estate property, comprising: collecting from one or more data sources a set of data associated with a plurality of owners and a plurality of commercial real estate properties (CREs) related thereto, based on a data item that indicates a type of a desirable CRE; analyzing the collected set of data using a machine learning technique executed by a computer; determining, based on the analysis, at least one desirable CRE, and at least one owner of the plurality of owners associated with the at least one desirable CRE; determining a probability that the at least one owner will sell the at least one desirable CRE with a certainty level above a predetermined threshold within a predefined time period; and generating, based on the analysis, a probability score that is indicative of the probability that the at least one owner is likely to sell the at least one desirable CRE within the predefined time period.
2. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the set of data comprises at least one of: a type of the at least one owner, an identity of the at least one owner, financial data of the at least one owner, the at least one owner's CRE portfolio, performances of the at least one owner's CRE portfolio, average holding duration of the at least one owner, the at least one owner's financial policy, the at least one owner's recently completed transactions, and the at least one owner's public domain knowledge.
3. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the one or more data sources include at least one of: a public website, a private website, and a real-estate comparison website.
4. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning technique is realized by any one of: a neural network, a recurrent neural network, a decision tree learning, a Bayesian network, and clustering.
5. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the collected set of data further comprises: applying a predetermined set of rules to the collected set of data.
6. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the collected set of data further comprises: collecting additional data associated with the determined at least one owner of the at least one desirable CRE.
7. The computerized method of claim 6, wherein the additional data includes data associated with non-desirable CREs owned by the at least one owner.
8. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the certainty level to be above a predetermined threshold based on historical data gathered with respect to the at least one owner.
9. The computerized method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the certainty level to be based on historical data gathered with respect to owners having similar characteristics to the at least one owner.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon instructions for causing a processing circuitry to perform a process, the process comprising: collecting from one or more data sources a set of data associated with a plurality of owners and a plurality of commercial real estate properties (CREs) related thereto, based on a data item that indicates a type of a desirable CRE; analyzing the collected set of data using a machine learning technique executed by a computer; determining, based on the analysis, at least one desirable CRE, and at least one owner of the plurality of owners associated with the at least one desirable CRE; determining a probability that the at least one owner will sell the at least one desirable CRE with a certainty level above a predetermined threshold within a predefined time period; and generating, based on the analysis, a probability score that is indicative of the probability that the at least one owner is likely to sell the at least one desirable CRE within the predefined time period.
11. A system for generating a probability score indicative of a probability that an owner will sell a real estate property, comprising: a processing circuitry; and a memory, the memory containing instructions that, when executed by the processing circuitry, configure the system to: collect from one or more data sources a set of data associated with a plurality of owners and a plurality of commercial real estate properties (CREs) related thereto, based on a data item that indicates a type of a desirable CRE; analyze the collected set of data using a machine learning technique executed by a computer; determine, based on the analysis, at least one desirable CRE, and at least one owner of the plurality of owners associated with the at least one desirable CRE; determine a probability that the at least one owner will sell the at least one desirable CRE with a certainty level above a predetermined threshold within a predefined time period; and generate, based on the analysis, a probability score that is indicative of the probability that the at least one owner is likely to sell the at least one desirable CRE within the predefined time period.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of data comprises at least one of: a type of the at least one owner, an identity of the at least one owner, financial data of the at least one owner, the at least one owner's CRE portfolio, performances of the at least one owner's CRE portfolio, average holding duration of the at least one owner, the at least one owner's financial policy, the at least one owner's recently completed transactions, and the at least one owner's public domain knowledge.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more data sources include at least one of: a public website, a private website, and a real-estate comparison website.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning technique is realized by any one of: a neural network, a recurrent neural network, a decision tree learning, a Bayesian network, and clustering.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is further configured to: apply a predetermined set of rules to the collected set of data.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is further configured to: collect additional data associated with the determined at least one owner of the at least one desirable CRE.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the additional data includes data associated with non-desirable CREs owned by the at least one owner.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is further configured to: determine the certainty level to be above a predetermined threshold based on historical data gathered with respect to the at least one owner.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is further configured to: determine the certainty level to be based on historical data gathered with respect to owners having similar characteristics to the at least one owner.
</claims>
</document>
