<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q40/08,G06T7/00,G07C5/00,H04M1/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MITCHELL INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
Cannarsa, Umberto Laurent
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748489
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR AUTOMATICALLY PROCESSING VEHICLE COLLISION DAMAGE ESTIMATION AND REPAIR WITH WEARABLE COMPUTING DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for automatically generating a repair estimate report for repairing a damaged vehicle. A user may be directed to capture data that includes vehicle information (e.g., VIN) and damage information (e.g., images of damaged panels and parts) using a computer wearable device based on intake instructions generated by the system. The damage information may be analyzed to obtain repair information. The repair estimate may be submitted to an insurance carrier and a notification specifying an approval or rejection may be generated. The user may use the system in a handsfree manner by viewing and/or listening to intake instructions, vehicle information, and the status of the repair estimate approval in a display and/or through speakers, respectively, of a computer wearable device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining a first set of images of a vehicle damaged during an adverse incident, wherein the first set of damaged vehicle images is captured by a computing device operated by a user; identifying individual parts of the damaged vehicle associated with the first set of damaged vehicle images; determining damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle; obtaining repair information for repairing individual damaged parts of the damaged vehicle based on the determined damage information; and generating a repair estimate report based on the repair information associated with repairing individual damaged parts.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining vehicle identification information by processing images of vehicle identification information, wherein the vehicle identification information is associated with the damaged vehicle; extracting Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) from the captured image of the vehicle identification information; and identifying the damaged vehicle based on the extracted VIN, wherein the identifying the damaged vehicle comprises identifying a make, a model, a sub-model, a trim level, and a year of manufacture of the damaged vehicle.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating a first set of instructions that guide the user during the image capture process of the first set of damaged vehicle images; wherein the first set of instructions is generated based on the vehicle identification information.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining a second set of damaged vehicle images based on the identified individual parts of the damaged vehicle, wherein the second set of damaged vehicle images is captured by the computing device operated by the user.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: generating a second set of instructions that guide the user during the image capture process of the second set of damaged vehicle images; wherein the second set of instructions is generated based on the damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying individual parts of the damaged vehicle associated with the first set of damaged vehicle images comprises using one or more image processing techniques.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle comprises using a machine learning algorithm trained on the historic repair estimate information.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing device comprises a computer wearable device worn by the user configured to facilitate handsfree repair of the damaged vehicle.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising identifying an insurance carrier associated with the adverse incident based on the vehicle identification information; and transmitting the generated repair estimate report to the insurance carrier.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating a notification upon obtaining an approval of the transmitted repair estimate report from the insurance carrier.
11. A system for automating a repair estimation intake process, the system comprising: one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: obtain a first set of images of a vehicle damaged during an adverse incident, wherein the first set of damaged vehicle images is captured by a computing device operated by a user; identify individual parts of the damaged vehicle associated with the first set of damaged vehicle images; determine damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle; obtain repair information for repairing individual damaged parts of the damaged vehicle based on the determined damage information; and generate a repair estimate report based on the repair information associated with repairing individual damaged parts.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to: obtain vehicle identification information by processing images of vehicle identification information, wherein the vehicle identification information is associated with the damaged vehicle; extract Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) from the captured image of the vehicle identification information; and identify the damaged vehicle based on the extracted VIN, wherein the identifying the damaged vehicle comprises identifying a make, a model, a sub-model, a trim level, and a year of manufacture of the damaged vehicle.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to: generate a first set of instructions that guide the user during the image capture process of the first set of damaged vehicle images; wherein the first set of instructions is generated based on the vehicle identification information.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to: obtain a second set of damaged vehicle images based on the identified individual parts of the damaged vehicle, wherein the second set of damaged vehicle images is captured by the computing device operated by the user.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to: generate a second set of instructions that guide the user during the image capture process of the second set of damaged vehicle images; wherein the second set of instructions is generated based on the damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the individual parts of the damaged vehicle associated with the first set of damaged vehicle images are identified by using one or more image processing techniques.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle is determined by using a machine learning algorithm trained on the historic repair estimate information.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured to: identify an insurance carrier associated with the adverse incident based on the vehicle identification information; and transmit the generated repair estimate report to the insurance carrier.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising generating a notification upon obtaining an approval of the transmitted repair estimate report from the insurance carrier.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the computing device comprises a computer wearable device worn by the user configured to facilitate handsfree repair of the damaged vehicle.
21. A non-transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions comprising executable code which when executed by one or more processors, causes the processors to: obtain a first set of images of a vehicle damaged during an adverse incident, wherein the first set of damaged vehicle images is captured by a computing device operated by a user; identify individual parts of the damaged vehicle associated with the first set of damaged vehicle images; determine damage information associated with each of the identified individual parts of the damage vehicle; obtain repair information for repairing individual damaged parts of the damaged vehicle based on the determined damage information; and generate a repair estimate report based on the repair information associated with repairing individual damaged parts.
</claims>
</document>
