<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M16/00,A61M16/06,A61M16/08,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF NORTH TEXAS
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
Clements, Eileen D. M.
Roane, Brandy M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING BEHAVIORAL TRAINING FOR USER ENGAGEMENT WITH MEDICAL DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Various examples of a system and method for providing behavioral training for user engagement with medical devices are described. In one example, a behavioral training system is configured for use with a positive airway pressure (PAP) system that provides PAP therapy to a user. The behavioral training system can include one or more sensors configured to capture measured data and configured to measure parameters pertaining to engagement of a user with a medical device. The system also includes a user interface configured to receive user input data from the user. The system also includes program instructions to analyze measured data and user input data using an expert system, determine, in real time, whether an event related to engagement of the user with the medical device has occurred, and in response to the event, initiate a behavioral training protocol based on an event status.
</abstract>

<claims>
Therefore, the following is claimed:
1. A behavioral training system, comprising: one or more sensors configured to capture measured data, the measured data received from one or more sensors configured to measure one or more parameters pertaining to engagement of a user with a medical device; a user interface configured to receive user input data from the user; a computing device comprising at least one hardware processor; and program instructions executable in the computing device that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to analyze the measured data and the user input data using an expert system, determine, in real time, whether an event related to engagement of the user with the medical device has occurred, and in response to the event, initiate a behavioral training protocol based on an event status.
2. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the program instructions to initiate the behavioral training protocol further cause the computing device to at least one of: send information to the user to facilitate a change in engagement with the medical device and collect additional input data from the user.
3. The behavioral training system of claim 1, further comprising an electronics unit configured to collect and process measured data from the one or more sensors, wherein the measured data is processed using at least one of: digitization and amplification.
4. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors are positioned on one or more components of the medical device, and the event status comprises identifying at least one of: a location, a severity, and a duration of the event.
5. The behavioral training system of claim 4, wherein the one or more sensors are positioned on at least one of: a device configured to generate pressurized air, a hose, and a mask.
6. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprises at least one of: an air pressure sensor, an air flow sensor, an audio sensor, an inertial motion sensor, a light sensor, and a temperature sensor.
7. The behavioral training system of claim 1, further comprising wireless communication between at least one of: one or more of the sensors, electronics unit, controller, and user interface.
8. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the user interface is incorporated into a smart phone, tablet, or wearable device.
9. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors is worn by the user.
10. The behavioral training system of claim 1, wherein the program instructions further cause the computing device to terminate the behavioral training protocol in response to a change in the event status.
11. A behavioral training system in relation to positive airway pressure (PAP) therapy, the system comprising: a computing device comprising at least one hardware processor; and program instructions executable in the computing device that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to measure one or more parameters associated with an operation of a PAP system for PAP therapy using one or more sensors, wherein the PAP system comprises a PAP device that generates pressurized air, a hose, and a mask, wherein the hose delivers the pressurized air to the mask configured to be worn by a user; collect information from a user of the PAP system pertaining to engagement of the user with the PAP system; receive the measured parameters and the collected information; analyze the parameters and the information to identify one or more behavioral training protocols designed to increase adherence of the user to the PAP therapy; and apply the one or more behavioral training protocols.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more sensors are positioned at the interface of the mask and the user or at the interface of the hose and the PAP device.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more sensors comprises at least one of: an air pressure sensor, an air flow sensor, an audio sensor, an inertial motion sensor, a light sensor, and a temperature sensor.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more behavioral training protocols are identified based on an event, the event comprise at least one of: the PAP device turned on, the PAP device turned off, the user wearing the mask while the PAP device is on, the user has removed the mask while the PAP device is on, the PAP system not used for a period of time, the PAP system terminated before treatment period complete, and practice session.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein analyzing the parameters and the information to identify one or more behavioral training protocols comprises evaluating one or more preceding events that have occurred, time of day, user preferences, and behavior protocol requirements.
16. A method for behavioral training, comprising: identifying parameters associated with operation of a medical device indicating engagement of a user with the medical device; capturing measured data, the measured data received from one or more sensors configured to measure one or more parameters pertaining to engagement of the user with the medical device; receiving user input data; analyzing, in at least one computing device, the measured data and the user input data using an expert system; determining, in at least one computing device, in real time, whether an event related to engagement of the user with the medical device has occurred, and in response to the event, initiating a behavioral training protocol, in at least one computing device, based on an event status and displaying or requesting information in a user interface.
17. The method for behavioral training of claim 16, further comprising terminating the behavioral training protocol in response to a change in the event status.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein a user interface is presented to the user in a user device.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the at least one computing device comprises a controller configured to control operation of a behavioral training system and a training module that comprises software configured to perform expert system analysis to identify and apply the one or more behavioral training protocols.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the medical device comprises a PAP device that generates pressurized air, a hose, and a mask, wherein the hose delivers the pressurized air to the mask configured to be worn by the user, wherein the one or more sensors are positioned at the interface of the mask and the user or at the interface of the hose and the PAP device.
</claims>
</document>
