<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H10/60,G16H40/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION
KITAHARA MEDICAL STRATEGIES INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUBO MASAHIRO
HAYASHITANI, MASAHIRO
KITAHARA, SHIGEMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65525360
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL INFORMATION PROCESSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A medical information processing system comprises: an input unit that receives input of electronic chart information for a patient being treated; a machine learning unit that refers to an electronic chart information group for each patient, the information group being obtained on the basis of an inpatient of an acute care facility, and performs machine learning about the discharge destination, from the acute care facility, of each patient; and a discharge-destination prediction unit that predicts the discharge destination of the patient being treated from the received electronic chart information of the patient being treated, on the basis of the learning results obtained from the machine learning unit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical information processing system, comprising: an input unit configured to receive input of electronic medical chart information on a subject patient; a machine learning unit configured to machine-learn a transition destination of each patient from an acute care medical facility by referring to an electronic medical chart information group of each patient obtained from inpatients of the acute care medical facility; and a transition destination prediction unit configured to predict, using a learning result obtained by the machine learning unit, the transition destination of the subject patient from the received electronic medical chart information on the subject patient.
2. The medical information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the transition destination prediction unit is configured to receive the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, and to select, by using the learning result, the transition destination of the subject patient based on which of discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, and transfer to other facility has a higher likelihood.
3. The medical information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the transition destination prediction unit is configured to select, when selecting any one of a home, a convalescent hospital, and other facility as the transition destination of the subject patient, a convalescent hospital or other facility that satisfies a condition in a case in which a probability that a home is not selectable as the transition destination is higher than a threshold value.
4. The medical information processing system according to claim 1, wherein the transition destination prediction unit is configured to receive, at least data on a family structure living with a patient in the electronic medical chart information for a patient having emergency as a hospitalization category input as the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, to predict, using the learning result, the transition destination after hospitalization by emergency transport of the subject patient, and to classify the transition destination as discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, or transfer to other facility.
5. A medical information processing method, comprising: machine learning, a transition destination of each patient from the acute care medical facility based on an electronic medical chart information group of each patient obtained from inpatients of an acute care medical facility; receiving input of electronic medical chart information on a subject patient; and predicting, using a machine learning result, the transition destination of the subject patient from the received electronic medical chart information on the subject patient.
6. The medical information processing method according to claim 5, wherein the predicting of the transition destination includes receiving the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, and selecting, using the machine learning result the transition destination of the subject patient based on which of discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, and transfer to another facility has a higher likelihood.
7. The medical information processing method according to claim 5, wherein, the predicting of the transition destination includes selecting when selecting any one of a home, a convalescent hospital, and other facility as the transition destination of the subject patient, a convalescent hospital or other facility that satisfies a condition in a case in which a probability that a home is not selectable as the transition destination is higher than a threshold value.
8. The medical information processing method according to claim 5, wherein the predicting of the transition destination includes receiving at least data on a cohabiting family structure in the electronic medical chart information for a patient having emergency as a hospitalization category input as the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, predicting, using the learning result, the transition destination after hospitalization by emergency transport of the subject patient, and classifying the transition destination as discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, or transfer to other facility.
9. A recording medium having stored thereon, in a non-transitory manner, a program for causing a processor of an information processing system to operate as: an input unit configured to receive input of electronic medical chart information on a subject patient; a machine learning unit configured to machine-learn a transition destination of each patient from an acute care medical facility by referring to an electronic medical chart information group of each patient obtained from inpatients of the acute care medical facility; and a transition destination prediction unit configured to predict, using a learning result obtained by the machine learning unit, the transition destination of the subject patient from the received electronic medical chart information on the subject patient.
10. The recording medium according to claim 9, wherein the processor is caused to operate so as to receive the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, and to select, using the learning result, the transition destination of the subject patient based on which of discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, and transfer to other facility has a higher likelihood.
11. The recording medium according to claim 9, wherein the processor is caused to operate so as to select, when selecting any one of a home, a convalescent hospital, and other facility as the transition destination of the subject patient, a convalescent hospital or other facility that satisfies a condition in a case in which a probability that a home is not selectable as the transition destination is higher than a threshold value.
12. The recording medium according to claim 9, wherein the processor is caused to operate so as to receive, at least data on a family structure living with a patient in the electronic medical chart information for a patient having emergency as a hospitalization category input as the electronic medical chart information on the subject patient, to predict, using the learning result, the transition destination after hospitalization by emergency transport of the subject patient, and to classify the transition destination as discharge to a home, transfer to a convalescent hospital, or transfer to other facility.
</claims>
</document>
