<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/10,G06N3/08,H04N21/442,H04N21/466
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DAJIA INTERNET INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI YAN
DING WENKUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS, ELECTRONIC DEVICE, AND STORAGE MEDIUM FOR RECOMMENDING MULTIMEDIA RESOURCE
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a method, an apparatus, an electronic device, and a storage medium for recommending multimedia resource, and relates to the field of machine learning. The method includes: acquiring features of the multimedia resource based on a convolutional neural network, where the convolutional neural network comprises N convolutional layers, where N is a positive integer; determining user interest information based on an identifier of a recommended user, where the user interest information is corresponding to the feature of each convolutional layer; determining a first feature matrix based on the convolution of convolution kernel and the feature, where the convolution kernel comprises the user interest information; generating user preference data based on the first feature matrix; and recommending the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the N generated user preference data.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for recommending multimedia resource, comprising: acquiring features of the multimedia resource based on a convolutional neural network, wherein the convolutional neural network comprises N convolutional layers, wherein N is a positive integer; determining user interest information based on an identifier of a recommended user, wherein the user interest information is corresponding to the feature of each convolutional layer; determining a first feature matrix based on the convolution of convolution kernel and the feature, wherein the convolution kernel comprises the user interest information; generating user preference data based on the first feature matrix; and recommending the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the N generated user preference data.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining user attention information based on the identifier, wherein the user attention information matches with the features; generating a user attention weight based on the user attention information and the feature; and generating the user preference data based on the first feature matrix and the user attention weight.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein said generating the user attention weight comprises: determining a second feature matrix based on the convolution of the convolution kernel and the feature, wherein the convolution kernel comprises the user attention information; and obtaining the user attention weight by normalizing the second feature matrix.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein said generating the user preference data comprises: reducing a dimension of the first feature matrix by a maximum pooling layer; and determining the user preference data by weighting and fusing the dimension-reduced first feature matrix and the user attention weight.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said recommending the multimedia resource to the recommended user comprises: acquiring a target weight matrix, wherein the target weight matrix provides weights corresponding to the N generated user preference data; weighting and fusing the N generated user preference data based on the target weight matrix; and recommending the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the weighted and fused user preference data.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein said determining the user interest information comprises: determining the user interest information by vectorizing the identifier based on a first embedding layer, wherein the user interest information is a matrix with an m*m size, and m indicates a width of the convolution kernel used by the each convolutional layer.
7. The method according to claim 2, wherein said determining the user attention information comprises: determining the user attention information by vectorizing the identifier based on a second embedding layer; wherein the user attention information is a matrix with an m*m size, and m indicates a width of the convolution kernel used by the each convolutional layer; and a second weight matrix of the second embedding layer is different from a first weight matrix of a first embedding layer.
8. The method according to claim 3, wherein the second feature matrix is normalized by a following formula:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?wi,s,t=exp(v_{i,s,t})/Σs′,t′exp(v_{i,s′,t′});description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein wi,s,t refers to the user attention weight; v_{i, s, t} and v_{i, s′, t′} refer to two elements at different positions in the second feature matrix; and s′ and t′ are positive integers for traversing all elements in the second feature matrix.
9. The method according to claim 5, wherein weighting and fusing the N generated user preference data by a following formula: wherein oi refers to the fused user preference data; j ranges from 1 to N; oij refers to the user preference data corresponding to a feature output from a jth convolutional layer; rij refers to a weight corresponding to oij in the target weight matrix; the target weight matrix is (ri1, ri2, ri3, . . . , riL; and i refers to the identifier of the recommended user.
10. An apparatus for recommending multimedia resource, comprising: a processor; and a memory, configured to store executable instructions of the processor, wherein the processor is configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: acquire features of the multimedia resource based on a convolutional neural network, wherein the convolutional neural network comprises N convolutional layers, wherein N is a positive integer; determine user interest information based on an identifier of a recommended user, wherein the user interest information is corresponding to the feature of each convolutional layer; determine a first feature matrix based on the convolution of convolution kernel and the feature, wherein the convolution kernel comprises the user interest information; generate user preference data based on the first feature matrix; and recommend the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the N generated user preference data.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: determine user attention information based on the identifier, wherein the user attention information matches with the features; generate a user attention weight based on the user attention information and the feature; and generate the user preference data based on the first feature matrix and the user attention weight.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: determine a second feature matrix based on the convolution of the convolution kernel and the feature, wherein the convolution kernel comprises the user attention information; and obtain the user attention weight by normalizing the second feature matrix.
13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: reduce a dimension of the first feature matrix by a maximum pooling layer; and determine the user preference data by weighting and fusing the dimension-reduced first feature matrix and the user attention weight.
14. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: acquire a target weight matrix, wherein the target weight matrix provides weights corresponding to the N generated user preference data; weight and fuse the N generated user preference data based on the target weight matrix; and recommend the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the weighted and fused user preference data.
15. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: determine the user interest information by vectorizing the identifier based on a first embedding layer; wherein the user interest information is a matrix with an m*m size, and m indicates a width of the convolution kernel used by the each convolutional layer.
16. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to read and execute the executable instructions to: determine the user attention information by vectorizing the identifier based on a second embedding layer; wherein the user attention information is a matrix with an m*m size, and m indicates a width of the convolution kernel used by the each convolutional layer; and a second weight matrix of the second embedding layer is different from a first weight matrix of a first embedding layer.
17. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the second feature matrix is normalized by a following formula:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?wi,s,t=exp(v_{i,s,t})/Σs′,t′exp(v_{i,s′,t′});description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein wi,s,t refers to the user attention weight; v_{i, s, t} and v_{i, s′, t′} refer to two elements at different positions in the second feature matrix; and s′ and t′ are positive integers for traversing all elements in the second feature matrix.
18. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the N generated user preference data are weighted and fused by a following formula: wherein oi refers to the fused user preference data; j ranges from 1 to N; oij refers to the user preference data corresponding to a feature output from a jth convolutional layer; rij refers to a weight corresponding to oij in the target weight matrix; the target weight matrix is (ri1, ri2, ri3, . . . riL); and i refers to the identifier of the recommended user.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, wherein instructions in the storage medium are executed by a processor of an electronic device to cause the electronic device to: acquire features of the multimedia resource based on a convolutional neural network, wherein the convolutional neural network comprises N convolutional layers, wherein N is a positive integer; determine user interest information based on an identifier of a recommended user, wherein the user interest information is corresponding to the feature of each convolutional layer; determine a first feature matrix based on the convolution of convolution kernel and the feature, wherein the convolution kernel comprises the user interest information; generate user preference data based on the first feature matrix; and recommend the multimedia resource to the recommended user based on the N generated user preference data.
</claims>
</document>
