<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LO, KEVIN
DUTTACHOUDHURY, NAYANTARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67220881
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCING SECURITY USING ANOMALY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Certificate usage data is generated which identifies which processes or applications use which specific certificates. A certificate-specific usage model is generated based upon the certificate usage data and is used to detect anomalous usage of a certificate, by an application or process that has not previously used the certificate to authenticate itself to the computing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a certificate usage tracking system that detects a set of processes that authenticate to the computing system using a certificate and generates process/certificate usage data identifying each of the processes in the set of processes and the certificate; a model generation system that generates a certificate-specific usage model representing the process/certificate usage data; a certificate usage anomaly detection system that detects that a given process is attempting to authenticate to the computing system using the certificate and accesses the certificate-specific usage model for the certificate to determine whether the attempted authentication is anomalous and, if so, generates a certificate usage anomaly signal indicative of the anomalous attempted authentication; and alerting logic that generates an alert control signal to generate a near real time alert based on the certificate usage anomaly signal.
2. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the certificate usage anomaly detection system comprises: new certificate identifying logic configured to access a master certificate identifier file that identifies authorized certificates for the computing system to determine whether the certificate is identified in the master certificate identifier file and if not, to generate a new certificate anomaly signal and provide it to the alerting logic.
3. The computing system of claim 2 wherein the certificate usage anomaly detection system comprises: authentication failure detection logic configured to detect repeated authentication failures by the process and generate an authentication failure anomaly signal and provide it to the alerting logic.
4. The computing system of claim 3 wherein the alerting logic is configured to generate a severity level for an anomaly based on the anomaly signal received.
5. The computing system of claim 4 wherein the alerting logic is configured to generate the alert control signal to generate a different near real time alert based on the severity level.
6. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the alerting logic is configured to execute an automated remediation process in response to the certificate usage anomaly signal.
7. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the certificate usage tracking system comprises: process identifying logic configured to identify, in near real time, each process in the set of processes, as it authenticates to the computing system; and certificate identifying logic configured to identify, in near real time, the certificate that each process in the set of processes uses to authenticate to the computing system.
8. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the certificate usage tracking system is configured to generate the process/certificate usage data by accessing a set of event logs that indicate which processes authenticated to the computing system using which certificates and to parse the set of event logs.
9. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the model generation system comprises: stability identifying logic configured to detect changes to the process/certificate usage data to determine a stability of the process/certificate usage data and to generate a stability signal indicative of the detected stability.
10. The computing system of claim 9 wherein the model generation system comprises: model generator logic configured to generate the certificate-specific usage model when the stability signal indicates a threshold level of stability.
11. The computing system of claim 1 wherein the model generation system comprises: feedback/machine learning logic configured to receive feedback data indicative of an accuracy of the certificate usage anomaly detection system and perform machine learning to improve accuracy of the certificate usage anomaly detection system.
12. A computer implemented method, comprising: detecting a set of processes that authenticate to the computing system using a certificate; generating process/certificate usage data identifying each of the processes in the set of processes and the certificate; generating a certificate-specific usage model representing the process/certificate usage data; detecting that a given process is attempting to authenticate to the computing system using the certificate; accessing the certificate-specific usage model for the certificate to determine whether the attempted authentication is anomalous; if so, generating a certificate usage anomaly signal indicative of the anomalous attempted authentication; and generating an alert control signal to generate a near real time alert based on the certificate usage anomaly signal.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 12 and further comprising: accessing a master certificate identifier file that identifies authorized certificates for the computing system to determine whether the certificate is identified in the master certificate identifier file; if not, to generating a new certificate anomaly signal; and providing the new certificate anomaly signal to the alerting logic.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 13 and further comprising: detecting repeated authentication failures by the given process; generating an authentication failure anomaly signal; and providing the authentication failure anomaly signal to the alerting logic.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 14 wherein generating an alert control signal comprises: generating a severity level for an anomaly based on the anomaly signal received; and generate the alert control signal to generate a different near real time alert based on the severity level.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 12 and further comprising: executing an automated remediation process in response to the certificate usage anomaly signal.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 12 wherein generating process/certificate usage data comprises: identifying, in near real time, each process in the set of processes, as it authenticates to the computing system; and identifying, in near real time, the certificate that each process in the set of processes uses to authenticate to the computing system.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 12 wherein generating process/certificate usage data comprises: accessing a set of event logs that indicate which processes authenticated to the computing system using which certificates; and parsing the set of event logs.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 12 and further comprising: receive feedback data indicative of an accuracy of the certificate usage anomaly detection system; and performing machine learning to improve accuracy of the certificate usage anomaly detection system.
20. A computing system, comprising: a processor; a certificate usage tracking system that detects a set of processes that authenticate to the computing system using a certificate and generates process/certificate usage data identifying each of the processes in the set of processes and the certificate; a model generation system that generates a certificate-specific usage model representing the process/certificate usage data; a certificate usage anomaly detection system that detects that a given process is attempting to authenticate to the computing system using the certificate and accesses the certificate-specific usage model for the certificate to determine whether the attempted authentication is anomalous and, if so, generates a certificate usage anomaly signal indicative of the anomalous attempted authentication; new certificate identifying logic configured to access a master certificate identifier file that identifies authorized certificates for the computing system to determine whether the certificate is identified in the master certificate identifier file and if not, to generate a new certificate anomaly signal and provide it to the alerting logic; authentication failure detection logic configured to detect repeated authentication failures by the process and generate an authentication failure anomaly signal and provide it to the alerting logic; and alerting logic that generates an alert ranking based on the certificate usage anomaly signal, the new certificate anomaly signal and the authentication failure anomaly signal, and an alert control signal, based on the alert ranking, to generate a near real time alert.
</claims>
</document>
