<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6886,G06F16/28,G06F17/18,G16B20/00,G16B40/00,G16B45/00,G16B5/00,G16B5/20,G16B50/00,G16H10/20,G16H20/00,G16H20/10,G16H20/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50,G16H50/70,G16H70/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTONGENE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATAULLAKHANOV, RAVSHAN
BAGAEV, ALEXANDER
KOTLOV, NIKITA
FRENKEL, FELIKS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62779138
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING, VISUALIZING AND CLASSIFYING MOLECULAR FUNCTIONAL PROFILES
</title>

<abstract>
Various methods, systems, computer readable media, and graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are presented and described that enable a subject, doctor, or user to characterize or classify various types of cancer precisely. Additionally, described herein are methods, systems, computer readable media, and GUIs that enable more effective specification of treatment and improved outcomes for patients with identified types of cancer. Some embodiments of the methods, systems, computer readable media, and GUIs described herein comprise obtaining RNA expression data and/or whole exome sequencing (WES) data for a biological sample from a subject; determining a molecular-functional (MF) profile for the subject; identifying an MF profile cluster with which to associate the MF profile for the subject; and clustering the plurality of MF profiles to obtain the MF profile clusters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform: obtaining RNA expression data for a biological sample from a patient having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer; processing the RNA expression data with software to determine gene group expression levels for a respective set of gene groups, the gene groups including a first set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer malignancy and a second set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer microenvironment; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) to assist a clinician identify a combination therapy for the patient, the GUI having: a first GUI portion for identifying the combination therapy for the patient; and a second GUI portion containing a visualization of at least some of the gene groups, the visualization including GUI elements corresponding to the at least some of the gene groups, wherein visual characteristics of the GUI elements are identified using the gene group expression levels; receiving first input indicating one or more of the gene groups visualized in the second GUI portion and specified by the clinician to target in the combination therapy for the patient; and updating, based at least in part on the first input, the first GUI portion to display a visualization of a first combination of therapies including a first therapy and a second therapy, wherein the first combination of therapies is directed at regulating the one or more of the gene groups.
2. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, further comprising updating, based at least in part on the first input, the second GUI portion to visually emphasize one or more of the GUI elements to indicate gene groups associated with the first combination of therapies.
3. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein updating the second GUI portion to visually emphasize one or more of the GUI elements further comprises generating, in the second GUI portion, one or more markers proximate to the one or more GUI elements.
4. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein updating the second GUI portion further comprises visually emphasizing one or more GUI elements corresponding to one or more gene groups associated with cancer malignancy targeted by the first combination of therapies.
5. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 2, wherein updating the second GUI portion further comprises visually emphasizing one or more GUI elements corresponding to one or more gene groups associated with cancer microenvironment targeted by the first combination of therapies.
6. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein generating the GUI further comprises: determining a first size for a first GUI element of the GUI elements using one or more gene expression levels determined for a gene group corresponding to the first GUI element; determining a second size for a second GUI element of the GUI elements using one or more expression levels determined for a gene group corresponding to the second GUI element; determining a respective color for each of the first GUI element and the second GUI element to obtain a first color and a second color based on whether the corresponding gene group represents an anti-tumor processor or a pro-tumor process; generating the first GUI element in the second GUI portion to have the first size and the first color; and generating the second GUI element in the second GUI portion to have the second size and the second color.
7. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the GUI further has a third GUI portion containing a visualization of biomarkers, and the method further comprises: receiving second input indicating at least one of the biomarkers specified by the clinician to target in the combination therapy for the patient; and updating, based at least in part on the second input, the first GUI portion to display a visualization of a second combination of therapies including a third therapy, wherein the third therapy is directed at regulating the at least one of the biomarkers.
8. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the visualization of biomarkers includes at least one biomarker associated with an immunotherapy.
9. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the visualization of biomarkers includes at least one biomarker associated with a targeted therapy.
10. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform: obtaining RNA expression data for a biological sample from a patient having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer; processing the RNA expression data with software to determine gene group expression levels for a respective set of gene groups, the gene groups including a first set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer malignancy and a second set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer microenvironment; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) to assist a clinician identify a combination therapy for the patient, the GUI having: a first GUI portion for identifying the combination therapy for the patient; and a second GUI portion containing a visualization of at least some of the gene groups, the visualization including GUI elements corresponding to the at least some of the gene groups, wherein visual characteristics of the GUI elements are identified using the gene group expression levels; receiving first input indicating one or more of the gene groups visualized in the second GUI portion and specified by the clinician to target in the combination therapy for the patient; and updating, based at least in part on the first input, the first GUI portion to display a visualization of a first combination of therapies including a first therapy and a second therapy, wherein the first combination of therapies is directed at regulating the one or more of the gene groups.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the system further comprises presenting, in the GUI, information relating to proposed effectiveness of the first combination of therapies.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the system further comprises presenting, in the GUI, information relating to potential adverse effects of the first combination of therapies.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the system further comprises presenting, in the GUI, information relating to published clinical trials associated with the first combination of therapies.
14. The system of claim 10, the system further comprises presenting, in the GUI, information relating to ongoing clinical trials associated with the first combination of therapies.
15. The system of claim 10, the system further comprises presenting, in the GUI, information relating to biological influence of the first combination of therapies.
16. A method for assisting a clinician in designing combination therapies for treating patients having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer, the method comprising: obtaining RNA expression data for a biological sample from a patient having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer; processing the RNA expression data with software to determine gene group expression levels for a respective set of gene groups, the gene groups including a first set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer malignancy and a second set of one or more gene groups associated with cancer microenvironment; generating a graphical user interface (GUI) to assist the clinician identify a combination therapy for the patient, the GUI having: a first GUI portion for identifying the combination therapy for the patient; and a second GUI portion containing a visualization of at least some of the gene groups, the visualization including GUI elements corresponding to the at least some of the gene groups, wherein visual characteristics of the GUI elements are identified using the gene group expression levels; receiving first input indicating one or more of the gene groups visualized in the second GUI portion and specified by the clinician to target in the combination therapy for the patient; and updating, based at least in part on the first input, the first GUI portion to display a visualization of a first combination of therapies including a first therapy and a second therapy, wherein the first combination of therapies is directed at regulating the one or more of the gene groups.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first combination of therapies includes at least one therapy selected from the group consisting of: chemotherapy, antibody drug conjugates, hormonal therapy, viral therapy, genetic therapy, non-immune protein therapy, antiangiogenic agents, anti-cancer vaccines, radiotherapy, soluble receptor therapy, cell based therapy, adoptive T-cell therapy, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the first combination of therapies includes at least one therapy selected from the group consisting of: adoptive T-cell therapy, immunotherapy, and targeted therapy.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the first combination of therapies includes a targeted therapy selected from a group consisting of an immune checkpoint therapy, an anti-cancer vaccine therapy, and a T cell therapy.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising administering the first combination of therapies to the patient.
</claims>
</document>
