<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/46,G06Q20/14,G06Q20/32,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHETIA, CHIRANJEET
AGRAWAL, SHUBHAM
ZHAO, HANGQI
Ma, Shizhe
Wang, Sheng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for mobile pay
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein is a computer-implemented method for settling an outstanding invoice issued by a payee, including the steps of capturing a digital image of an invoice issued by a payee to a payor, processing the digital image to identify invoice data and a network location associated with the payee, automatically establishing communication with the network location identified in the digital image, and automatically inputting payment information into one or more fields of the webpage at the network location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for settling an outstanding invoice issued by a payee, comprising: capturing, with at least one processor and via an image capture device of a mobile device associated with a payor, a digital image of an invoice issued by a payee to the payor; processing, with at least one processor, the digital image to identify in the digital image: (i) invoice data and (ii) a network location associated with the payee; automatically establishing, with at least one processor, communication with the network location identified in the digital image, the network location comprising a bill-pay website; and automatically inputting, with at least one processor, payment information into a plurality of fields of the bill-pay website, the payment information comprising at least a portion of the invoice data and an account identifier associated with the payor.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the network location comprises a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) printed on the invoice.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the invoice data comprises at least one of the following: an account identifier; a payor identifier; a payee identifier; an invoice amount; or any combination thereof.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising launching an electronic wallet application on the mobile device prior to capturing the digital image of the invoice.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the account identifier is obtained from an electronic wallet application executed on the mobile device.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the electronic wallet application processes the digital image, establishes the communication with the network location identified in the digital image, and inputs the payment information.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising submitting the inputted payment information from the bill-pay website in response to receiving user input, wherein the user input is received in response to a prompt presented to the user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the mobile device processes the digital image.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a remote server processes the digital image and communicates the invoice data and the network location data to the mobile device.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein processing the digital image comprises: extracting text from the digital image; generating, based at least in part on a location and/or pattern of the extracted text on the invoice, location and/or pattern data; and identifying, based at least in part on the location data and/or the pattern data, at least one of the following: a network location; an account identifier; a payor identifier; a payee identifier; and an invoice amount.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein processing the digital image comprises: identifying at least one field in the digital image, wherein the at least one field comprises text; and identifying, based at least on a regular expression, a network location in the at least one field.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the regular expression is generated at least in part on a predefined network location string.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, in the digital image, a position of the at least one field, wherein the position of the at least one field comprises an x,y coordinate; identifying one or more additional fields based at least in part on the x,y coordinate of the at least one field; and identifying, based at least in part on a regular expression, a network location in the one or more additional text fields.
14. A system for settling an outstanding invoice issued by a payee, comprising: at least one image capture device; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one image capture device, the at least one processor programmed or configured to: capture, with the at least one image capture device, a digital image of an invoice issued by a payee to a payor; process the digital image to identify in the digital image: (i) invoice data and (ii) a network location associated with the payee; automatically establish communication with the network location identified in the digital image, the network location comprising a bill-pay website; and automatically input payment information into one or more fields of the bill-pay website, the payment information comprising the invoice data and an account identifier associated with the payor.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor processes the digital image.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed or configured to: communicate the digital image to a remote server that processes the digital image; and receive, from the remote server, the invoice data and the network location data.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is programmed or configured to process the digital image by: extracting text from the digital image; generating, based at least in part on a location and/or pattern of the extracted text on the invoice, location and/or pattern data; and identifying, based at least in part on the location data and/or the pattern data, at least one of the following: a network location; an account identifier; a payor identifier; a payee identifier; and an invoice amount.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is programmed or configured to, based on user input, launch an electronic wallet application.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed or configured to obtain the account identifier from the electronic wallet application.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the at least one processor processes the digital image, establishes the communication with the network location identified in the digital image, and inputs the payment information through the electronic wallet application.
21. A computer program product for settling an outstanding invoice issued by a payee, comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium including program instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: capture, via at least one image capture device, a digital image of an invoice issued by a payee to a payor; process the digital image to identify in the digital image: (i) invoice data and (ii) a network location associated with the payee; automatically establish communication with the network location identified in the digital image, the network location being a bill-pay website; and automatically input payment information into one or more fields of the bill-pay website, the payment information including the invoice data and an account identifier associated with the payor.
</claims>
</document>
