<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,G06T19/00,G09B9/00,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EOLIANVR
</assignee>

<inventors>
CANNIZZARO, JOHN
JACKSON, RODNEY
MCCORMACK, MICHAEL
SIMMONS, MICHAEL
SIPTROTH, KYLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68466889
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND CONTENT AGNOSTIC, INTERACTIVE, COLLABORATIVE, SYNCHRONIZED MIXED REALITY SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system provides a device and content agnostic, interactive, collaborative and synchronized virtual world comprising of three dimensional and two dimensional virtual objects defined by data, which can be viewed, customized, built on and interacted with simultaneously by geographically disparate users with different device types, including VR, AR, Tablet, and Computer devices, whereby the content may be ingested from or controlled by data and models from external sources or the system's internal storage. A machine learning component is implemented as a set of software containers. The containerized solution can be deployed as an enterprise service, in a cloud architecture, or as a part of a monolithic deployment that runs natively in any one of the components as part of the larger architecture. Exemplary use cases include: Real Estate property demonstration, property design, landscape design; health care medical image presentation, clinical decision support, training; Military training, planning, observation, and combat decision support.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A modular interactive simulation system comprising: one or more end user application modules, each end user application module for displaying a simulation and adapted to request data from other modules and/or external providers; a data ingest translators module for translating data into formats compatible with the formats of the end user application modules and for receiving data from external providers; a content repository module for holding data for simulation; a simulation content authoring module having an application programming interface for enabling an author to communicate with design software to create content for simulations; and a content delivery broker connected to each of the end user application modules, the data ingest translators module, the content repository module, and the simulation content authoring module, said content delivery broker adapted for receiving data requests from the modules and for routing responses to data requests to the modules requesting the data.
2. The modular system of claim 1 further comprising a machine learning module holding one or more models of machine learning for analyzing results of user data and for modifying instructions to the modular system based upon the analysis of the results user data.
3. The modular system of claim 2 wherein the content repository module holds data for results of simulations.
4. The modular system of claim 3 wherein the machine learning module reads the results of simulations and modifies instructions to the modular system based upon the results read from the content repository module.
5. The modular system of claim 3 wherein one or more modules include one or more machine learning models for analyzing the operation of the module modifying instructions in the module based upon the analysis of the operation of the module.
6. The modular system of claim 1 wherein one or more modules include one or more machine learning models for analyzing the operation of the module modifying instructions in the module based upon the analysis of the operation of the module.
7. The modular system of claim 2 further comprising a multi-user networking module connected to the end user application modules and to the content delivery broker for synchronizing variables among end user application modules.
8. A modular interactive simulation system comprising: one or more end user application modules, each end user application module for displaying a simulation and adapted to request data from other modules and/or external providers; a data ingest translators module for translating data into formats compatible with the formats of the end user application modules and for receiving data from external providers; a machine learning module holding one or more models of machine learning for analyzing results of user data and for modifying instructions to the simulation system based upon the analysis of the results user data; a content repository module for holding data for simulation and data for results of simulations; a multi-user networking module for synchronizing variables among end user application modules; a simulation content authoring module having an application programming interface for enabling an author to communicate with design software to create content for simulations; and a content delivery broker connected to each of the end user application modules, the data ingest translators module, the machine learning module, the content repository module, and the simulation content authoring module, said content delivery broker adapted for receiving data requests from the modules and for routing responses to data requests to the modules requesting the data.
9. The modular system of claim 8 wherein two or more end user application modules have different formats for generating, rendering, displaying, sending, or receiving data.
10. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the one or more end user application modules generate data signals for sensor data.
11. The modular system of claim 8 where the end user application modules comprise one or more from the group consisting of personal computers, tablets, smartphones, augmented reality glasses or virtual reality headsets.
12. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the end user application module further comprises an input/output module.
13. The modular system of claim 12 wherein the input/output module has a peripheral mediator adapted to receive and send input and output signals for peripherals.
14. The modular system of claim 13 wherein the input signals comprise one or more signals representative of visual, auditory and physical feedback.
15. The modular system of claim 14 wherein the input signals comprise one or more signals representative of physical activity, hand positions, head positions, head rotation, and positions of tracked objects and biological monitors, heart rate, respiration, and blood pressure.
16. The modular system of claim 13 wherein the output signals comprise one or more signals for the group consisting of audio speakers, video displays, and haptics.
17. The modular system of claim 12 wherein the end user application module further comprises a system module mediator coupled to the multi-user networking module and to the content delivery broker module.
18. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the data ingest translators module is adapted to receive data from a plurality of external data providers.
19. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the data ingest translator module is adapted to receive data from the simulation content authoring module and to translate the received data into data compatible with end user application modules.
20. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the end user application modules are coupled to the simulation content authoring module for receiving requests from the end user application modules to alter the content of a simulation.
21. The modular system of claim 20 wherein content of a simulation is altered by adding, deleting, or changing content.
22. The modular system of claim 19 wherein the content delivery broker module and the content repository module send and receive data between each other.
23. The modular system of claim 19 wherein the content delivery broker outputs data from the content repository module to the data ingest translators module to translate data from the content repository module that is not compatible with one or more end user application modules or end user devices.
24. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the content delivery broker applies unique identifiers to stored content.
25. The modular system of claim 19 wherein the content delivery broker applies unique identifiers to stored simulations.
26. The modular system of claim 24 wherein the content deliver broker applies unique identifiers to stored alterations.
27. The modular system of claim 8 further comprising a multi-user network module coupled to the end user application modules.
28. The modular system of claim 27 wherein the multi-user networking component is adapted to couple the end user application modules together for exchanging data among end users.
29. The modular system of claim 28 wherein the data exchanged among end user application modules are unique identifiers.
30. The modular system of claim 27 wherein the multi-user networking component is coupled to the content delivery broker through each end user application module.
31. The modular system of claim 27 wherein the end user application module(s) are coupled to the multi-user networking module for exchanging information and data among end user application modules.
32. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the data ingest translator module is coupled to the simulation content authoring module and the machine learning module for receiving data requests and requests for machine learning models and for translating the received data and received models into formats compatible with the modules making the data requests and model requests.
33. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the simulation content authoring module is coupled to the data ingest translator module, the machine learning module, and the content delivery broker whereby the simulation content authoring module makes data requests and exchanges data with the content delivery broker module, exchanges data with the machine learning module and outputs data to the data ingest translators module for translation into formats compatible with the end user application modules.
34. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the content repository module is coupled with the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module and is adapted for receiving and holding data received from the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module and for sending stored data to the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module.
35. The modular system of claim 8 wherein one or more modules include one or more machine learning models for analyzing the operation of the module modifying instructions in the module based upon the analysis of the operation of the module.
36. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the machine learning module is coupled to comprises a plurality of machine learning models for delivery on demand to other modules, said models are adapted to acquire test data on the operation of the modules and provide new instructions to the system based upon the results of test data analyzed by the models.
37. The modular system of claim 36 wherein the machine learning module provides new instructions to the one or more modules in the system.
38. The modular system of claim 8 wherein the machine learning module is coupled to the content delivery broker module, the content repository module, and to the data ingest translator module(s) wherein the machine learning module comprises a plurality of machine learning models for delivery on demand to other modules, said models are adapted to acquire test data on the operation of the modules and provide new instructions to the system based upon the results of test data analyzed by the models.
39. A modular interactive simulation system for generating virtual and augmented reality simulations including one of more objects, comprising: a plurality of end user application modules, a data ingest translators module, a machine learning module, a content repository module, a simulation content authoring module, a multi-user network module, and a content delivery broker adapted for receiving data requests from the modules and for routing responses to data requests to the modules requesting the data, wherein the end user application modules are adapted to display a simulation, adapted to request data from other modules or external providers, and adapted to receive sensor data and provide output data; wherein the content repository module is coupled with the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module and is adapted for receiving and holding data received from the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module and for sending stored data to the content delivery broker module and the machine learning module on demand; wherein the multi-user network module is connected to the end user application modules and is adapted to the end user application modules to send data to and receive data from other end user application modules and to exchange data with the content delivery broker module; wherein the data ingest translators module is coupled to the simulation content authoring module and the machine learning module for receiving data requests and request for machine learning models and for translating the received data and machine learning models into formats compatible with the modules making the data requests and model requests; and wherein the content delivery broker module is coupled to the data ingest translators module, to the end user application modules, to the content repository module and selectively coupled to one or more external data sources for receiving requests for data from end user application modules, locating the requested data, sending the requested data to the data ingest translators module for translating the requested data into formats compatible with the end user application modules and delivering the translated data to the end user application modules in their respective formats.
40. A method for simulation comprising: within a computing environment comprised of a computer processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium operably coupled to the computer processor and having program instructions stored therein, and end user application modules for displaying a presentation of augmented or virtual reality, the computer processor being operable to execute the program instructions to perform the steps of: reading data representative of objects for display in a simulation from one or more sources; translating the read data into data formats compatible with end user application modules; storing the translated data in a simulation content repository module; and delivering the translated to the end user modules in formats compatible with the end user modules.
41. The method of claim 40 further comprising brokering translated stored data to one or more end user application modules.
42. The method of claim 40 wherein the end user application module makes requests for data.
43. The method of claim 40 wherein the step of storing translated data includes attaching unique identifiers to stored data.
44. The method of claim 43 wherein the end user application modules receive the unique content identifiers of data for each simulation.
45. The method of claim 44 wherein altered data is stored with a unique identifier and end user application modules receive the unique identifiers for the altered data.
46. The method of claim 44 wherein an end user application module sends unique identifiers for data to a content delivery broker and the and the content delivery broker returns the data associated with the unique identifier to the end user application module.
47. The method of claim 44 wherein the translated content of altered data is brokered to other end user application modules.
48. The method of claim 40 wherein data read from external providers is translated into formats compatible with end user application modules.
49. The method of claim 48 where translated data in one or more formats are brokered to end user application modules in accordance with formats compatible with the end user application modules.
50. The method of claim 48 where translated data in one or more formats are brokered to the content repository module.
51. The method of claim 40 further comprising connecting two or more end user application modules into a multi-user networking module network where unique identifiers in one end user application module are shared other end user application modules on the multi-user network.
52. The method of claim 40 wherein the end user application modules receive input and output signals from peripherals.
53. The method of claim 52 wherein the input signals comprise one or more signals representative of visual, auditory and physical feedback.
54. The method of claim 53 wherein the input signals comprise one or more signals representative of physical activity, hand positions, head positions, head rotation, and positions of tracked objects and biological monitors, heart rate, respiration, and blood pressure.
55. The method of claim 53 wherein the output signals comprise one or more signals for the group consisting of audio speakers, video displays, and haptics.
56. A method for simulation comprising: within a computing environment comprised of a computer processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium operably coupled to the computer processor and having program instructions stored therein, and end user application modules for displaying a presentation of augmented or virtual reality, the computer processor being operable to execute the program instructions to perform the steps of: authoring simulation content data; reading data from external sources; translation authored content and content from external sources into formats compatible with end user application modules; storing the translated content in a content repository module with unique identifiers; distributing the unique identifiers to the end user modules; brokering content from the content repository module to the end user modules in response to a request for content that includes one or more unique identifiers.
57. A method for simulation comprising: within a computing environment comprised of a computer processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium operably coupled to the computer processor and having program instructions stored therein, and end user application modules for displaying a presentation of augmented or virtual reality, the computer processor being operable to execute the program instructions to perform the steps of: authoring simulation content; upon request of an end user application module, searching external sources for requested data; translating authored data and data from external sources into one or more formats compatible with end user application modules; storing translated content in the content repository module with unique identifiers attached to the authored data; responding to a request for data from an end user application module by searching the content repository module and external sources for the requested data; brokering a request for data from an end user application module by delivering the requested data; delivering unique identifiers for the requested data to other modules; updating the other modules with the unique identifiers to synchronize the system for displaying the same content on two or more end user application modules.
58. The method for simulation of claim 57 further comprising analyzing results of a simulation and modifying instructions for the modules to operate in accordance with the modified instructions.
59. A method for simulation comprising: within a computing environment comprised of a computer processor, at least one computer-readable storage medium operably coupled to the computer processor and having program instructions stored therein, user devices with displays for visualizing a simulation and displaying the visualized simulation in an environment of a user, wherein the computer processor is operable to execute instructions to perform the steps of: loading a user interface for user devices; receiving a request from a user to enter program for displaying a simulation; granting or denying the request for entry into the program in accordance with one or more credentials presented by the user; after granting a request, enabling a user to access an authoring content module, a multi-user network module, a content delivery broker module, a content repository module for brokering data, and a data ingest translators module in accordance with the credentials of the user; offering a choice of simulation data content stored in the content repository module to the user; in response to a choice made by the user, brokering the chosen simulation data content from the content repository module to one or more end users; rendering a visualization for the simulation; synchronizing position of the visualization of the simulation with the environment of each end user with other end users; altering the configured visualization; and updating the altered configured visualization.
60. The method of claim 59 wherein choices offered to the user include starting a solo simulation, starting a new multiparty simulation, and entering an existing multiparty simulation.
61. The method of claim 59 wherein the step of altering the visualization of the simulation includes adding data to the simulation.
62. The method of claim 59 wherein if the data is not available in the simulation content repository module, brokering data from external sources.
63. The method of claim 59 wherein alterations to visualization are distributed to user by the multi-user networking module.
64. The modular system of claim 8 wherein modules are configured to accept data in one format and the data ingest translator module translates data into the one format.
65. The modular system of claim 64 wherein the one format is a format for text data.
66. The modular system of claim 65 wherein the one format is JSON.
67. The modular system of claim 65 wherein modules configured to accept non-text data in one or more formats.
68. The modular system of 67 wherein the non-text data are one or more types of data selected from the group consisting of images, video, audio and three dimensional models.
69. The modular system of claim 68 wherein the modules are configured to accept data in a single different format for each type of data and the data ingest translator module translates the non-text type of data into the single different format the type of non-text format accepted by the modules.
</claims>
</document>
