<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/0456,H04B7/06,H04L5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64563796
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATION OF RANK AND PRECODING MATRIX INDICATION DETERMINATIONS FOR MULTIPLE ANTENNA SYSTEMS WITH APERIODIC CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION REPORTING IN 5G OR OTHER NEXT GENERATION NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating rank and precoding matrix indication determinations for multiple antennas systems with aperiodic channel state information reporting in a wireless communications system is provided herein. A method can comprise determining, by a mobile device comprising a processor, first channel state data of a channel based on a periodic configuration of the mobile device for first transmissions of the first channel state data periodically. The method can also comprise in response to receiving, from the network node device, reference signal data associated with a reference signal, determining, by the mobile device, second channel state data of the channel based on an aperiodic configuration of the mobile device for second transmissions of the second channel state data aperiodically. Further, the method can comprise transmitting, by the mobile device, the aperiodic configuration of the mobile device to the network node device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user equipment device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on data selected from first channel state data for a channel, determining second channel state data for the channel; and sending, to a network device, the second channel state data as an aperiodic configuration of the user equipment device.
2. The user equipment device of claim 1, wherein the determining the first channel state data of the channel based on the data selected from the second channel state data of the channel comprises reducing a complexity associated with aperiodic reporting according to a defined complexity criterion.
3. The user equipment device of claim 2, wherein the data selected from the first channel state data comprises first rank information of the second channel state data and a first precoding matrix index of the second channel state data, and wherein the reducing the complexity comprises: determining second rank information and a second precoding matrix index for the aperiodic reporting based on the first rank information and the first precoding matrix index.
4. The user equipment device of claim 2, wherein the reducing the complexity comprises reducing a search space in a codebook as compared to performing an exhaustive search over the search space in the codebook.
5. The user equipment device of claim 2, wherein the reducing the complexity comprises reducing a number of computations performed by the user equipment device to search a search space, resulting in a reduced number of computations as compared to an exhaustive search performed for periodic reporting.
6. The user equipment device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a reported rank and a precoding index based on a periodic configuration of the user equipment device; and determining the aperiodic configuration for the user equipment device based on a defined range associated with the reported rank and the precoding index.
7. The user equipment device of claim 6, wherein the defined range comprises a first rank that is the reported rank plus one rank and a second rank that is the reported rank minus one rank.
8. The user equipment device of claim 6, wherein the determining the reported rank and the precoding index comprises using an exhaustive search of a codebook for periodic reporting.
9. The user equipment device of claim 1, wherein the second channel state data of the channel is based on a periodic configuration of the user equipment device, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining the second channel state data of the channel based on the periodic configuration of the user equipment device.
10. A method, comprising: generating, by a device comprising a processor, an aperiodic channel state information report based on selected data derived from a periodic channel state information report; and facilitating, by the device, a transmission of the aperiodic channel state information report to a network device of a communications network.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the periodic channel state information report comprises first channel state data of a channel, and wherein the generating the aperiodic channel state information report comprises generating second channel state data of the channel based on the selected data.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first channel state data of the channel is used by the device for communication with the network device.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating the aperiodic channel state information report comprises reducing a complexity associated with aperiodic reporting based on reducing a search space in a codebook as compared to performing an exhaustive search over the search space in the codebook.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the selected data comprises first rank information of the periodic channel state information report and a first precoding matrix index of the periodic channel state information report, and wherein the generating the aperiodic channel state information report comprises reducing a complexity associated with aperiodic reporting based on determining second rank information and a second precoding matrix index for the aperiodic reporting based on the first rank information and the first precoding matrix index.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating the aperiodic channel state information report comprises reducing a complexity associated with aperiodic reporting based on reducing a number of computations performed by the device to search a search space, resulting in a reduced number of computations as compared to an exhaustive search performed for periodic reporting.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, by the device, a reported rank and a precoding index based on a periodic configuration of the device; and determining, by the device, an aperiodic configuration for the device based on a defined range associated with the reported rank and the precoding index.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the defined range comprises a first rank that is the reported rank plus one rank and a second rank that is the reported rank minus one rank.
18. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining first channel state data of a channel based on selected data from second channel state data of the channel, wherein the second channel state data is received prior to the determining the first channel state data; and transmitting, to a network device of a communications network, an aperiodic channel state information report that comprises the first channel state data.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the selected data comprises first rank information of the second channel state data and a first precoding matrix index of the second channel state data, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining second rank information and a second precoding matrix index for aperiodic reporting based on the first rank information and the first precoding matrix index.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a reported rank and a precoding index based on a periodic configuration; and determining an aperiodic configuration based on a defined range associated with the reported rank and the precoding index, wherein the defined range comprises a first rank that is the reported rank plus one rank and a second rank that is the reported rank minus one rank.
</claims>
</document>
