<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06N20/00,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DRESEVIC, BODIN
BOIES, DANIEL
ROCHETTE, ALEXANDRE
AGRAWAL, VASHUTOSH
MARIN, MARIUS A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69156502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXT-SENSITIVE SUMMARIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
This document relates to compression of information into a human-readable format, such as a sentence or phrase. Generally, the disclosed techniques can extract values, such as purposes and topics, from information items and generate compressed representations of the information items that include the extracted values. In some cases, machine learning models can be employed to extract the values, and also to rank the values for inclusion in the compressed representations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed on a computing device, the method comprising: receiving an information item for presentation to a user; performing a lossy compression process on the information item, the lossy compression process comprising: extracting purposes from the information item, the purposes being selected from a restricted space of purposes; extracting topics from the information item, the topics being selected from a restricted topic vocabulary space; performing a ranking process on the extracted purposes and the extracted topics; based at least on the ranking process, identifying a selected purpose of the information item and a selected topic of the information item; and generating a compressed representation of the information item, the compressed representation comprising the selected purpose and the selected topic; and outputting the compressed representation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the information item is a conversational information item and the compressed representation is a natural language summary of the information item.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: predefining an enumerated list of purposes, wherein extracting the purposes comprises selecting the purposes from the enumerated list.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein extracting the purposes comprises: inputting the information item into one or more purpose detection models.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the information item is an email, the method further comprising: performing at least some training of the one or more purpose detection models on a first training data set annotated with speech acts, at least one of the speech acts mapping to a particular purpose on the enumerated list; and performing further training of the one or more purpose detection models on a second training data set comprising other emails that are annotated with purposes of the other emails.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein extracting the topics comprises: inputting the information item into one or more topic detection models.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the information item is an email, the method further comprising: performing at least some training of the one or more topic detection models on a first training data set comprising non-conversational information items having topical annotations; and performing further training of the one or more topic detection models on a second training data set comprising other emails that are annotated with topics of the other emails.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising: defining a topic vocabulary based at least on words present in the information item, wherein extracting the topics comprises using words from the topic vocabulary.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising: training a ranking model to perform the ranking process, the ranking process involving a joint ranking of at least the extracted purposes and the extracted topics.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: obtaining context information reflecting a current context of the user; and inputting the context information to the ranking model to perform the ranking process.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein, in at least one instance, the natural language summary comprises a single sentence reflecting a single purpose and a single topic identified by the ranking process.
12. The method of claim 2, further comprising: extracting a relationship between at least two information item participants; and including the relationship in the natural language summary of the information item.
13. The method of claim 2, further comprising: using a grammar to obtain the natural language summary given the selected purpose and the selected topic.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein generating the natural language summary comprises selecting the grammar from among multiple grammars based at least on a current context of the user.
15. A system comprising: a hardware processing unit; and a storage resource storing computer-readable instructions which, when executed by the hardware processing unit, cause the hardware processing unit to: receive a collection of conversational information items that reflect communication among a plurality of participants; extract one or more values from individual conversational information items of the collection; identify collection information associated with the collection of conversational information items; and using a predetermined grammar, generate a compressed representation of the collection based at least on the collection information and the one or more values extracted from the individual conversational information items.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more values extracted from the individual conversational information items include topics of the individual conversational information items.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the compressed representation of the collection is a single phrase or sentence summarizing the collection or phrase, wherein the single phrase or sentence reflects: at least one topical shift that occurs within the collection, at least one topic associated with a subgroup of participants in the collection, at least one topic associated with an identified expert participant, or an aggregate value representing a number of participants that agree with respect to at least one topic.
18. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform acts comprising: receiving one or more information items; performing a lossy compression process on the one or more information items, the lossy compression process comprising extracting values from the one or more information items and including the extracted values in an initial summary; outputting the initial summary to a user; receiving a user query responsive to the initial summary; based at least on the user query, re-ranking the values extracted during the lossy compression process; generating a refined summary based at least on the re-ranking; and outputting the refined summary to the user.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, the extracted values including topics of the one or more information items, the user query comprising a targeted query for more information on a specific topic, the acts further comprising: re-ranking the topics based at least on the specific topic of the targeted request; and generating the refined summary based at least on the re-ranking of the topics.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, the extracted values including topics and purposes of the one or more information items, the user query being a general request for more information, the acts further comprising: identifying remaining purposes and topics that are not included in the initial summary; and generating the refined summary from the remaining purposes and topics.
</claims>
</document>
