<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMARTHALURI, ABILASH
KANDASWAMY, VENKATESH
KRISHNAN, ABHINANDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731347
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CLASSIFICATION USING STRUCTURED AND UNSTRUCTURED ATTRIBUTES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods including one or more processing modules and one or more non-transitory storage modules storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processing modules and perform acts of receiving attribute data comprising a set of unstructured attribute data and a set of structured attribute data, analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, to obtain an unstructured semantic signature, analyzing the set of the structured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) layers, to obtain a structured semantic signature, analyzing the unstructured semantic signature and the structured semantic signature, and classifying the item in one or more item categories. Other embodiments are disclosed herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processors and perform acts of: receiving attribute data comprising text associated with an item, the attribute data comprising: (i) a set of unstructured attribute data for the item; and (ii) a set of structured attribute data for the item; analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, to obtain an unstructured semantic signature indicative of a probability that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on the set of unstructured attribute data; analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) layers, to obtain a structured semantic signature that is indicative of the likelihood that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on the set of structured attribute data; analyzing the unstructured semantic signature and the structured semantic signature by processing through one or more layers selected from a second set of one or more CNN layers and a first set of bidirectional LSTM layers, to obtain an item semantic signature that is indicative of the likelihood that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on both the set of unstructured attribute data and the set of structured attribute data; and classifying the item in one or more item categories in relation to the item semantic signature.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, comprises: thresholding unstructured attribute data in the set of unstructured attribute data based on a predetermined length; creating an embedded representation for the unstructured attribute data by processing the unstructured attribute data through an Embedding Layer; and processing the embedded representation to the first set of one or more LSTM layers.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of unstructured attribute data comprises one or more types of unstructured attribute data, and wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more LSTM layers, comprises: dividing the set of unstructured attribute data into two or more subsets based on an unstructured attribute data type; and processing at least two of the two or more subsets, separately from each other, through one or more LSTM layers in the first set of one or more LSTM layers, to obtain at least two unstructured data subset semantic signatures.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, further comprises: processing the at least two unstructured data subset semantic signatures through one or more LSTM layers of the first set of one or more LSTM layers, to obtain the unstructured semantic signature based on the set of unstructured attribute data.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the one or more types of unstructured attribute data comprise one or more of a title, a summary, or a detailed description of the item.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of structured attribute data comprises one or more structured attribute data names and one or more structured attribute data values, and wherein analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more CNN layers, comprises: generating a structured attribute data name string by concatenating the one or more structured attribute data names; generating a structured attribute data value string by concatenating the one or more structured attribute data values; processing the structured attribute data name string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers; and processing the structured attribute data value string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein processing the structured attribute data value string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers is based on a result obtained from processing the structured attribute data name string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein one or more of the one or more structured attribute data names for the item is indicative of the item brand.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more CNN layers, comprises: processing through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers that are capable of any one or more of: (i) analyzing the set of structured attribute data based on individual words in the set of structured attribute data; (ii) analyzing the set of structured attribute data based on combinations more words in the set of structured attribute data, or (ii) analyzing the set of structured attribute data to identify one or more words in the set of structured attribute data indicative of different item types.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising providing information for display of the item in relation to any one or more of (i) a selection by a user of the one or more item categories the item is classified in, and (ii) a search by a user for the one or more item categories the item is classified in.
11. A method being implemented via execution of computing instructions configured to run at one or more processors and configured to be stored at non-transitory computer-readable media, the method comprising: receiving attribute data comprising text associated with an item, the attribute data comprising: (i) a set of unstructured attribute data for the item; and (ii) a set of structured attribute data for the item; analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, to obtain an unstructured semantic signature indicative of a probability that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on the set of unstructured attribute data; analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through a first set of one or more Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) layers, to obtain a structured semantic signature that is indicative of the likelihood that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on the set of structured attribute data; analyzing the unstructured semantic signature and the structured semantic signature by processing through one or more layers selected from a second set of one or more CNN layers and a first set of bidirectional LSTM layers, to obtain an item semantic signature that is indicative of the likelihood that the item belongs to one or more item categories based on both the set of unstructured attribute data and the set of structured attribute data sets; and classifying the item in one or more item categories in relation to the item semantic signature.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, comprises: thresholding unstructured attribute data in the set of unstructured attribute data based on a predetermined length; creating an embedded representation for the unstructured attribute data by processing the unstructured attribute data through an Embedding Layer; and processing the embedded representation to the first set of one or more LSTM layers.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the set of unstructured attribute data comprises one or more types of unstructured attribute data, and wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more LSTM layers, comprises: dividing the set of unstructured attribute data into two or more subsets based on an unstructured attribute data type; and processing at least two of the two or more subsets, separately from each other, through one or more LSTM layers in the first set of one or more LSTM layers, to obtain at least two unstructured data subset semantic signatures.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein analyzing the set of unstructured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) layers, further comprises: processing the at least two unstructured data subset semantic signatures through one or more LSTM layers of the first set of one or more LSTM layers, to obtain the unstructured semantic signature based on the set of unstructured attribute data.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more types of unstructured attribute data comprise one or more of a title, a summary, or a detailed description of the item.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the set of structured attribute data comprises one or more structured attribute data names and one or more structured attribute data values, and wherein analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more CNN layers, comprises: generating a structured attribute data name string by concatenating the one or more structured attribute data names; generating a structured attribute data value string by concatenating the one or more structured attribute data values; processing the structured attribute data name string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers; and processing the structured attribute data value string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein processing the structured attribute data value string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers is based on a result obtained from processing the structured attribute data name string through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein one or more of the one or more structured attribute data names for the item is indicative of the item brand.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing the set of structured attribute data by processing through the first set of one or more CNN layers, comprises: processing through one or more CNN layers of the first set of one or more CNN layers that are capable of any one or more of: (i) analyzing the set of structured attribute data based on individual words in the set of structured attribute data; (ii) analyzing the set of structured attribute data based on combinations more words in the set of structured attribute data, or (ii) analyzing the set of structured attribute data to identify one or more words in the set of structured attribute data indicative of different item types.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising providing information for display of the item in relation to any one or more of (i) a selection by a user of the one or more item categories the item is classified in, and (ii) a search by a user for the one or more item categories the item is classified in.
</claims>
</document>
