<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/07,G06F11/14,G06F11/34,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DINH, HUNG
KUMAR, VINOD
KOMMANA, CHAKRADHAR
THAKKAR, JATIN KAMLESH
MOHAMMED, TOUSIF
SYED, SABU
RATHINAVELU, MANIKANDAN PAMMAL
JOSHI, ABHISHEK
ALLAKA, VENKAT
THAKUR, ANU BALA
MAXI, JOHN K.
CHILIPI, MADHUSUDHANA REDDY
K R, JYOTHI
KOLLU, REDDEPPA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838006
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TIME SERIES FORECASTING CLASSIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method is disclosed including: obtaining one or more values of a system metric, the system metric being associated with a hardware resource of a computing device; detecting whether the system metric is approaching a threshold, the threshold being associated with a key performance indicator (KPI) of the computing device, the detecting being performed based on the obtained values of the system metric; calculating a predicted value of the system metric in response to detecting that the system metric is approaching the threshold, the predicted value of the system metric being calculated by using a linear predictor that is trained using unevenly-sampled training data; detecting whether the predicted value of the system metric exceeds the threshold; and reconfiguring the computing device to prevent the system metric from reaching the predicted value in response to detecting that the predicted value exceeds the threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining one or more values of a system metric, the system metric being associated with a hardware resource of a computing device; detecting whether the system metric is approaching a threshold, the threshold being associated with a key performance indicator (KPI) of the computing device, the detecting being performed based on the obtained values of the system metric; calculating a predicted value of the system metric in response to detecting that the system metric is approaching the threshold, the predicted value of the system metric being calculated by using a linear predictor that is trained using unevenly-sampled training data; detecting whether the predicted value of the system metric exceeds the threshold; and reconfiguring the computing device to prevent the system metric from reaching the predicted value in response to detecting that the predicted value exceeds the threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising; receiving the unevenly sampled training data; calculating an upper envelope of the unevenly-sampled training data; and training the linear predictor based on the upper envelope.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the unevenly-sampled training data is obtained from one or more logs that are generated at least in part by the computing device, and the KPI of the computing device includes response time of at least one thread that is executed on the computing device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating the threshold based on a model that maps each of a plurality of values of the system metric to a respective value of the KPI, such that the threshold maximizes a difference between a mean of KPI values above the threshold and a mean of KPI values below the threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the linear predictor includes a Stochastic Gradient Descent model.
6. The method of claim 1, Wherein the system resource includes random-access memory (RAM) of the computing device, and reconfiguring the computing device includes restarting the computing device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the system resource includes non-volatile memory of the computing device, and reconfiguring the computing device includes copying data stored in the non-volatile memory of the computing device to another computing device.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operatively coupled to the memory, the at least one processor being configured to perform the operations of: obtaining one or more values of a system metric, the system metric being associated with a hardware resource of a computing device; detecting whether the system metric is approaching a threshold, the threshold being associated with a key performance indicator (KPI) of the computing device, the detecting being performed based on the obtained values of the system metric; calculating a predicted value of the system metric in response to detecting that the system metric is approaching the threshold, the predicted value of the system metric being calculated by using a linear predictor that is trained using unevenly-sampled training data; detecting whether the predicted value of the system metric exceeds the threshold; and reconfiguring the computing device to prevent the system metric from reaching the predicted value in response to detecting that the predicted value exceeds the threshold.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform the operations of: receiving the unevenly-sampled training data; calculating an upper envelope of the unevenly-sampled training data; and training the linear predictor based on the upper envelope.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein: the unevenly-sampled training data is obtained from one or more logs that are generated at least in part by the computing device, and the KPI of the computing device includes response time of at least one thread that is executed on the computing device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform the operation of calculating the threshold based on a model that maps each of a plurality of values of the system metric to a respective value of the KPI, such that the threshold maximizes a difference between a mean of KPI values above the threshold and a mean of KPI values below the threshold.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the linear predictor includes a Stochastic Gradient Descent model.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the system resource includes random-access memory (RAM) of the computing device, and reconfiguring the computing device includes restarting the computing device.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the system resource includes non-volatile memory of the computing device, and reconfiguring the computing device includes copying data stored in the non-volatile memory of the computing device to another computing device.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing one or more processor-executable instructions which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform the operations of: obtaining one or more values of a system metric, the system metric being associated with a hardware resource of a computing device; detecting whether the system metric is approaching a threshold, the threshold being associated with a key performance indicator (KPI) of the computing device, the detecting being performed based on the obtained values of the system metric; calculating a predicted value of the system metric in response to detecting that the system metric is approaching the threshold, the predicted value of the system metric being calculated by using a linear predictor that is trained using unevenly-sampled training data; detecting whether the predicted value of the system metric exceeds the threshold; and reconfiguring the computing device to prevent the system metric from reaching the predicted value in response to detecting that the predicted value exceeds the threshold.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more processor-executable instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to perform the operations of: receiving the unevenly-sampled training data; calculating an upper envelope of the unevenly-sampled training data; and training the linear predictor based on the upper envelope.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein: the unevenly-sampled training data is obtained from one or more logs that are generated at least in part by the computing device, and the KPI of the computing device includes response time of at least one thread that is executed on the computing device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further comprising calculating the threshold based on a model that maps each of a plurality of values of the system metric to a respective value of the KPI, such that the threshold maximizes a difference between a mean of KPI values above the threshold and a mean of KPI values below the threshold.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the linear predictor includes a Stochastic Gradient Descent model,
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the system resource includes random-access memory (RAM) of the computing device, and reconfiguring the computing device includes restarting the computing device.
</claims>
</document>
