<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L15/02,G10L15/16,G10L15/22,G10L25/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
D5AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, JAMES, K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63856863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-STAGE MACHINE LEARNING AND RECOGNITION
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-stage machine learning and recognition system comprises multiple individual machine learning systems arranged in multiple stages, where data is passed from a machine learning system in one stage to one or more machine learning systems in a subsequent, higher-level stage of the structure according to the logic of the machine learning system. The multi-stage machine learning system can be arranged in a final stage and one or more non-final stages, where the one or more non-final stages direct data generally towards a selected one or more machine learning systems within the final stage, but less than all of the machine learning systems in the final stage. The multi-stage machine learning system can additionally include a learning coach and data management system, which is configured to control the distribution of data throughout the multi-stage structure of machine learning systems by observing the internal state of the structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning recognition system comprising: a final stage comprising N final-stage machine learning classifiers, wherein N>1, and wherein each of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers is for classifying a data input to a classification output; and at least one non-final stage, wherein each of the at least one non-final stages comprises one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers that assigns each data input to one or more of, and less than N of, the N final-stage machine learning classifiers.
2. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers assigns a data input to one and only one of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers.
3. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein each of one or more one machine learning, data assignment classifiers assign each data input to the one or more of, and less than N of, the N final-stage machine learning classifiers that the machine learning, data assignment classifier determines will classify the data input correctly.
4. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein: the at least one non-final stage comprises a first non-final stage and a second non-final stage; the first non-final stage comprises a first machine learning data classifier; the second non-final stage comprises M second stage machine learning classifiers, where M>1; the first machine learning data classifier of the first non-final stage classifies each data input to one or more of, and less than M of, the M second stage machine learning classifiers of the second non-final stage; and each of the M second stage machine learning classifiers of the second non-final stage classifies each data input to it to one or more of, and less than N of, the N final-stage machine learning classifiers of the final stage.
5. The machine learning recognition system of claim 4, wherein: each of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers has a first machine learning architecture; each of the M second stage machine learning classifiers has a second machine learning architecture; and the first machine learning architecture of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers is different from the second machine learning architecture of the M second stage machine learning classifiers.
6. The machine learning recognition system of claim 4, wherein at least two of the M second stage machine learning classifiers having different machine learning architectures
7. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein at least two of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers having different machine learning architectures.
8. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, further comprising a learning coach machine learning system that distributes data throughout the final stage and the at least one non-final stage based on observations about internal states of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers and the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers.
9. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, further comprising a learning coach machine learning system that, using machine learning, learns an enhancement to at least one of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers and the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers.
10. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein each of one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers is trained through supervised training to assign a data input to one or more of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers that the machine learning, data assignment classifier determines is likely to classify the data input correctly.
11. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers is trained to perform the same classifications as the N final-stage machine learning classifiers.
12. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein: the final stage has T different classification categories, such that T<N; each of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers classify a data input to an ordered set of classification categories based on ranking of classification of the data input to the T different classification categories.
13. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein: metadata are associated with each data input item; and the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers assigns each data input to the one or more of, and less than N of, the N final-stage machine learning classifiers based in part on the metadata.
14. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein: the non-final stage comprises a plurality P of machine learning, data assignment classifiers; each of the P machine learning, data assignment classifiers is located at a separate physical location; and the N final-stage machine learning classifiers are connected to the P machine learning, data assignment classifiers by a data switching network.
15. The machine learning recognition system of claim 14, wherein the data switching network comprises a packet-switched network.
16. The machine learning recognition system of claim 14, wherein: the N final-stage machine learning classifiers are distributed across two or more geographically distributed sites; each of the two or more geographically distributed sites comprises one or more inactive final-stage machine learning classifiers; the N final-stage machine learning classifiers are stored in primary computer memory; and the inactive final-stage machine learning classifiers are stored in secondary computer memory.
17. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning recognition system comprises a speech recognition system.
18. The machine learning recognition system of claim 17, wherein the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers of the at least one non-final stage comprises a phonetic feature classifier.
19. The machine learning recognition system of claim 18, wherein the phonetic feature classifier comprises a multi-layer neural network trained as a phonetic-feature-based phoneme recognizer.
20. The machine learning recognition system of claim 17, wherein the one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers of the at least one non-final stage comprises a decision tree for recognition of syllables or words.
21. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein the N final-stage machine learning classifiers are image classifiers.
22. The machine learning recognition system of claim 1, wherein the N final-stage machine learning classifiers are speech recognition classifiers.
23. A speech recognition system comprising: an acoustic model machine learning classifier, wherein the acoustic model machine learning classifier comprises: a final stage comprising N1 final-stage machine learning classifiers, wherein N1>1, and wherein each of the N1 final-stage machine learning classifiers is for classifying a data input to a classification output; and at least one stage non-final stage, wherein each of the at least one non-final stages comprises one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers that assigns each data input to one or more of, and less than N1 of, the N1 final-stage machine learning classifiers of the acoustic model machine learning classifier; and a contextual model machine learning classifier, wherein the contextual model machine learning classifier comprises: a final stage comprising N2 final-stage machine learning classifiers, wherein N2>1, and wherein each of the N2 final-stage machine learning classifiers is for classifying a data input to a classification output; and at least one stage non-final stage, wherein each of the at least one non-final stages comprises one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers that assigns each data input to one or more of, and less than N2 of, the N2 final-stage machine learning classifiers of the contextual model machine learning classifier.
24. The speech recognition system of claim 23, wherein the data inputs are spectrograms.
25. The speech recognition system of claim 23, wherein the data inputs are phonemes.
26. A computer system for a machine learning classifier, the computer system comprising a plurality of servers, wherein each of the servers comprises a plurality of processing cores, such that: a first set of cores executes one or more programs to implement a final stage comprising N final-stage machine learning classifiers, wherein N>1, and wherein each of the N final-stage machine learning classifiers is for classifying a data input to a classification output; and a second set of cores executes one or more programs to implement at least one non-final stage, wherein each of the at least one non-final stages comprises one or more machine learning, data assignment classifiers that assigns each data input to one or more of, and less than N of, the N final-stage machine learning classifiers.
27. The computer system of claim 26, wherein the processing cores comprise GPU cores.
28. The computer system of claim 26, wherein the processing cores comprise processing cores of an AI accelerator.
</claims>
</document>
