<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANGAD, SUNIL R.
KASU, PRAVEEN KUMAR
Desai, Akashkumar V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917017
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPLICATION FAULT DETECTION AND FORECASTING
</title>

<abstract>
An application monitoring device that includes a memory operable to store an application and a fault detection engine implemented by a processor. The fault detection engine is configured to obtain a set of application metric values for the application. Each application metric value indicates a performance level of the application. The fault detection engine is further configured to compare each application metric value to a set of application metric value ranges and to determine a performance status value for each application metric value based on the comparison. The fault detection engine is further configured to determine a warning level for the application and to determine that the warning level exceeds the fault detection threshold value. The fault detection engine is further configured to trigger an alert indicating a fault has been detected in the application in response to the determination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An application monitoring device, comprising: a memory operable to store an application; and a fault detection engine implemented by a processor operably coupled to the memory, configured to: obtain a set of application metric values for the application, wherein each application metric value indicates a performance level of the application; compare each application metric value to a set of application metric value ranges, wherein each application metric value range corresponds with a different performance status value; determine a performance status value for each application metric value based on the comparison; determine a warning level for the application, wherein the warning level is equal to a number of performance status values that exceed a warning threshold value; compare the warning level to a fault detection threshold value; determine that the warning level exceeds the fault detection threshold value; and trigger an alert indicating a fault has been detected in the application in response to the determination.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the set of application metric values comprises: an output volume for the application; a number of errors for the application; and a response time for the application.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein obtaining the set of application metric values comprises measuring the set of application metric values at predetermined time intervals.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein each application metric value range identifies values within a predetermined number of standard deviations away from an average application metric value over time.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein: the set of application metric value ranges are based on the previous operation of the application over time; and the set of application metric value ranges are uniquely associated with the application.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the alert identifies a fault type for the fault in the application.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein triggering the alert suspends the execution of the application.
8. An application fault detection method, comprising: obtaining, by a fault detection engine implemented by a processor, a set of application metric values for an application, wherein each application metric value indicates a performance level of the application; comparing, by the fault detection engine, each application metric value to a set of application metric value ranges, wherein each application metric value range corresponds with a different performance status value; determining, by the fault detection engine, a performance status value for each application metric value based on the comparison; determining, by the fault detection engine, a warning level for the application, wherein the warning level is equal to a number of performance status values that exceed a warning threshold value; comparing, by the fault detection engine, the warning level to a fault detection threshold value; determining, by the fault detection engine, that the warning level exceeds the fault detection threshold value; and triggering, by the fault detection engine, an alert indicating a fault has been detected in the application in response to the determination.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of application metric values comprises: an output volume for the application; a number of errors for the application; and a response time for the application.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein obtaining the set of application metric values comprises measuring the set of application metric values at predetermined time intervals.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein each application metric value range identifies values within a predetermined number of standard deviations away from an average application metric value over time.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein: the set of application metric value ranges are based on the previous operation of the application over time; and the set of application metric value ranges are uniquely associated with the application.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the alert identifies a fault type for the fault in the application.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein triggering the alert suspends the execution of the application.
15. A computer program comprising executable instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a processor causes the processor to: obtain a set of application metric values for an application, wherein each application metric value indicates a performance level of the application; compare each application metric value to a set of application metric value ranges, wherein each application metric value range corresponds with a different performance status value; determine a performance status value for each application metric value based on the comparison; determine a warning level for the application, wherein the warning level is equal to a number of performance status values that exceed a warning threshold value; compare the warning level to a fault detection threshold value; determine that the warning level exceeds the fault detection threshold value; and trigger an alert indicating a fault has been detected in the application in response to the determination.
16. The computer program of claim 15, wherein the set of application metric values comprises: an output volume for the application; a number of errors for the application; and a response time for the application.
17. The computer program of claim 15, wherein obtaining the set of application metric values comprises measuring the set of application metric values at predetermined time intervals.
18. The computer program of claim 15, wherein each application metric value range identifies values within a predetermined number of standard deviations away from an average application metric value over time.
19. The computer program of claim 15, wherein: the set of application metric value ranges are based on the previous operation of the application over time; and the set of application metric value ranges are uniquely associated with the application.
20. The computer program of claim 15, wherein triggering the alert suspends the execution of the application.
</claims>
</document>
