<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/0478,A61B5/048,A61B5/0482,A61B5/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WITFIT, Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAU, MICHAEL P.H.
McLoughlin, Gráinne Máire
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017671
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MENTAL FITNESS ASSESSMENT SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING PHYSIOLOGIC SIGNAL INPUTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for assessing a mental fitness state of a person using objective physiologic signals from the person includes arranging one or more sensors in proximity to the person's head to measure at least one electroencephalogram (EEG) signal of the person, and analyzing the at least one EEG signal by computing a power in the EEG signal in an EEG signal band; determining a characteristic of the computed power that, for the EEG signal band, is indicative of an emotional or cognitive state of the person; and assessing a mental fitness state of the person based on the determined characteristic. An assessment output is generated which reports the assessed mental fitness state of the person. In at least one implementation, the EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves, and a variance in timing of maximum power occurring in the theta waves around a determined average latency is calculated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assessing a mental fitness state of a person using objective physiologic signals from the person, comprising: arranging one or more sensors in proximity to the person's head to measure at least one electroencephalogram (EEG) signal of the person; analyzing the at least one EEG signal by: computing a power in the EEG signal in an EEG signal band; determining a characteristic of the computed power that, for the EEG signal band, is indicative of an emotional or cognitive state of the person; and assessing a mental fitness state of the person based on the determined characteristic; and generating an assessment output that reports the assessed mental fitness state of the person.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz, and wherein determining the characteristic of the computed power includes: identifying a timing of maximum power occurring in each theta wave of multiple theta waves; determining an average latency of occurrence of the maximum power in the theta waves with respect to onset of the theta waves using the identified timing of the maximum power in each theta wave; and calculating a variance in the timing of the maximum power in the theta waves around the determined average latency.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: administering a cognitive task for the person to perform while the one or more sensors measure the at least one EEG signal; measuring reaction times of the person while performing the cognitive task; and determining a relationship of the measured reaction times with the onset of the theta waves.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising implementing a machine learning process that uses historical measured EEG signals and decision outcomes of the person as inputs in a feedback loop to improve accuracy of calculating the variance in the timing of the maximum power in the theta waves.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering a cognitive task for the person to perform while the one or more sensors measure the at least one EEG signal of the person, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz, and wherein determining the characteristic of the computed power includes: determining a maximum power occurring in each theta wave of multiple theta waves; and using a variance in the amount of the maximum power in the multiple theta waves as the determined characteristic.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz and oscillating alpha waves in a frequency range of 8-13 Hz, and wherein analyzing the at least one EEG signal includes: computing a power in the theta waves and a power in the alpha waves; determining the characteristic of the computed power based on a comparison of the power in the theta waves with the power in the alpha waves; and assessing the mental fitness state of the person based on an extent to which power in the theta waves is greater than power in the alpha waves.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains alpha waves in a frequency range of 8-13 Hz, and wherein analyzing the at least one EEG signal includes: computing power in alpha waves that originate in a left frontal region of the person's head and a power in alpha waves that originate in a right frontal region of the person's head; and determining the characteristic of the computed power based on a comparison of the power in the alpha waves originating in the left frontal region with the power in the alpha waves originating in the right frontal region.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the assessment output further includes guiding the person in a decision-making process that involves multiple binary decisions constructed in a decision tree, and assessing the mental fitness state of the person at each decision of the multiple binary decisions.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising optimizing a decision-making process by the person by providing the assessment output to the person as a neuro-feedback to guide the person to decrease the person's emotional influence on the decision-making process.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the EEG signal band includes theta and alpha frequency bands, the method further comprising optimizing cognitive control in the person by using activity in the theta and alpha frequency bands, and a relationship between the activity in the theta and alpha frequency bands, to infer a cognitive state of the person including attention, concentration, and/or memory.
11. A system for assessing a mental fitness state of a person using objective physiologic signals from the person, comprising: one or more sensors arrangeable in proximity to the person's head to measure at least one electroencephalogram (EEG) signal of the person; and a computational device configured to analyze the at least one EEG signal by: computing a power in the EEG signal in an EEG signal band; determining a characteristic of the computed power that, for the EEG signal band, is indicative of an emotional or cognitive state of the person; and assessing a mental fitness state of the person based on the determined characteristic, wherein the computational device is further configured to generate an assessment output that reports the assessed mental fitness state of the person.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz, and wherein the computational device is configured to determine the characteristic of the computed power by: identifying a timing of maximum power occurring in each theta wave of multiple theta waves; determining an average latency of occurrence of the maximum power in the theta waves with respect to onset of the theta waves using the identified timing in each theta wave; and calculating a variance in the timing of the maximum power in the theta waves around the determined average latency.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the computational device is further configured to: administer a cognitive task for the person to perform while the one or more sensors measure the at least one EEG signal; measure reaction times of the person while performing the cognitive task; and determine the onset of the theta waves based on the measured reaction times.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the computational device implements a machine learning process using historical measured EEG signals and decision outcomes of the person in a feedback loop to improve accuracy of calculating the variance in the timing of the maximum power in the theta waves.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the computational device is further configured to administer a cognitive task for the person to perform while the one or more sensors measure the at least one EEG signal, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz, and wherein the computational device is configured to determine the characteristic of the computed power by: determining a maximum power occurring in each theta wave of multiple theta waves; and using a variance in the amount of the maximum power in the multiple theta waves as the determined characteristic.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains oscillating theta waves in a frequency range between 4-8 Hz and oscillating alpha waves in a frequency range of 8-13 Hz, and wherein the computational device is configured to analyze the at least one EEG signal by: computing a power in the theta waves and a power in the alpha waves; determining the characteristic of the computed power based on a comparison of the power in the theta waves and the power in the alpha waves; and assessing the mental fitness state of the person based on an extent to which power in the theta waves is greater than power in the alpha waves.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one EEG signal contains alpha waves in a frequency range of 8-13 Hz, and wherein the computational device is configured to analyze the at least one EEG signal by: computing a power in alpha waves that originate in a left frontal region of the person's head and a power in alpha waves that originate in a right frontal region of the person's head; and determining the characteristic of the computed power based on a comparison of the power in the alpha waves originating in the left frontal region with the power in the alpha waves originating in the right frontal region.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more sensors include at least one contact or non-contact sensor that is embedded in a wearable hat or headset, and wherein in the case of a non-contact sensor, the non-contact sensor measures the at least one EEG signal without a conductive medium coupling the sensor to the person's head.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more sensors are arranged over the frontal and/or midline regions of the person's head.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the computational device is further configured to guide the person in a decision-making process that involves multiple binary decisions constructed in a decision tree, and assess the mental fitness state of the person at each decision of the multiple binary decisions.
21. The system of claim 11, wherein the EEG signal band includes theta and alpha frequency bands, and wherein the computational device is configured to optimize cognitive control in the person by using activity in the theta and alpha frequency bands, and a relationship between the activity in the theta and alpha frequency bands, to infer a cognitive state of the person including attention, concentration, and/or memory.
22. The system of claim 11, wherein the computational device is further configured to optimize a decision-making process by the person by providing the assessment output to the person as a neuro-feedback to guide the person to decrease the person's emotional influence on the decision-making process.
</claims>
</document>
