<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROBICHAUD, JEAN-PHILIPPE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60162258
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital Assistant Extension Automatic Ranking and Selection
</title>

<abstract>
Representative embodiments disclose mechanisms to automatically rank and select extensions triggered in a digital assistant. A sample set of extensions are executed against a set of curated queries in order to extract a set of features and/or statistics. The system trains a machine learning model based on the features and/or statistics to rank and select extensions based on their response to a query, New extension incorporated into the system are executed against a second set of curated queries to obtain a set of extracted features and/or statistics which are saved for use at runtime. At runtime, a query phrase received by the system triggers one or more tasks from extensions. Extracted features for the triggered extensions are combined with stored features/statistics and at least a subset of the results presented to the trained ranking and selection model. The model ranks and selects appropriate tasks which are presented to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for selecting and ranking service extensions, comprising: receiving a query from a user or an inference related to a user; identifying a set of activatable bots in response to the query or inference based on information previously gathered on the set of activatable bots; extracting a set of features from or about each activatable bot, at least a portion of the set of features being pre-calculated; associating a ranking score with each bot by presenting the corresponding set of features to a machine learning model previously trained based on a profile of the activatable bot; placing the activated bot in rank order compared to other activated bots to create a ranked list of bots; selecting at least one bot from the ranked list of bots; and presenting an output of at least one bot to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the profile is based on evaluating the bot using a set of curated queries.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the profile is based upon a dialog comprising a series of interactions with the activatable bot.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the profile further comprises security checks made prior to deployment of the activatable bot.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of features comprises at least one of: features extracted from results of a language understanding model; features extracted from how well a conversation progress under a hypothesis that a specific response is accepted and presented to the user; features extracted from statistics collected for models used by tasks activities of the activated bot; features extracted from an activatable bot configuration; and features extracted from an input source.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving a set of curated queries; executing the set of curated queries against a submitted bot; gathering a set of features characterizing the submitted bot response to the set of curated queries; and building the profile based on the set of features.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of features further comprises at least one of: a correlation metric between a language understanding model of a bot and a built-in language understanding model; a list of tasks that the bot handles; and at least one metric describing at least one query that causes the bot to trigger.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: extracting from the submitted bot a set of features comprising tasks handled by the bot.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: identifying a set of positive trigger examples or a set of negative trigger examples or both based on the submitted bot response to the set of curated queries.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of features comprises both pre-calculated features and features identified at run-time.
9. A computing system comprising: a processor and executable instructions accessible on a machine-readable medium that, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving a query from a user or an inference related to the user; identifying a set of activatable bots in response to the query or inference based on information previously gathered on at least a portion of the set of activatable bots; extracting a set of features from or about each activatable bot, at least a portion of the set of features being pre-calculated; associating a ranking score with each bot by presenting the corresponding set of features to a machine learning model previously trained based on a profile of the activatable bot; placing the activatable bots in rank order compared to other activatable bots; selecting at least one bot from the ranked bots; and presenting an output of the at least one bot to the user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the set of features comprises features corresponding to the activatable bots in the context of other activatable bots.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the set of features comprises at least one of: a confidence score of a language understanding model; an indicator of entities detected by the language understanding model; a confidence score distribution; a frequency of triggering on top of an existing intent; an indicator of the type of queries that cause triggering; a correlation metric between a language understanding model of a bot and a built-in language understanding model; a list of tasks that the bot handles; and at least one metric describing at least one query that causes the bot to become activatable.
12. The system of claim 9, further comprising building the profile of the activatable bot at least in part using security checks.
13. The system of claim 9, further comprising: retrieving a set of curated queries; executing the set of curated queries against a submitted bot; gathering a set of features characterizing the submitted bot response to the set of curated queries; and building the profile based on the set of features.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: extracting from the submitted bot a set of features comprising tasks handled by the bot.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising: identifying a set of positive trigger examples or a set of negative trigger examples or both based on the submitted bot response to the set of curated queries.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the curated queries comprise a set of queries which together represent a dialog with the activatable bot.
17. A machine-readable medium having executable instructions encoded thereon, which, when executed by at least one processor of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: train a ranking and response selection model by performing operations comprising: identifying a set of representative bots; identifying a training set of curated queries; and using a machine learning process, creating the ranking and response selection model from the set of represented bots and the training set of curated queries; receiving a query from a user or an inference related to the user; identifying a set of activatable bots in response to the query or inference based on information previously gathered on at least a portion of the set of activatable bots; extracting a set of features from or about each activatable bot, at least a portion of the set of features being pre-calculated; associating a ranking score with each bot by presenting the corresponding set of features to the ranking and response selection model; placing the activatable bots in rank order compared to other activatable bots; selecting at least one bot from the ranked bots; and presenting an output of the at least one bot to the user.
18. The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the curated queries comprise a set of queries which together represent a dialog with the activatable bot.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein each activatable bot undergoes a set of security checks prior to deployment.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the set of features comprises both pre-calculated features and features identified at run-time.
</claims>
</document>
