<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B29C35/02,B29C70/30,B29C70/54,B64F5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
The Aurora Flight Sciences Corporation, a subsidiary of The Boeing Company
</assignee>

<inventors>
Wen, Edward Albert
Hughes, Josiah
Mahon, Michelle
Kuruppuarachchige, Chathuranga
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101745
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-CELL HEATING BLANKETS THAT FACILITATE COMPOSITE FABRICATION AND REPAIR
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for curing a composite part. The method includes the steps of: disposing a heat blanket at a composite material; applying, with a controller, power to heaters distributed across multiple cells of a heat blanket to heat the composite material at the heat blanket; monitoring, with the controller, a temperature of the composite material at each of the multiple cells via thermocouples distributed across the multiple cells; and individually adjusting, with the controller, an amount of power applied to the heaters, for each of the multiple cells, in response to the monitored temperature and a target temperature.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for curing a composite part, the method comprising, the steps of: applying a heat blanket to a composite material; applying, with a controller, power to heaters distributed across multiple cells of a heat blanket to heat the composite material at the heat blanket; monitoring, with the controller, a temperature of the composite material at each of the multiple cells via thermocouples distributed across the multiple cells; and individually adjusting, with the controller, an amount of power applied to heaters, for each of the multiple cells, in response to the monitored temperature and a target temperature.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein: the target temperature is a range of temperatures that includes a curing temperature of a thermoset resin.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of: adjusting the amount of power comprises selectively adjusting between decreasing power applied to the heater in the cell in response to determining that a cell temperature is higher than the target temperature, and increasing power applied to the heater in the cell in response to determining that the cell temperature is lower than the target temperature.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: selecting a temperature profile indicating a target temperature for each of the multiple cells, wherein target temperatures vary between cells.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein: the target temperatures in the temperature profile vary over time.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting from one of multiple temperature profiles that each indicate a series of target temperatures, times, and ramp rates for heating the composite material, wherein the selection is based on a type fiber-reinforced material being heated.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein: adjusting the amount of power comprises adjusting the amount of power selectively between: reducing the amount of power applied to the heater in the cell if the fiber-reinforced material is increasing in temperature faster than the ramp rate; and increasing the amount of power applied to the heater in the cell if the fiber-reinforced material is increasing in temperature faster than the ramp rate.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing reinforcement learning to train how power is adjusted, wherein during the reinforcement learning an agent performs actions by independently adjusting amounts of current applied to heaters in individual cells of the heat blanket.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein: monitoring and adjusting power for each of the multiple cells is performed simultaneously in real-time.
10. 10.-11. (canceled)
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying programmed instructions which, when executed by a processor, are operable for performing a method for curing a composite part, the method comprising: applying a heat blanket to a composite material; applying, with a controller, power to heaters distributed across multiple cells of a heat blanket to heat a composite material at the heat blanket; monitoring, with the controller, a temperature of the composite material at each of the multiple cells via thermocouples distributed across the multiple cells; and individually adjusting, with the controller, an amount of power applied to heaters, for each of the multiple cells, in response to the monitored temperature and a target temperature.
13. The medium of claim 12 wherein: the target temperature is a range that includes a curing temperature of a thermoset resin.
14. The medium of claim 12 wherein: adjusting the amount of power comprises selectively adjusting between decreasing power applied to the heater in the cell in response to determining that a cell temperature is higher than the target temperature, and increasing power applied to the heater in the cell in response to determining that the cell temperature is lower than the target temperature.
15. The medium of claim 14 wherein the method further comprises: selecting a temperature profile indicating a target temperature for each of the multiple cells, wherein target temperatures vary between cells.
16. The medium of claim 15 wherein: the target temperatures in the temperature profile vary over time.
17. The medium of claim 12 wherein the method further comprises: selecting from one of multiple temperature profiles that each indicate a series of target temperatures, times, and ramp rates for heating the composite material, wherein the selection is based on a type of fiber-reinforced material being heated.
18. The medium of claim 17 wherein: adjusting the amount of power comprises: reducing the amount of power applied to the heater in the cell if the fiber-reinforced material is increasing in temperature faster than the ramp rate; and increasing the amount of power applied to the heater in the cell if the fiber-reinforced material is increasing in temperature faster than the ramp rate.
19. The medium of claim 12 wherein the method further comprises: performing reinforcement learning to train how power is adjusted, wherein during the reinforcement learning an agent performs actions by independently adjusting amounts of current applied to heaters in individual cells of the heat blanket.
20. The medium of claim 12 wherein: monitoring and adjusting power for each of the multiple cells is performed simultaneously and in real-time.
21. 21.-22. (canceled)
23. A portion of an aircraft assembled according to the method defined by the instructions stored on the computer readable medium of claim 12.
24. An apparatus for curing a composite part, the apparatus comprising: a heat blanket comprising multiple cells, each of the multiple cells comprising: a heater; and a thermocouple; and a controller that applies power to heaters distributed across multiple cells of the heat blanket to heat a fiber-reinforced material, monitors a temperature of the fiber-reinforced material at each of the multiple cells via the thermocouples, and for each of the cells, adjusts an amount of power applied to a heater in the cell, based on whether a thermocouple in the cell indicates a target temperature has been reached, wherein the controller has been trained via reinforcement learning.
25. The apparatus of claim 24 wherein: the multiple cells are arranged in a pattern selected from the group consisting of: rectangular grids, hexagonal grids, and concentric circles.
26. 26.-28. (canceled)
29. Fabricating a portion of an aircraft using the apparatus of claim 24.
30. A method for fabricating a composite part, the method comprising: disposing a preform comprising a fiber-reinforced material impregnated with a thermoset resin onto a mandrel; applying a heat blanket over the preform; heating the preform; monitoring a temperature of the fiber-reinforced material at each of multiple cells within the heat blanket via thermocouples distributed across the multiple cells; and selectively applying power to heaters distributed across the multiple cells of the heat blanket to control local heating at the preform while the preform is heated, based upon a temperature at each of the multiple cells.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein: selectively applying power is performed by a controller that has been trained via reinforcement learning.
32. 32.-34. (canceled)
35. A portion of an aircraft assembled according to the method of claim 30.
</claims>
</document>
