<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Kronologic, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Allison, III, James Edward
Bollinger, Aaron Jay
Lee, Christopher Sean Anthony
Parker, Benjamin Duffy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456934
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT SCHEDULING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques described herein are directed to a scheduling platform configured to intelligently assign work to a representative of an organization. A representative may include an employee of the organization or other entity configured to receive work assignments from the organization, such as a contractor, or the like. The scheduling platform may determine a task to be performed (e.g., work assignments) and may identify one or more representatives associated with the task. The one or more representatives may include those available and/or qualified to perform the task. The scheduling platform may identify a representative of the one or more representatives to conduct the task and may cause an appointment for the task to be presented on a calendar at a computing device associated with the representative.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method, implemented at least in part by a service computing device, the method comprising: determining, by one or more processors, a task to be completed; identifying, by the one or more processors, a group of representatives of an organization associated with performing the task; determining, by the one or more processors, a representative of the group of representatives based at least in part on a scheduling model; and causing, by the one or more processors, an appointment for the task to be presented at a representative computing device associated with the representative, the appointment being presented on a calendar associated with the representative.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a task type associated with the task; and determining the scheduling model based at least in part on the task type associated with the task.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining performance scores associated with respective representatives of the group of representatives; and determining that a performance score associated with the representative is above a threshold, wherein determining the representative is based at least in part on the performance score being above the threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the task is associated with a contact; determining a time associated with the appointment; sending, to a contact computing device associated with the contact, an invitation for the appointment at the time; and receiving, from the contact computing device, an indication of acceptance of the invitation, wherein causing the appointment for the task to be presented at the representative computing device associated with the representative is based at least in part on the indication of acceptance of the invitation.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a computing device associated with an organization, task data associated with the task; and determining a time associated with the task, wherein determining the representative is based at least in part on the time associated with the task.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a first computing device associated with a first user, a request for the task to be completed; and determining a task type based at least in part on the request, wherein the group of representatives is identified based at least in part on task type.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing an organizational profile associated with the organization; determining that the organizational profile comprises the task to be completed during a time period; and determining that a current time is within a threshold time of the time period, wherein determining the task to be completed is based at least in part on the current time being within the threshold time of the time period.
8. A system comprising: one or more processors; and computer readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising: determining a task to be completed; identifying a group of representatives of an organization associated with performing the task; determining a representative of the group of representatives based at least in part on a performance score associated therewith; and causing an appointment for the task to be presented at a representative computing device associated with the representative, the appointment being presented on a calendar associated with the representative.
9. The system of claim 8, the operations further comprising: determining that the task is associated with a contact; determining a time associated with the appointment; sending, to a contact computing device associated with the contact, an invitation for the appointment at the time; and receiving, from the contact computing device, an indication of acceptance of the invitation, wherein causing the appointment for the task to be presented at the representative computing device associated with the representative is based at least in part on the indication of acceptance of the invitation.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the representative of the group of representatives comprises: determining historical performance data associated with the group of representatives; determining, based on the historical performance data, respective performance scores associated with respective representatives of the group of representatives; and determining that a first performance score associated with the representative is greater than a second performance score associated with another representative of the group of representatives.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein identifying the group of representatives comprises: determining historical performance data corresponding to representatives associated with the organization; determining, based on the historical performance data, respective performance scores associated with respective representatives associated with the organization; and determining that one or more performance scores associated with one or more representatives is equal to or greater than a threshold performance score, wherein the group of representatives comprises the one or more representatives having associated therewith one or more performance scores that are equal to or greater than the threshold performance score.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein identifying the group of representatives is based at least in part on at least one of: a task type associated with the task; performance scores associated with representatives of the group of representatives; a scheduling model; a calendar availability associated with each representative of the group of representatives; or an organizational preference.
13. The system of claim 8, the operations further comprising: receiving, from a contact computing device associated with a contact, a request for the task to be completed; and determining a task type based at least in part on the request, wherein the group of representatives is identified based at least in part on task type.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein identifying the representative if further based at least in part on a scheduling model.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: determining a task to be completed; identifying a group of representatives of an organization associated with performing the task; determining a representative of the group of representatives based at least in part on at least one of a scheduling model or a performance score associated therewith; and causing an appointment for the task to be presented at a representative computing device associated with the representative, the appointment being presented on a calendar associated with the representative.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein determining the representative of the group of representatives comprises: determining historical performance data associated with the group of representatives; determining, based on the historical performance data, respective performance scores associated with respective representatives of the group of representatives; and determining that a first performance score associated with the representative is greater than a second performance score associated with another representative of the group of representatives.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, wherein identifying the group of representatives comprises: determining historical performance data corresponding to representatives associated with the organization; determining, based on the historical performance data, respective performance scores associated with respective representatives associated with the organization; and determining that one or more performance scores associated with one or more representatives is equal to or greater than a threshold performance score, wherein the group comprises the one or more representatives having associated therewith one or more performance scores that are equal to or greater than the threshold performance score.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving, from a contact computing device associated with a contact, a request for the task to be completed; and determining a task type based at least in part on the request, wherein the group of representatives is identified based at least in part on task type.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: accessing a database comprising an organizational profile associated with the organization; determining that the organizational profile comprises the task to be completed during a time period; and determining that a current time is within a threshold time of the time period, wherein determining the task to be completed is based at least in part on the current time being within the threshold time of the time period.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining that the task is associated with a contact; determining a time associated with the appointment; sending, to a contact computing device associated with the contact, an invitation for the appointment at the time; and receiving, from the contact computing device, an indication of acceptance of the invitation, wherein causing the appointment for the task to be presented at the representative computing device associated with the representative is based at least in part on the indication of acceptance of the invitation.
</claims>
</document>
