<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,G06F16/958,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DSTILLERY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANIEL-WEINER, REKA
REISZ, CLAUDIA
WHITE, AMELIA GRIEVE
WILLIAMS, MELINDA HAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947718
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING FOR IDENTIFICATION OF AUDIENCE SUBPOPULATIONS AND DIMENSIONALITY AND/OR SPARSENESS REDUCTION TECHNIQUES TO FACILITATE IDENTIFICATION OF AUDIENCE SUBPOPULATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer-implemented method that includes accessing behavioral data, such as web visitation data, of multiple users. A sparse behavioral vector can be defined for each user based on the behavioral data. Each element of each sparse behavioral vector can represent a different potential detectable behavior such that each sparse behavioral vector encodes the behavioral data for that user. Multiple supervised learning models to each sparse behavioral vector to densify the vectors, defining multiple dense behavioral vectors. An unsupervised machine learning technique can be applied to the dense behavioral vectors to cluster, or define subpopulations, based on similarities between the dense behavioral vectors. Delivery of targeted content to a user can be facilitated based on a dense behavioral vector associated with that user being associated with one or more of the clusters or subpopulations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing behavioral data associated with a plurality of users; defining a plurality of sparse behavioral vectors based on the behavioral data, each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors associated with a user from the plurality of users, each element of each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors representing a different potential detectable behavior from a set of potential detectable behaviors such that the behavioral data is encoded in the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors; densifying the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors by applying a plurality of supervised learning models to each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors to define a plurality of dense behavioral vectors; applying an unsupervised machine learning technique to the plurality of dense behavioral vectors to define a plurality of subpopulations based on similarities between dense behavioral vectors from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors; and facilitating delivery of targeted content to a user from the plurality of users based on a dense behavioral vector (1) from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors and (2) associated with that user being associated with a subpopulation from the plurality of subpopulations.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models is configured to predict whether a user from the plurality of users will perform a potential detectable behavior from the set of potential detectable behaviors based on a sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors and associated with that user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: densifying the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors includes, for each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors, scoring that sparse behavioral vector with each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models such that each element of a dense behavioral vector associated with that sparse behavioral vector is a score of that sparse behavioral vector according to a supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least a subset of the set of potential detectable behaviors are visits to websites.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a median sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors is at least 99.9% sparse.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of supervised learning models includes at least 500 supervised learning models.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the behavioral data is associated with a first time period; the plurality of users is a first plurality of users; the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors is a first plurality of sparse behavioral vectors associated with the first time period; the plurality of dense behavioral vectors is a first plurality of dense behavioral vectors associated with the first time period; and the plurality of subpopulations is a first plurality of subpopulations associated with the first time period, the method further comprising: accessing behavioral data associated with a second period of time and a second plurality of users, the first plurality of users and the second plurality of users having at least one common user; defining a second plurality of sparse behavioral vectors associated with the second plurality of users; densifying the second plurality of sparse behavioral vectors by applying the plurality of supervised learning models to each sparse behavioral vector from the second plurality of sparse behavioral vectors to define a second plurality of dense behavioral vectors; applying the unsupervised machine learning technique to the second plurality of dense behavioral vectors to define a second plurality of subpopulations based on similarities between dense behavioral vectors from the second plurality of dense behavioral vectors; compare a subpopulation from the second plurality of subpopulations to each subpopulation from the first plurality of subpopulations; determine that the subpopulation is a new subpopulation based on no corresponding subpopulation being identified in the first plurality of subpopulations; and facilitate the modification of the targeted content based on emergence of the new subpopulation.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the first time period and the second time period are mutually exclusive.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein there is no predefined concordance between any subpopulation from the first plurality of subpopulations and any subpopulation from the second plurality of subpopulations.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: applying a machine learning technique to the behavioral data to define associations between a plurality of websites represented in the behavioral data; defining an embedding of the plurality of websites in p-dimensional space based on the associations between the plurality of websites; identifying a plurality of clusters of websites based on proximity of websites from the plurality of websites to each other in the p-dimensional space identifying a plurality of target websites, each target website from the plurality of target websites characteristic of a cluster from the plurality of clusters; training the plurality of supervised learning models, each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models trained to predict a likelihood of a visit to a target website from the plurality of target websites.
11. A non-transitory processor-readable medium storing code configured to be executed by a processor, the code including instructions configured to cause the processor to: access a plurality of sparse behavioral vectors, each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors associated with a user from a plurality of users, the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors each having a plurality of elements, each element from the plurality of elements representing a different potential detectable behavior; apply a plurality of supervised learning models to the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors, each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models uniquely associated with a potential detectable behavior and configured to produce a score representing a probability that a user will perform that potential detectable behavior; define a plurality of dense behavioral vectors, each dense behavioral vector from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors associated with a user from the plurality of users, each element of each dense behavioral vector having a value derived from a score produced by a different supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models being applied to a sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors; apply an unsupervised machine learning technique to the plurality of dense behavioral vectors to define a plurality of subpopulations based on similarities between dense behavioral vectors from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors; and facilitate delivery of targeted content to a user from the plurality of users based on a dense behavioral vector (1) from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors and (2) associated with that user being associated with a subpopulation from the plurality of subpopulations.
12. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, wherein each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models is trained independently from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors.
13. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, wherein at least one supervised machine learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models is associated with a potential detectable behavior that no sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors indicates as being detected.
14. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, wherein: each element of each sparse behavioral vector has a binary value; and each element of each dense behavioral vector has a floating point value.
15. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, wherein each supervised learning model from the plurality of supervised learning models is configured to predict a likelihood that each user from the plurality of users will visit a different website, based on a sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors that is associated with that user.
16. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: receive website visitation data associated with each user from the plurality of users; and define the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors based on the website visitation data.
17. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 11, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: place each dense behavioral vector from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors in n-dimensional space based on distances between the plurality of dense behavioral vectors, the unsupervised machine learning technique applied to the plurality of dense behavioral vectors as they exist in the n-dimensional space to define the plurality of subpopulations.
18. A method, comprising: receiving website visitation data; applying a machine learning technique to the website visitation data to define associations between a plurality of websites represented in the website visitation data; defining an embedding of the plurality of websites in p-dimensional space based on the associations between the plurality of websites; identifying a plurality of clusters of websites based on proximity of websites from the plurality of websites to each other in the p-dimensional space; identifying a position of a user in the p-dimensional space based on website visitation data for the user; and facilitating delivery of targeted content to the user based on a cluster from the plurality of clusters nearest to the position of the user in the p-dimensional space.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein: the user is a first user from a plurality of users; identifying the position of the first user in the p-dimensional space includes defining a first dense behavioral vector having a length of p, the method further comprising: defining a plurality of sparse behavioral vectors based on the website visitation data, each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors associated with a user from the plurality of users represented in the website visitation data, each element of each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors representing a potential visitation to a website from the plurality of websites; defining, for each sparse behavioral vector from the plurality of sparse behavioral vectors, a dense behavioral vector by determining a position of that sparse behavioral vector in the embedding such that each dense behavioral vector from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors has a length of p; applying an unsupervised machine learning technique to the plurality of dense behavioral vectors to define a plurality of subpopulations based on similarities between dense behavioral vectors from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors; and facilitating delivery of targeted content to a user from the plurality of users based on a dense behavioral vector (1) from the plurality of dense behavioral vectors and (2) associated with that user at least one of (1) being associated with a subpopulation from the plurality of subpopulations or (2) a distance between the dense behavioral vector and a cluster from the plurality of clusters.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the website visitation data is associated with visitation data of a plurality of tracked users.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the website visitation data is associated with visitation data gathered by servers associated with at least a subset of websites from the plurality of websites.
22. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing a first plurality of website visitation records, each website visitation record from the first plurality website visitation records associated with a user device from a first plurality of user devices; generating a p-dimensional embedding of websites based on the first plurality website visitation records; accessing a plurality of conversion event data, the plurality of conversion event data associated with a second plurality website visitation records, the plurality of conversion event data indicating that a subset of the second plurality of user devices performed a conversion action, each website visitation record from the second plurality of website visitation records associated with a user device from a second plurality of user devices and indicating a plurality of websites visited by that user device; determining, for each website visitation record from the second plurality of website visitation records, a position of each website from the plurality of websites indicated in that website visitation record in the p-dimensional embedding; training a machine learning model, using the plurality of conversion event data and the position of each website from the plurality of websites indicated in each website visitation record from the plurality of website visitation records, to predict a likelihood of conversion given a position in the p-dimensional embedding; receive an indication that a user device is accessing a website, the user device not being from the first plurality of user devices or the second plurality of user devices; determine the position of the website in the p-dimensional embedding; facilitating delivery of targeted content to the user device based on predicting, using the machine learning model, a likelihood of whether the user device will perform a conversion action based on the position of the website in the p-dimensional embedding.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein the second plurality of website visitation records includes a portion of the first plurality of website visitation records.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein website visitation records associated with the user device are not available.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 22, wherein the likelihood of whether the user device will perform the conversion action is predicted without evaluating content associated with the website.
</claims>
</document>
