<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F111/04,G06F113/10,G06F119/08,G06F119/18,G06F30/23
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIRABELLA, LUCIA
TANG, TSZ LING ELAINE
MUSUVATHY, Suraj Ravi
Lior, Dan
Fu, Wentao
Xia, Songtao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65911294
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TOPOLOGY OPTIMIZATION WITH DESIGN-DEPENDENT LOADS AND BOUNDARY CONDITIONS FOR MULTI-PHYSICS APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a meshing module, one or more physics solvers, one or more sensitivity computation modules, and one or more optimizer modules. The meshing module generates a mesh of a design domain corresponding to an object to be manufactured. The physics solvers each generate physical field variables and objective values based on the mesh and boundary conditions specified on solid-void boundaries of the design domain. The sensitivity computation modules compute a sensitivity field based on the mesh and the physical field variables. The optimizer modules generate an updated design comprising new design variables by executing an optimization of the design domain based on the sensitivity field and the objective values. The physics solvers, the sensitivity computation modules, and the optimizer modules are iteratively executed until convergence to generate a final design based on the new design variables generated by the optimizer modules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a meshing module generating a mesh of a design domain corresponding to an object to be manufactured; one or more physics solvers each generating one or more physical field variables and one or more objective values based on the mesh and one or more boundary conditions specified on solid-void boundaries of the design domain; one or more sensitivity computation modules computing a sensitivity field based on the mesh and the physical field variables; one or more optimizer modules generating an updated design comprising one or more new design variables by executing an optimization of the design domain based on the sensitivity field and the objective values; wherein the physics solvers, the sensitivity computation modules, and the optimizer modules are iteratively executed until convergence to generate a final design based on the new design variables generated by the optimizer modules.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the boundary conditions are modified during each iteration.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein (i) the mesh comprises plurality of elements and each element is associated with a density factor and (ii) if the density factor associated with an element is above a predetermined threshold, the element is designated as solid in the updated design, and (iii) if the density factor associated with an element is below the predetermined threshold, the element is designated as void in the updated design.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the predetermined threshold is adjusted between iterations based on one or more of (i) a degree of change of the objective values compared to a previous iteration and (ii) a number of iterations that have passed since a previous pre-determined threshold adjustment.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein (i) the mesh comprise plurality of elements and each element is associated with a density factor and (ii) the one or more new design variables comprise an adjustment to the density factors associated with one or more the elements.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the adjustment to the density factors is made using a user-selected material interpolation scheme.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the user-selected material interpolation scheme is Solid Isotropic Material with Penalization scheme.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the user-selected material interpolation scheme is Rational Approximation of Material Properties (RAMP) scheme.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a boundary condition evolution module configured to: determine initial boundary conditions using a first process comprising: receiving a plurality of design constraints, storing boundary conditions in contact with the design constraints, adapting the boundary conditions to external boundaries of the design domain using a flood filling technique, storing the boundary conditions on the external boundaries of the design domain; and following generation of each updated design, performing a second process comprising: adapting the boundary conditions on the external boundaries to the updated design using a flood filling technique, and applying boundary conditions in contact with the design constraints to the updated design.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the mesh is a finite elements analysis (FEA) mesh of an initial design.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein: the physics solvers comprise a structural solver, the sensitivity computation modules comprise at least one sensitivity computation module computing sensitivity for compliance, and at least one of the optimizer modules employs an optimality criterion method to generate at least a portion of the updated design.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein: the physics solvers comprise a thermal flow solver, the sensitivity computation modules comprise an adjoint solver, and at least one of the optimizer modules employs a method of moving asymptotes to generate at least a portion of the updated design.
13. The system of claim 1, further comprising: one or more 3-D printers configured to print representations of the object based on the final design.
14. A method comprising: generating a mesh of a design domain; performing a design process over a plurality of iterations comprising: generating, using one or more physics solvers, one or more physical field variables and one or more objective values based on the mesh and one or more boundary conditions specified on solid-void boundaries of the design domain, computing, using one or more sensitivity computation modules, a sensitivity field based on the mesh and the physical field variables, and generating, using one or more optimizer modules, an updated design comprising one or more new design variables by executing an optimization of the design domain based on the sensitivity field and the objective values; and following the design process, presenting a final version of the updated design.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: modifying the boundary conditions following each iteration based on the updated design.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein (i) the mesh comprises plurality of elements and each element is associated with a density factor and (ii) if the density factor associated with an element is above a predetermined threshold, the element is designated as solid in the updated design, and (iii) if the density factor associated with an element is below the predetermined threshold, the element is designated as void in the updated design.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the predetermined threshold is adjusted between iterations based on one or more of (i) a degree of change of the objective values compared to a previous iteration and (ii) a number of iterations that have passed since a previous pre-determined threshold adjustment.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein (i) the mesh comprises plurality of elements and each element is associated with a density factor and (ii) the one or more new design variables comprise an adjustment to the density factors associated with one or more the elements.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining initial boundary conditions using a first process comprising: receiving a plurality of design constraints, storing boundary conditions in contact with the design constraints, adapting the boundary conditions to external boundaries of the design domain using a flood filling technique, storing the boundary conditions on the external boundaries of the design domain; and following generation of each updated design, performing a second process comprising: adapting the boundary conditions on the external boundaries to the updated design using a flood filling technique, and applying boundary conditions in contact with the design constraints to the updated design.
20. An article of manufacture for performing topology optimization, the article of manufacture comprising a non-transitory, tangible computer-readable medium holding computer-executable instructions for performing a method comprising: generating a mesh of a design domain corresponding to an object to be manufactured; performing a design process over a plurality of iterations comprising: generating, using one or more physics solvers, one or more physical field variables and one or more objective values based on the mesh and one or more boundary conditions specified on solid-void boundaries of the design domain, computing, using one or more sensitivity computation modules, a sensitivity field based on the mesh and the physical field variables, and generating, using one or more optimizer modules, an updated design comprising one or more new design variables by executing an optimization of the design domain based on the sensitivity field and the objective values; and following the design process, presenting a final version of the updated design
</claims>
</document>
