<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06N3/04,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIPRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
Singapurwala, Abbas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73891323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DATA SAMPLING USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK (ANN) MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to method and system for data sampling using an artificial neural network (ANN) model. In an embodiment, the method includes identifying a plurality of numerical data columns and a plurality of categorical data columns in population dataset, determining a set of predictor variables and a set of predictand variables by applying a linear regression on the plurality of numerical data columns, generating a sequential prediction model based on the set of predictor variables and the set of predictand variables, and performing stratified sampling on the plurality of categorical data columns to generate a set of stratified samples. The method further includes generating a sample key based on the set of stratified samples and the sequential prediction model, and generating a sample dataset representative of the population dataset based on the sample key.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for sampling population dataset using an artificial neural network (ANN) model, the method comprising: identifying, by a data sampling device, a plurality of numerical data columns and a plurality of categorical data columns in the population dataset; determining, by the data sampling device, a set of predictor variables and a set of predictand variables by applying a linear regression on the plurality of numerical data columns; generating, by the data sampling device, a sequential prediction model based on the set of predictor variables and the set of predictand variables; performing stratified sampling, by the data sampling device, on the plurality of categorical data columns to generate a set of stratified samples; generating, by the data sampling device, a sample key based on the set of stratified samples and the sequential prediction model; and generating, by the data sampling device, a sample dataset representative of the population dataset based on the sample key.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the set of predictor variables comprise: performing correlation between each of at least two predictor columns; removing at least one predictor column from each of the at least two predictor columns when the correlation is above a predetermined threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises generating a sample size for the population dataset.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the sample size comprises generating the sample size based on a population size at a predetermined margin of error or at a predetermined confidence level.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises filtering the plurality of categorical data columns based on the sample size.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the sample key further comprises selecting a set of sample indices by iteratively evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples comprises: determining a mean absolute error by comparing actual predictand variables with predicted predictand variables generated by the sequential prediction model; and selecting a sample with the mean absolute error being the least.
8. A system for sampling population dataset using an artificial neural network (ANN) model, the system comprising: a data sampling device comprising at least one processor and a computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: identifying a plurality of numerical data columns and a plurality of categorical data columns in the population dataset; determining a set of predictor variables and a set of predictand variables by applying a linear regression on the plurality of numerical data columns; generating a sequential prediction model based on the set of predictor variables and the set of predictand variables; performing stratified sampling on the plurality of categorical data columns to generate a set of stratified samples; generating a sample key based on the set of stratified samples and the sequential prediction model; and generating a sample dataset representative of the population dataset based on the sample key.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the set of predictor variables comprise: performing correlation between each of at least two predictor columns; removing at least one predictor column from each of the at least two predictor columns when the correlation is above a predetermined threshold.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises generating a sample size for the population dataset.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein generating the sample size comprises generating the sample size based on a population size at a predetermined margin of error or at a predetermined confidence level.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises filtering the plurality of categorical data columns based on the sample size.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein generating the sample key further comprises selecting a set of sample indices by iteratively evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples comprises: determining a mean absolute error by comparing actual predictand variables with predicted predictand variables generated by the sequential prediction model; and selecting a sample with the mean absolute error being the least.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon, a set of computer-executable instructions causing a computer comprising one or more processors to perform steps comprising: identifying a plurality of numerical data columns and a plurality of categorical data columns in the population dataset; determining a set of predictor variables and a set of predictand variables by applying a linear regression on the plurality of numerical data columns; generating a sequential prediction model based on the set of predictor variables and the set of predictand variables; performing stratified sampling on the plurality of categorical data columns to generate a set of stratified samples; generating a sample key based on the set of stratified samples and the sequential prediction model; and generating a sample dataset representative of the population dataset based on the sample key.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining the set of predictor variables comprise: performing correlation between each of at least two predictor columns; removing at least one predictor column from each of the at least two predictor columns when the correlation is above a predetermined threshold.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises generating a sample size for the population dataset based on a population size at a predetermined margin of error or at a predetermined confidence level.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein performing stratified sampling further comprises filtering the plurality of categorical data columns based on the sample size.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein generating the sample key further comprises selecting a set of sample indices by iteratively evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein evaluating each sample from the set of stratified samples comprises: determining a mean absolute error by comparing actual predictand variables with predicted predictand variables generated by the sequential prediction model; and selecting a sample with the mean absolute error being the least.
</claims>
</document>
