<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N23/20,G03F7/20,H01L21/66,H01L21/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DZIURA, THADDEUS GERARD
GELLINEAU, ANTONIO ARION
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64456034
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Process Monitoring Of Deep Structures With X-Ray Scatterometry
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for estimating values of process parameters, structural parameters, or both, based on x-ray scatterometry measurements of high aspect ratio semiconductor structures are presented herein. X-ray scatterometry measurements are performed at one or more steps of a fabrication process flow. The measurements are performed quickly and with sufficient accuracy to enable yield improvement of an on-going semiconductor fabrication process flow. Process corrections are determined based on the measured values of parameters of interest and the corrections are communicated to the process tool to change one or more process control parameters of the process tool. In some examples, measurements are performed while the wafer is being processed to control the on-going fabrication process step. In some examples, X-ray scatterometry measurements are performed after a particular process step and process control parameters are updated for processing of future devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A wafer processing system comprising: a wafer processing tool configured to process one or more structures on a semiconductor wafer at a first process step of a fabrication process flow; and an x-ray scatterometry based metrology system comprising: an x-ray illumination source configured to provide an amount of x-ray illumination light directed to a measurement spot including the one or more structures at the first process step; a detector configured to detect an amount of x-ray light reflected from or transmitted through the semiconductor wafer in response to the amount of x-ray illumination light; and a computing system configured to: determine values of one or more parameters of interest associated with the one or more structures based on the detected amount of x-ray light; and communicate an indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest to the wafer processing tool that causes the wafer processing tool to adjust a value of one or more process control parameters of the wafer processing tool.
2. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the wafer processing tool is any of an etch process, a deposition process, and a lithography process.
3. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the amount of x-ray illumination light is directed to the measurement spot at a plurality of angles of incidence, azimuth angles, or both.
4. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the x-ray illumination source is further configured to provide the amount of x-ray illumination light directed to a measurement spot at a plurality of different energy levels.
5. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the x-ray illumination source provides the amount of x-ray illumination light and the detector detects the amount of x-ray light while the wafer processing tool is executing the first process step.
6. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the value of the one or more process control parameters occurs while the wafer processing tool is executing the first process step.
7. The wafer processing system of claim 1, the fabrication tool comprising a fabrication process chamber comprising a fabrication process environment, the semiconductor wafer disposed inside the fabrication process chamber and exposed to the fabrication process environment during a process interval, wherein the x-ray illumination source provides the amount of x-ray illumination light and the detector detects the amount of x-ray light during the process interval.
8. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the x-ray illumination source provides the amount of x-ray illumination light and the detector detects the amount of x-ray light after the wafer processing tool has executed the first process step.
9. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the values of the one or more parameters of interest are determined at the first process step, and wherein the indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest communicated to the wafer processing tool cause the wafer processing tool to adjust the value of the one or more process control parameters of the wafer processing tool at a second process step subsequent to the first process step in a fabrication process flow of the one or more structures.
10. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the values of the one or more parameters of interest are determined at the first process step, and wherein the indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest communicated to the wafer processing tool cause the wafer processing tool to adjust the value of the one or more process control parameters of the wafer processing tool at the first process step.
11. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the determining the values of the one or more parameters of interest is based on a model-based measurement model, a trained signal response metrology (SRM) measurement model, or a tomographic measurement model.
12. The wafer processing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more structures includes a three-dimensional NAND structure or a dynamic random access memory (DRAM) structure.
13. A method comprising: providing an amount of x-ray illumination light directed to a measurement spot including one or more structures partially fabricated on a semiconductor wafer; detecting an amount of x-ray light reflected from or transmitted through the semiconductor wafer in response to the amount of x-ray illumination light; determining values of one or more parameters of interest associated with the partially fabricated one or more structures based on the detected amount of x-ray light; and communicating an indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest to a fabrication tool that causes the fabrication tool to adjust a value of one or more process control parameters of the fabrication tool.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the amount of x-ray illumination light is provided to the measurement spot and the amount of x-ray light is detected while the fabrication tool is fabricating the one or more structures.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the adjusting of the value of the one or more process control parameters occurs while the fabrication tool is fabricating the one or more structures.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: exposing the semiconductor wafer to a fabrication process environment within a fabrication process chamber during a process interval, wherein the amount of x-ray illumination light is provided to the measurement spot and the amount of x-ray light is detected during the process interval.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the amount of x-ray illumination light is provided to the measurement spot and the amount of x-ray light is detected after the fabrication tool has executed a step of a fabrication process flow on the semiconductor wafer.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the values of the one or more parameters of interest are determined at a first process step of a fabrication process flow, and wherein the indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest communicated to the fabrication tool cause the fabrication tool to adjust a value of one or more process control parameters of the fabrication tool at a second process step subsequent to the first process step in the fabrication process flow.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the values of the one or more parameters of interest are determined at a process step of a fabrication process flow of the one or more structures, and wherein the indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest communicated to the fabrication tool cause the fabrication tool to adjust a value of one or more process control parameters of the fabrication tool at the process step.
20. An x-ray scatterometry based metrology system comprising: an x-ray illumination source configured to provide an amount of x-ray illumination light directed to a measurement spot including the one or more structures at a first process step of a fabrication process flow; a detector configured to detect an amount of x-ray light reflected from or transmitted through the semiconductor wafer in response to the amount of x-ray illumination light; and a non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions, that when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine values of one or more parameters of interest associated with the one or more structures based on the detected amount of x-ray light; and communicate an indication of the values of the one or more parameters of interest to a wafer processing tool that causes the wafer processing tool to adjust a value of one or more process control parameters of the wafer processing tool.
</claims>
</document>
