<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60H1/00,B60N2/00,B60N2/56,B60N2/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG JIAN
ZHOU XIN
CHEN HAO
LI SHAOCHUN
LI QICHENG
MEI, LIJUN
MA, JIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62106571
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATING PERSONALIZED VEHICLE OCCUPANT COMFORT
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle occupant comfort system, comprises a processor that stores computer executable components stored in memory. A plurality of sensors sense ambient conditions associated with exterior and interior conditions of a vehicle. A context component infers or determines context of an occupant of the vehicle. A comfort model component implicitly and explicitly trained on occupant comfort related data analyzes information from the plurality of sensors and context component. A comfort controller adjusts environmental conditions of a passenger compartment of the vehicle based at least in part on output of the comfort model component.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: sensing, using one or more sensors, ambient conditions associated with one or more conditions of a vehicle; determining, by a device operatively coupled to a processor, context of an occupant of the vehicle; analyzing, by the device, one or more ambient conditions and the context; and adjusting one or more environmental conditions of a passenger compartment of the vehicle based on the analyzing the one or more ambient conditions and the context.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising sensing a body temperature of the occupant.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising inferring information selected from the group consisting of occupant action, destination of the occupant and trip length for the occupant.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising inferring information selected from the group consisting of an amount of clothing worn by the occupant and an optimal environmental condition suitable for at least one of the one or more occupants of the vehicle.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising generating one or more comfort profiles for one or more high frequency users of the vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising employing facial recognition to infer a comfort level of at least one of the one or more occupants, and wherein the inference is based on one or more facial expressions.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising employing pattern recognition to infer a comfort level of at least one of the one or more occupants.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: training, using a processor operatively coupled to a memory, a comfort model corresponding to an occupant of a vehicle, by applying a machine learning approach to training samples, wherein a training sample includes: prior ambient conditions associated with the vehicle and prior body parameters associated with the occupant; a pre-adjustment status and a post-adjustment status of comfort facilities of the vehicle, corresponding to the prior ambient conditions and the prior body parameters; and a prior continuous comfort index based on a Euclidean distance between the pre-adjustment and post-adjustment statuses; sensing, via a plurality of sensors, current ambient conditions associated with the vehicle and current body parameters associated with the occupant; determining, using the processor, a context of the occupant; inferring, using the processor and the comfort model, a current continuous comfort index indicating a current comfort level of the occupant, based on the current ambient conditions, the current body parameters, and the context; determining, using the processor, one or more of the current ambient conditions to be adjusted to improve the current comfort level of the occupant, by: clustering, according to prior body parameters, the training samples that have a prior continuous comfort index better than the current continuous comfort index; identifying a cluster having prior body parameters closest to the current body parameters; calculating representative ambient conditions based on the prior ambient conditions of the identified cluster; and identifying, as the determined one or more of the current ambient conditions, one or more of the current ambient conditions that are worse, by a predetermined benchmark, than the representative ambient conditions; and adjusting environmental conditions of a passenger compartment of the vehicle based on the determined one or more of the current ambient conditions.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising using the plurality of sensors to sense information selected from the group consisting of body temperature of the occupant and an amount of clothing worn by the occupant.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining the context using information selected from the group consisting of an action of the occupant, a destination for the occupant, and a trip length for the occupant.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising further comprising using the comfort model to determine an environmental condition for at least one of one or more occupants of the vehicle.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising using the processor to determine one or more comfort profiles for high frequency occupants of the vehicle.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising using the processor to identify, via facial recognition, the occupant of the vehicle.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising using the processor to infer, via pattern recognition, occupant comfort from one or more facial expressions.
15. A method, comprising: training, using a processor operatively coupled to memory, a comfort model corresponding to an occupant of a vehicle, by applying a machine learning approach to training samples, wherein a training sample includes: prior ambient conditions associated with the vehicle and prior body parameters associated with the occupant; a pre-adjustment status and a post-adjustment status of comfort facilities of the vehicle, corresponding to the prior ambient conditions and the prior body parameters; and a prior continuous comfort index based on a Euclidean distance between the pre-adjustment and post-adjustment statuses; sensing, via one or more sensors, current ambient conditions associated with the vehicle and current body parameters associated with the occupant; inferring, by the comfort model, a current continuous comfort index indicating a current comfort level of the occupant, based on the current ambient conditions and the current body parameters; determining, using the processor, one or more of the current ambient conditions to be adjusted to improve the current comfort level of the occupant, by: clustering, according to prior body parameters, the training samples that have a prior continuous comfort index better than the current continuous comfort index; identifying a cluster having prior body parameters closest to the current body parameters; calculating representative ambient conditions based on the prior ambient conditions of the identified cluster; and identifying, as the determined one or more of the current ambient conditions, one or more of the current ambient conditions that are worse, by a predetermined benchmark, than the representative ambient conditions; and adjusting, using the processor, one or more of the comfort facilities of the vehicle corresponding to the determined one or more of the current ambient conditions.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the machine learning approach is a regression analysis.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising inferring, using the processor, a context of the occupant, including at least a recent activity of the occupant, and wherein the current continuous comfort index is based in part on the context.
</claims>
</document>
