<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/42,H04M3/54,H04W4/14,H04W4/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAS JAYANTA
SCHMIT, EDWARD G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55913301
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cloud-based device twinning
</title>

<abstract>
A network-based service is utilized to facilitate twinning of two or more communication devices associated with a subscriber account. Incoming communication is intercepted by a communication device and forwarded to a network server, which in turn transmits the incoming communication to the multiple twinned devices. In addition, identifier data associated with outgoing communication is replaced with a primary identifier (e.g., customer telephone number (CTN)) of a user's primary device or a common identifier (e.g., a mobile one number (MON)) assigned to devices associated with the user's subscriber account. Communication devices can be temporarily twinned for a defined time period, during which a common bill can be generated for the twinned devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to determining that a first electronic device and a second electronic device are associated with a common subscriber account, routing communication data associated with the first electronic device to the second electronic device; and in response to the routing of the communication data to the second electronic device, presenting notification data indicative of a notification via the first electronic device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises employing configuration data that links the first electronic device and the second electronic device.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises employing configuration data that links a first identifier of a first subscriber identity module of the first electronic device with a second identifier of a second subscriber identity module of the second electronic device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises determining that the second electronic device is associated with identifier data of the first electronic device that is stored by a network data store.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises determining that the second electronic device is associated with a telephone number of the first electronic device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining comprises linking the first electronic device and the second electronic device based on policy data associated with a predefined code received from the first electronic device or the second electronic device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving input data comprising instructions to link the first electronic device with the second electronic device; and in response to receiving the input data, directing, to the first electronic device, request data indicative of a request for an authorization to link the first electronic device with the second electronic device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving input data to activate twinning of the first electronic device and the second electronic device; and in response to the receiving the input data, receiving authorization data indicative of an authorization to activate the twinning.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving first input data to activate twinning of the first electronic device and the second electronic device; and receiving second input data to deactivate twinning of the first electronic device and the second electronic device.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the presenting the notification data comprises presenting the notification data via the first electronic device and the second electronic device.
11. A method, comprising: in response to determining that a first user equipment and a second user equipment are associated with a common subscriber account, transmitting, by a system comprising a processor, communication data associated with the first user equipment to the second user equipment; and in response to the transmitting the communication data to the second user equipment, facilitating, by the system, a presentation of notification data indicative of a notification associated with the communication data via the first user equipment.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: linking, by the system, a first identifier of a first subscriber identity module of the first user equipment with a second identifier of a second subscriber identity module of the second user equipment.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the system, whether the second user equipment is associated with identifier data of the first user equipment.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the system, whether the second user equipment is associated with a telephone number of the first user equipment.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: linking, by the system, the first user equipment and the second user equipment in response to receiving policy data associated with a predefined text code received from the first user equipment or the second user equipment.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the facilitating the presentation of the notification data comprises facilitating the presentation of the notification data via the first user equipment and the second user equipment.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to determining that a first computing device and a second computing device are associated with a corresponding subscriber account, routing communication data associated with the first computing device to the second computing device; and in response to the routing of the communication data to the second computing device, displaying notification data indicative of a notification via the first computing device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determining comprises determining that the first computing device and the second computing device are associated with the corresponding subscriber account based on a first identifier of a first subscriber identity module of the first computing device and a second identifier of a second subscriber identity module of the second computing device.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the displaying the notification data comprises displaying the notification data via the first computing device and the second computing device.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the displaying the notification data comprises displaying the notification data via a first display of the first computing device and a second display of the second computing device.
</claims>
</document>
