<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04N21/234,H04N21/25,H04N21/431,H04N21/4402,H04N21/472
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOFIGHBAKHSH, MOSTAFA
JANA, RITTWIK
Blystone, Stephen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044886
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIDEO OBJECT TAGGING BASED ON MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method in which a processing system obtains a sample of a content stream directed to a user device, identifies a type of the content stream, and selects a model for recognizing objects appearing in the content stream. The system analyzes the content stream in accordance with the model to recognize the object, generates a label for the object, and associates the label with the object in the content stream. The system also delivers the content stream for presentation at the user device; the label is delivered in-line with respect to the content stream and is generated in real time with respect to the presentation. The method further includes training the model in accordance with a machine learning procedure; the model is refined based on the analyzing of the content stream. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system including a processor, a sample of a content stream directed to a user device, the user device associated with a subscriber to a communication network; identifying, by the processing system, a type of the content stream, based on the sample; selecting, by the processing system, a model for use in recognizing an object appearing in the content stream, in accordance with the type of the content stream; analyzing, by the processing system, the content stream in accordance with the model to recognize the object; generating, by the processing system, a label for the object; associating, by the processing system, the label with the object in the content stream; determining, by the processing system, that an attribute of the label matches a portion of a profile of the subscriber, indicating that the label correlates with an interest of the subscriber; delivering, by the processing system, the content stream for presentation at the user device, the label being delivered in-line with respect to the content stream and being generated in real time with respect to the presentation, the labeled object being presented in an enhanced format, wherein the labeled object represents an advertised product, the label having an accompanying link to a site offering information regarding the product; and training, by the processing system, the model in accordance with a machine learning procedure, whereby the model is refined based on the analyzing of the content stream.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the enhanced format comprises a display of the label, a highlighted display of the object, a display of the object at a higher resolution than that of another object in the content stream, a display of the object in a predefined portion of a display area of the user device, or a combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a selectable item is displayed in association with the labeled object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is one of a plurality of models stored in a database accessible to the processing system and indexed to the type of the content stream.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising extracting, by the processing system, metadata relating to the labeled object, wherein the metadata is delivered in-line with respect to the content stream.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying is performed using a predefined decision tree.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the content stream is produced by the communication network, and wherein the method is performed as a service provided at an edge of the communication network.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the content stream is delivered via a programmable data pipeline of the communication network, the data pipeline being programmed to generate the label.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the label delivered in-line with respect to the content stream is integrated with the content stream.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising transcoding, by the processing system, the labeled object. wherein the transcoding enables manipulation of the object at a display of the user device in accordance with user input.
11. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a sample of a content stream directed to a user device, the user device associated with a subscriber to a communication network; identifying a type of the content stream, based on the sample; selecting a model for use in recognizing an object appearing in the content stream, in accordance with the type of the content stream, the model being stored in a database accessible to the processing system and indexed to the type of the content stream; analyzing the content stream in accordance with the model to recognize the object; generating a label for the object; associating the label with the object in the content stream; determining that an attribute of the label matches a portion of a profile of the subscriber, indicating that the label correlates with an interest of the subscriber; delivering the content stream for presentation at the user device, the label being delivered in-line with respect to the content stream and being generated in real time with respect to the presentation, the labeled object being presented in an enhanced format, wherein the labeled object represents an advertised product, the label having an accompanying link to a site offering information regarding the product; and training the model in accordance with a machine learning procedure, whereby the model is refined based on the analyzing of the content stream.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the identifying is performed using a predefined decision tree.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the content stream is produced by the communication network, and wherein the operations are performed as a service provided at an edge of the communication network.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise extracting metadata relating to the labeled object, wherein the metadata is delivered in-line with respect to the content stream.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise transcoding the labeled object.
16. A machine-readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a sample of a content stream produced by a network and directed to a user device in communication with the network, the user device associated with a subscriber to the network; identifying a type of the content stream, based on the sample; selecting a model for use in recognizing an object appearing in the content stream, in accordance with the type of the content stream; analyzing the content stream in accordance with the model to recognize the object; generating a label for the object; associating the label with the object in the content stream; determining that an attribute of the label matches a portion of a profile of the subscriber, indicating that the label correlates with an interest of the subscriber; delivering the content stream for presentation at the user device, the label being delivered in-line with respect to the content stream and being generated in real time with respect to the presentation, the labeled object being presented in an enhanced format, wherein the labeled object represents an advertised product, the label having an accompanying link to a site offering information regarding the product; and training the model in accordance with a machine learning procedure, whereby the model is refined based on the analyzing of the content stream.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the model is stored in a database accessible to the processing system and indexed to the type of the content stream.
18. The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations are performed as a service provided at an edge of the network.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise transcoding the labeled object.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the transcoding enables manipulation of the object at a display of the user device in accordance with user input.
</claims>
</document>
