<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKELLA, ABISHEK KRISHNA
HUDECEK, JANEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458009
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COST SCALING IN TRAJECTORY GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for generating trajectories and drivable areas for navigating a vehicle in an environment are discussed herein. The techniques can include receiving a reference trajectory representing an initial trajectory for a vehicle, such as an autonomous vehicle, to traverse the environment. Portions of the reference trajectory can be identified as corresponding to actions to navigate around a double-parked vehicle or to change lanes, for example. In some cases, a portion of the reference trajectory can be identified based on a proximity to an object in the environment. A weight can be associated with the portions of the reference trajectory, and the techniques can include evaluating a reference cost function at points of the reference trajectory based on the associated weights to generate a target trajectory. Further, the techniques can include controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the environment based at least in part on the target trajectory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving a reference trajectory representing an initial path for an autonomous vehicle to traverse an environment; determining a first portion of the reference trajectory; determining a second portion of the reference trajectory that is separate from the first portion; determining a first weight associated with a first reference cost to be evaluated at a first point associated with the first portion of the reference trajectory, wherein the first reference cost is associated with a first difference between the first point on the reference trajectory and a corresponding first point; determining a second weight associated with a second reference cost to be evaluated at a second point associated with the second portion of the reference trajectory, wherein the second reference cost is associated with a second difference between the second point on the reference trajectory and a corresponding second point, wherein the second weight is larger than the first weight; evaluating a reference cost function at the first point and the second point to generate a target trajectory comprising the corresponding first point and the corresponding second point; and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the environment based at least in part on the target trajectory.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the reference trajectory is associated with at least one of a discontinuity in the reference trajectory or an obstacle cost that meets or exceeds a threshold obstacle cost.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first difference comprises one or more of a difference in a yaw, a lateral offset, a velocity, an acceleration, a curvature, or a curvature rate.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first weight is based at least in part on one or more of: determining that a lateral displacement associated with a portion of the target trajectory corresponding to the first portion of the reference trajectory is below a first threshold distance for a given a time period; or determining that the lateral displacement associated with the portion of the target trajectory corresponding to the first portion of the reference trajectory is below a second threshold distance for a given distance.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first reference cost comprises a penalty associated with generating the target trajectory that deviates, at the first point and represented as the first difference, from the reference trajectory.
6. A method comprising: receiving a first trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to traverse an environment; determining a first portion of the first trajectory; determining a second portion of the first trajectory that is separate from the first portion; determining a first weight associated with the first portion of the first trajectory; determining a second weight associated with second portion of the first trajectory, wherein the first weight is different than the second weight; evaluating, with respect to the first trajectory and based at least in part on the first weight and the second weight, a reference cost to generate a second trajectory; and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the environment based at least in part on the second trajectory.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein evaluating the reference cost comprises: evaluating a first reference cost associated with the first portion, the first reference cost proportional to the first weight; and evaluating a second reference cost associated with the second portion, the second reference cost proportional to the second weight.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the first portion of the first trajectory is associated with points, and wherein the point is a first point, the method further comprising: determining a point density for the points associated with the first portion of the first trajectory based at least in part on a first cost associated with a curvature value of the first portion or a second cost associated with a distance between the first point of the first portion and a second point associated with an obstacle in the environment.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the reference cost is associated with a difference between a first point on the first trajectory and a corresponding first point on the second trajectory.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the difference comprises one or more of a difference in a yaw, a lateral offset, a velocity, an acceleration, a curvature, or a curvature rate.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein the first portion of the first trajectory is associated with at least one of a discontinuity in the first trajectory or an obstacle cost that meets or exceeds a threshold obstacle cost.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein: the discontinuity in the first trajectory represents a lane change action; or the obstacle cost meeting or exceeding the threshold obstacle cost represents a least a portion of the first trajectory passing within an area representing an obstacle in the environment.
13. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining a drivable area through the environment for the autonomous vehicle, wherein the drivable area represents a region in the environment on which the autonomous vehicle is configured to traverse and an object in the environment; and evaluating an obstacle cost based at least in part on the drivable area; wherein the second trajectory is based at least in part on the obstacle cost.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the drivable area is based at least in part on a velocity associated with the autonomous vehicle or a classification of the object.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a first trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to traverse an environment; determining a first portion of the first trajectory; determining a second portion of the first trajectory that is separate from the first portion; determining a first weight associated with the first portion of the first trajectory; determining a second weight associated with second portion of the first trajectory, wherein the first weight is different than the second weight; evaluating, with respect to the first trajectory and based at least in part on the first weight and the second weight, a reference cost to generate a second trajectory; and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the environment based at least in part on the second trajectory.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein: evaluating the reference cost comprises: evaluating a first reference cost associated with the first portion, the first reference cost proportional to the first weight; and evaluating a second reference cost associated with the second portion, the second reference cost proportional to the second weight.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the reference cost is associated with a difference between a first point on the first trajectory and a corresponding first point on the second trajectory.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the first trajectory is associated with at least one of a discontinuity in the first trajectory or an obstacle cost that meets or exceeds a threshold obstacle cost.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a drivable area through the environment for the autonomous vehicle, wherein the drivable area represents a region in the environment on which the autonomous vehicle is configured to traverse and an object in the environment; and evaluating an obstacle cost based at least in part on the drivable area; wherein the second trajectory is based at least in part on the obstacle cost.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein determining the drivable area is based at least in part on a velocity associated with the autonomous vehicle or a classification of the object.
</claims>
</document>
