<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M5/315,A61M5/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NORTON HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLARKE, CHRISTOPHER JOHN
CORRIGAN, JOSEPH PETER
O'ROURKE, DOUGLAS JAMES
RILEY, JAMES JOSEPH
SANDERS, ALAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64024323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INJECTION DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Injection monitoring circuitry is provided for coupling to part of an injection device having a syringe and a plunger rod. The injection monitoring circuitry has an input to receive force measurement data from a force sensor, the force measurement data includes a plurality of timestamped force measurements of force applied by a user to the injection device when an injection is administered to an injection site. Processing circuitry is provided to determine from the force measurement data when an end of injection has been reached, the end of injection corresponding to the plunger rod having reached an end position in a distal portion of the barrel of the syringe during administration of the injection by the user. Machine readable instructions and an injection monitoring method are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Injection monitoring circuitry for coupling to part of an injection device having a syringe and a plunger rod, the injection monitoring circuitry comprising: an input to receive force measurement data from a force sensor, the force measurement data comprising a plurality of timestamped force measurements of force applied by a user to the injection device when an injection is administered to an injection site; and processing circuitry configured to determine from the force measurement data when an end of injection has been reached, the end of injection corresponding to the plunger rod having reached an end position in a distal portion of the barrel of the syringe during administration of the injection by the user.
2. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine when the end of injection has been reached without using reflection-based measurements of displacements of the plunger rod relative to a body of the syringe.
3. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the end of injection from a force profile for an injection administering event, the force profile comprising an ordered time series of the plurality of timestamped force measurements.
4. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine from the force profile at least one of: a start of injection corresponding to a start of a transfer of a medicament from the syringe barrel to the injection site, a duration of the injection and whether or not a full dose of a medicament has been delivered at by the end of the injection.
5. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the end of injection when a force measurement towards an end of the ordered time series of the force profile exceeds a force threshold value.
6. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the end of injection depending on a comparison of a gradient of a characteristic curve fitted to the force profile with a gradient threshold value or when the gradient of the characteristic curve increases by more than a threshold amount within a predetermined time period.
7. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine a displacement of the plunger rod within the syringe as a function of time by integrating an area under a characteristic curve fitted to the force profile.
8. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the end of injection is determined using at least one of: wavelet convolution of the force profile and Fourier analysis of the force profile.
9. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to implement a state machine on the force profile to determine at last one of a possible injection start time and a possible injection end time.
10. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 9, wherein the state machine is configured to at least one of: determine the possible start depending on detection of a first predetermined number of time steps above a first threshold force within a first time window; and to determine the possible end depending on detection of a second number of time-steps below a second threshold force within a second time window.
11. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 9, wherein the state machine is configured to determine a mid-injection phase of the force profile depending on a third number of time-steps being above a third threshold force within a time window comprising a third number of contiguous time-steps.
12. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 9, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the end of injection by implementing one of a machine learning algorithm and a neural network algorithm.
13. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 9, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the end of injection by implementing a machine learning algorithm on an analysis time window of the force profile selected based on the possible injection start time and the possible injection end time determined by the state machine.
14. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to implement the machine learning algorithm to analyse a plurality of predetermined features of the force profile in the analysis time window to determine the end of injection, the predetermined features comprising at least a subset of: an injection duration; a mean force magnitude; a standard deviation of force measurements; a skew of force measurements; a kurtosis of force measurements; a maximum force value; a minimum force value; a 25th percentile value; and a 75th percentile value.
15. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to implement the machine learning algorithm to analyse a plurality of predetermined features of the force profile in the analysis time window by sub-dividing the analysis time window into a plurality of time intervals and performing the features analysis for at least one of the predetermined features independently for each of at least two of the plurality of time intervals.
16. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 15, wherein the at least one predetermined feature independently analysed for the at least two time intervals is a mean force in the time interval or a standard deviation of the force in the time interval.
17. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to scale the force measurement data using at least one scaling factor, the scaling factor being selected depending on a form factor of a wirelessly connected display device remote from the injection device on which a force profile incorporating the force measurement data is to be displayed.
18. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine an injection hold time corresponding to a duration that a needle of the syringe is to remain in an injection site after the end of the injection and to output an indication of the injection hold time to the user.
19. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 1, further comprising a plunger rod for an injection device, the plunger rod comprising the injection monitoring circuitry.
20. Injection monitoring circuitry of claim 19, wherein at least a portion of the injection monitoring circuitry is provided in a proximal head of the plunger rod.
21. Machine readable instructions provided on a non-transitory machine-readable medium, the machine-readable instructions upon execution by one or more processing hardware circuits to: receive force measurement data from a force sensor, the force measurement data comprising a plurality of timestamped force measurements of force applied by a user to the injection device when an injection is administered to an injection site; determine from the force measurement data when an end of injection has been reached, the end of injection corresponding to the plunger rod having reached an end position in a distal portion of the barrel of the syringe during administration of the injection by the user; and output an end of injection indication to a user.
22. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 21, comprising instructions to determine the end of injection from a force profile for an injection administering event, the force profile comprising an ordered time series of the plurality of timestamped force measurements.
23. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 22, comprising instructions to implement a state machine on the force profile to determine a possible injection start time and a possible injection end time.
24. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 23, wherein the state machine is to at least one of: determine the possible start depending on detection of a first predetermined number of time steps above a first threshold force within a first time window; and to determine the possible end depending on detection of a second number of time-steps below a second threshold force within a second time window.
25. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 24, wherein the state machine is to determine a mid-injection phase of the force profile depending on a third number of time-steps being above a third threshold force within a time window comprising a fourth number of contiguous time-steps greater than the third number.
26. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 24, comprising instructions to determine the end of injection by implementing one of a machine learning algorithm and a neural network algorithm.
27. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 24, comprising instructions to determine the end of injection by implementing a machine learning algorithm on an analysis time window of the force profile selected based on the possible injection start time and the possible injection end time determined by the state machine.
28. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 27, comprising instructions of the machine learning algorithm to analyse a plurality of predetermined features of the force profile in the analysis time window to determine the end of injection, the predetermined features comprising at least a subset of: an injection duration; a mean force magnitude; a standard deviation of force measurements; a skew of force measurements; a kurtosis of force measurements; a maximum force value; a minimum force value; a 25th percentile value; and a 75th percentile value.
29. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 28, comprising instructions of the machine learning algorithm to sub-divide the analysis time window into a plurality of sub-windows and to perform the features analysis for at least one of the predetermined features independently for each of at least two of the plurality of sub-windows.
30. Machine readable instructions as claimed in claim 29, wherein the at least one predetermined feature independently analysed for the at least two sub windows is a mean force in the sub-window or a standard deviation of force in the sub-window.
31. Method of monitoring an injection event performed by an injection device comprising a plunger rod and a syringe, the method comprising: receiving force measurement data from a force sensor, the force measurement data comprising a plurality of timestamped force measurements of force applied by a user to the injection device when an injection is administered to an injection site; determining from the force measurement data when an end of injection has been reached, the end of injection corresponding to the plunger rod having reached an end position in a distal portion of a barrel of the syringe during administration of the injection by the user; and outputting an end of injection indication to a user.
</claims>
</document>
