<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10,G16H20/40,G16H40/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, ZE
KATUWAL, GAJENDRA JUNG
SWISHER, CHRISTINE MENKING
LYONS, Kevin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65861265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FAST AND PERSONALIZED RECOMMENDER SYSTEM FOR RADIATION THERAPY PLANNING ENHANCEMENT VIA CLOSED LOOP PHYSICIAN FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
A non-transitory computer-readable medium stores a preferences database (16); instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor (20) to perform a proposed radiation treatment plan review process (100), including: via a reviewing graphical user interface (GUI) (28), presenting a proposed radiation treatment plan to a reviewer; via the reviewing GUI, receiving one of (i) an acceptance of the proposed radiation treatment plan or (ii) a rejection of the proposed radiation treatment plan in combination with annotations of the rejected proposed radiation treatment plan from the reviewer; and updating radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer stored in the preferences database based on the acceptance of the proposed radiation treatment plan or based on the annotations of the rejected proposed radiation treatment plan; and instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor (32) to perform a radiation treatment planning process (200) including: optimizing radiation treatment parameters for a patient with respect to dose objectives and using at least one planning image of a patient to generate one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient; retrieving, from the preferences database to a planning GUI (40), radiation treatment plan preferences of a reviewer associated with the patient; and displaying the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient at the planning GUI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing: a preferences database; instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor to perform a proposed radiation treatment plan review process, including: via a reviewing graphical user interface (GUI), presenting a proposed radiation treatment plan to a reviewer; via the reviewing GUI, receiving one of (i) an acceptance of the proposed radiation treatment plan or (ii) a rejection of the proposed radiation treatment plan in combination with annotations of the rejected proposed radiation treatment plan from the reviewer; and updating radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer stored in the preferences database based on the acceptance of the proposed radiation treatment plan or based on the annotations of the rejected proposed radiation treatment plan; and instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor to perform a radiation treatment planning process including: optimizing radiation treatment parameters for a patient with respect to dose objectives and using at least one planning image of a patient to generate one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient; retrieving, from the preferences database to a planning GUI, radiation treatment plan preferences of a reviewer associated with the patient; and displaying the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient at the planning GUI.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the radiation treatment planning process further includes receiving, at the planning GUI, a selection of one of the one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for proposal to the reviewer associated with the patient by the proposed radiation treatment plan review process.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the displaying of the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient at the planning GUI includes displaying the radiation treatment plan preferences as one or more recommended modifications to the one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the displaying of the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient at the planning GUI includes: comparing the one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient with the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient; and based on the comparison, displaying a recommendation of one of the one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient as most closely matching the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1 wherein the retrieving, from the preferences database to the planning GUI, of the radiation treatment plan preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient includes selecting acceptances of or annotations to radiation treatment plans of prior patients of the reviewer associated with the patient based on similarity to the one or more candidate radiation treatment plans for the patient and retrieving preferences of the reviewer associated with the patient respective to the selected acceptances or annotations.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the optimizing includes: querying the preferences database for a physician's plan library for previous patients similar to the patient; processing the plan library to query similar patients based on a specific set of features and a level of relevance; extracting annotations for rejected patient plans and approved plans from previous patients most similar to the patient.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions readable and executable by at least one electronic processor to perform a radiation treatment plan and approval method, the method comprising: receiving, at a first access point, a proposed radiation treatment plan from a second access point; receiving, via one or more user input devices at the first access point, one or more user inputs indicative of at least one of an acceptance of the proposed radiation treatment plan or a rejection of the proposed radiation treatment plan in combination with annotations of the proposed radiation treatment plan; transmitting the acceptance or the rejection in combination with the annotations to the second access point and displaying, at the second access point, the acceptance or the rejection in combination with the annotations; and storing the acceptance or the rejection in combination with the annotations in a preferences database.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the method further includes: generating the proposed radiation treatment plan at the second access point; conditional upon the proposed radiation treatment plan being rejected and displaying, at the second access point, the rejection in combination with the annotations, updating the proposed radiation treatment plan based on the annotations and repeating the receiving operations, the transmitting operation, and the storing operation until a user input indicative of an acceptance of the treatment plan is received at the second access point.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the method further includes: retrieving, from the preferences database, previous annotations made by an oncologist for who the proposed treatment plan is prepared; and updating, at the second access point, the proposed treatment plan with the retrieved previous annotations.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the retrieving includes: retrieving, from the preferences database, previous treatment plans accepted by the oncologist for patients having a similar region of interest (ROI) for treatment; and updating, at the second access point, the proposed treatment plan with the retrieved previous accepted treatment plans.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the method further includes: retrieving, from the preferences database, previous treatment plans rejected and annotated by the oncologist in which an annotation for a new region of internet (ROI) was added; updating, at the second access point, the proposed treatment plan using the retrieved annotations.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the method further includes: generating, at the second access point, a ranked list of the proposed treatment plans based on the retrieved previous annotations and accepted treatment plans; and transmitting the ranked list of proposed treatment plans to the first access point.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: using a trained neural network (NN) to recommend treatment options to generate the proposed treatment plan; and updating the recommended treatment options using the user inputs indicative of acceptance, rejections, and annotations.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: updating one or more state variables of the trained NN using the user inputs indicative of acceptance, rejections, and annotations.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the state variables include at least one of: features from imaging sessions of the patient, patient demographic information, patient weight changes, and patient condition changes.
16. An adaptive radiation planning method to perform fractionated radiation therapy on a patient over a plurality of radiation treatment sessions in accord with a radiation treatment plan, the method comprising, between successive sessions of the fractionated radiation therapy: constructing a current state of the patient with state variables derived from a current medical image of the patient and additional state variables derived from patient information other than the current medical image of the patient; by a processor, applying a neural network to the current state to generate an adaptive radiotherapy (ART) recommendation; displaying the ART recommendation on a workstation and receiving a decision as to whether to perform ART via the workstation; by the processor, performing ART to adjust the radiation treatment plan conditional upon the decision being to perform ART; and by the processor, performing reinforcement learning based on the decision to update the neural network.
17. The adaptive radiation planning method of claim 16 wherein the additional state variables include or are derived from at least one of: patient demographic information, patient weight changes, and patient condition changes.
18. The adaptive radiation planning method of claim 16 wherein the received decision is formulated as a received score of the ART recommendation, wherein the decision is to perform ART if the score exceeds a threshold and the reinforcement learning is performed based on the score.
19. The adaptive radiation planning method of claim 16 wherein the reinforcement learning is performed further based on whether a patient condition has improved or degraded subsequent to a previous performing of ART to adjust the radiation treatment plan.
20. The adaptive radiation planning method of claim 16, wherein the neural network comprises a Q network.
</claims>
</document>
