<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/12,G01R21/133
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CATERPILLAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, YANCHAI
DUST, MAURICE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73228429
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR A DRILLING RIG
</title>

<abstract>
A power management system may monitor data relating to respective loads on a plurality of power sources. The plurality of power sources may be associated with a drilling rig engaged in a drilling process. The power management system may determine a stage of the drilling process based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources. The power management system may determine, based on the stage of the drilling process that is determined, respective load shares for the plurality of power sources. The power management system may manage load sharing among the plurality of power sources according to the respective load shares that are determined.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: monitoring, by a device, data relating to respective loads on a plurality of power sources, wherein the plurality of power sources are associated with a drilling rig engaged in a drilling process; determining, by the device, a stage of the drilling process based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources, wherein the stage of the drilling process is associated with a total power output to be directed from the plurality of power sources to the drilling rig; determining, by the device and based on the stage of the drilling process that is determined, respective load shares for the plurality of power sources; and managing, by the device, load sharing among the plurality of power sources according to the respective load shares that are determined.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage of the drilling process is one of: a spudding stage, a casing stage, a tripping-in stage, a tripping-out stage, a circulation stage, or a drilling stage.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the stage is a first stage and the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources are first respective load shares for the plurality of power sources, wherein the method further comprises: predicting a second stage of the drilling process based on the first stage; predicting a transition time from the first stage to the second stage based on the first stage; determining, based on the second stage of the drilling process that is predicted, second respective load shares for the plurality of power sources; and preparing the plurality of power sources for load sharing according to the second respective load shares, wherein load sharing according to the second respective load shares is to occur upon reaching the transition time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources are determined in order to achieve a particular fuel consumption of the plurality of power sources.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data relates to the respective loads on the plurality of power sources and respective speeds of the plurality of power sources, wherein determining the stage of the drilling process is based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources and the respective speeds of the plurality of power sources.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a power source of the plurality of power sources is an engine that is associated with a generator.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is an engine control module of a power source of the plurality of power sources.
8. A power management system, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: monitor data relating to respective loads on a plurality of power sources and respective speeds of the plurality of power sources, wherein the plurality of power sources are associated with a drilling rig engaged in a drilling process; determine a stage of the drilling process based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources and the respective speeds of the plurality of power sources, wherein the stage of the drilling process is associated with a total power output to be directed from the plurality of power sources to the drilling rig; determine, based on the stage of the drilling process that is determined, respective load shares for the plurality of power sources; and manage load sharing among the plurality of power sources according to the respective load shares that are determined.
9. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the data includes first time series data relating to the respective loads and second time series data relating to the respective speeds.
10. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the stage of the drilling process is one of: a spudding stage, a casing stage, a tripping-in stage, a tripping-out stage, a circulation stage, or a drilling stage.
11. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when determining the stage of the drilling process, are to: determine the stage of the drilling process using a first model, wherein the one or more processors, when determining the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources, are to: determine the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources using a second model.
12. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when determining the stage of the drilling process, are to: determine the stage of the drilling process based on a pattern of load values over a time period and a pattern of speed values over the time period.
13. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources are determined in order to achieve a particular fuel consumption for the plurality of power sources.
14. The power management system of claim 8, wherein the total power output is based on historical data relating to the stage of the drilling process.
15. A drilling rig comprising: a plurality of power sources that power the drilling rig; and a power management system, wherein the power management system is to: monitor data relating to respective loads on the plurality of power sources; determine a stage of a drilling process performed by the drilling rig based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources, wherein the stage of the drilling process is associated with a total power output to be directed from the plurality of power sources to the drilling rig; determine, based on the stage of the drilling process that is determined, respective load shares for the plurality of power sources; and manage load sharing among the plurality of power sources according to the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources that are determined.
16. The drilling rig of claim 15, wherein the data is time series data relating to the respective loads.
17. The drilling rig of claim 15, wherein the data relates to the respective loads on the plurality of power sources and respective speeds of the plurality of power sources, wherein the power management system, when determining the stage of the drilling process, is to: determine the stage of the drilling process based on the respective loads on the plurality of power sources and the respective speeds of the plurality of power sources.
18. The drilling rig of claim 15, wherein the stage of the drilling process is one of: a spudding stage, a casing stage, a tripping-in stage, a tripping-out stage, a circulation stage, or a drilling stage.
19. The drilling rig of claim 15, wherein the power management system is further to: determine respective operating priorities for the plurality of power sources, wherein the power management system, when determining the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources, is to: determine the respective load shares for the plurality of power sources based on the stage of the drilling process that is determined and the respective operating priorities for the plurality of power sources.
20. The drilling rig of claim 15, wherein a power source of the plurality of power sources is an engine that is associated with a generator.
</claims>
</document>
