<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,G16H10/20,G16H20/10,G16H40/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HI-Q COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, MUNJAL
JIAO, SHUO
SINGH, ARDAMAN
HINCHEY, RYAN
FAN, CATHY YE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58499638
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTING SYSTEM IMPLEMENTING MORTALITY PREDICTION USING A CORRELATIVE HEALTH ASSERTION LIBRARY
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system can execute a correlation model for a library of health assertions to configure a correlation value for each health assertion. The correlation value comprises a correlation between knowledge associated with the health assertion and known health outcomes of individuals in a control group who have also provided responses to the health assertions. The computing system provides a health trivia session for users and based at least in part on the performance of the user, generates a mortality outcome profile that is used to classify the user in an underwriting class.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system implementing mortality prediction for a health service, the computing system comprising: a network communication interface to communicate, over one or more wireless networks, with computing devices of users of the health service; one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: execute a correlation model to determine a correlation value for each respective health assertion in a collection of health assertions based on (i) answers to the respective health assertion provided by individuals in a control group, and (ii) known health outcomes of each individual in the control group, wherein the correlation value for each respective health assertion in the collection corresponds to a set of health correlations between knowledge associated with the respective health assertion and the known health outcomes of the individuals in the control group, wherein the collection of health assertions are configured to test general health knowledge of the user of the health service and not query user-specific information of the users; generate, over the one or more wireless networks, a health trivia session to be presented on a computing device of a user, the health trivia session comprising a set of health assertions from the collection of health assertions; receive, over the one or more wireless networks, a corresponding set of responses to the set of health assertions from the computing device of the user; for each response in the corresponding set of responses, determine a correctness for the response, the correctness indicating whether the user answered a corresponding health assertion correctly or incorrectly; based on (i) the correctness of each response in the corresponding set of responses, and (ii) the correlation value of each health assertion in the set of health assertions provided during the trivia session, generate a mortality profile for the user, the mortality profile corresponding to a predicted life expectancy of the user; based on the mortality profile of the user, determine an underwriting class for a health service product for the user; and generate, over the one or more wireless networks, a service customer interface to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the service customer interface enabling the user to purchase the health service product in the specified underwriting class.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: access, over the one or more wireless networks, social media content of the user; based on the social media content, classify the user into one or more lifestyle categories.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to further generate the mortality profile for the user based on the one or more lifestyle categories of the user as determined from the social media content.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: access, over the one or more wireless networks, social media data associated with one or more individuals in the control group; wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to determine the known health outcomes of the one or more individuals in the control group based, at least in part, on the social media data.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the known health outcomes of the one or more individuals in the control group comprise mortality outcomes, and wherein the social media data indicate death of the one or more individuals in the control group.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the underwriting class corresponds to one of a premium or a discount for the health service product.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the health service product comprises a life insurance or a health insurance product.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the set of health assertions for the health trivia session comprise multiple choice health assertions or questions.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to: communicate, over one or more wireless networks, with computing devices of users of a health service; execute a correlation model to determine a correlation value for each respective health assertion in a collection of health assertions based on (i) answers to the respective health assertion provided by individuals in a control group, and (ii) known health outcomes of each individual in the control group, wherein the correlation value for each respective health assertion in the collection corresponds to a set of health correlations between knowledge associated with the respective health assertion and the known health outcomes of the individuals in the control group, wherein the collection of health assertions are configured to test general health knowledge of the user of the health service and not query user-specific information of the users; generate, over the one or more wireless networks, a health trivia session to be presented on a computing device of a user, the health trivia session comprising a set of health assertions from the collection of health assertions; receive, over the one or more wireless networks, a corresponding set of responses to the set of health assertions from the computing device of the user; for each response in the corresponding set of responses, determine a correctness for the response, the correctness indicating whether the user answered a corresponding health assertion correctly or incorrectly; based on (i) the correctness of each response in the corresponding set of responses, and (ii) the correlation value of each health assertion in the set of health assertions provided during the trivia session, generate a mortality profile for the user, the mortality profile corresponding to a predicted life expectancy of the user; based on the mortality profile of the user, determine an underwriting class for a health service product for the user; and generate, over the one or more wireless networks, a service customer interface to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the service customer interface enabling the user to purchase the health service product in the specified underwriting class.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: access, over the one or more wireless networks, social media content of the user; based on the social media content, classify the user into one or more lifestyle categories.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to further generate the mortality profile for the user based on the one or more lifestyle categories of the user as determined from the social media content.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: access, over the one or more wireless networks, social media data associated with one or more individuals in the control group; wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to determine the known health outcomes of the one or more individuals in the control group based, at least in part, on the social media data.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the known health outcomes of the one or more individuals in the control group comprise mortality outcomes, and wherein the social media data indicate death of the one or more individuals in the control group.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the underwriting class corresponds to one of a premium or a discount for the health service product.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the health service product comprises a life insurance or a health insurance product.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the set of health assertions for the health trivia session comprise multiple choice health assertions or questions.
17. A computer-executed method of implementing mortality prediction for a health service, the method being performed by one or more processors of a computing system and comprising: communicating, over one or more wireless networks, with computing devices of users of a health service; executing a correlation model to determine a correlation value for each respective health assertion in a collection of health assertions based on (i) answers to the respective health assertion provided by individuals in a control group, and (ii) known health outcomes of each individual in the control group, wherein the correlation value for each respective health assertion in the collection corresponds to a set of health correlations between knowledge associated with the respective health assertion and the known health outcomes of the individuals in the control group, wherein the collection of health assertions are configured to test general health knowledge of the user of the health service and not query user-specific information of the users; generating, over the one or more wireless networks, a health trivia session to be presented on a computing device of a user, the health trivia session comprising a set of health assertions from the collection of health assertions; receiving, over the one or more wireless networks, a corresponding set of responses to the set of health assertions from the computing device of the user; for each response in the corresponding set of responses, determining a correctness for the response, the correctness indicating whether the user answered a corresponding health assertion correctly or incorrectly; based on (i) the correctness of each response in the corresponding set of responses, and (ii) the correlation value of each health assertion in the set of health assertions provided during the trivia session, generating a mortality profile for the user, the mortality profile corresponding to a predicted life expectancy of the user; based on the mortality profile of the user, determining an underwriting class for a health service product for the user; and generating, over the one or more wireless networks, a service customer interface to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the service customer interface enabling the user to purchase the health service product in the specified underwriting class.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: accessing, over the one or more wireless networks, social media content of the user; based on the social media content, classifying the user into one or more lifestyle categories.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the computing system further generates the mortality profile for the user based on the one or more lifestyle categories of the user as determined from the social media content.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: accessing, over the one or more wireless networks, social media data associated with one or more individuals in the control group; wherein the computing system determines the known health outcomes of the one or more individuals in the control group based, at least in part, on the social media data.
</claims>
</document>
