<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/14,G06Q20/20,G06Q20/24,G06Q20/38,G06Q20/40,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAIN, RAHUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70972008
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE BLOCKCHAIN FOR CUSTOMIZED INTERCHANGE DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
An example operation may include one or more of identifying, via a cognitive system, that a change in a creditworthiness attribute of a cardholder has occurred with respect to a previous creditworthiness of the cardholder, in response to identifying the change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder, dynamically determining a custom interchange value for the cardholder to be used in payment transactions based on a current credit data of the cardholder, transmitting the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder to one or more blockchain peer nodes, and storing the dynamically determined custom interchange value in a hash-linked chain of blocks via a distributed ledger.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a processor configured to identify, via a cognitive system, a change in a creditworthiness attribute of a cardholder has occurred with respect to a previous creditworthiness of the cardholder, and in response to identification of the change in the creditworthiness attribute, dynamically determine a custom interchange value for the cardholder to be used in payment transactions based on a current credit data of the cardholder; a network interface configured to transmit the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder to one or more blockchain peer nodes; and a storage configured to store the dynamically determined custom interchange value in a hash-linked chain of blocks via a distributed ledger.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the dynamically determined custom interchange value defines a fee to be charged by an entity that covers a cost of credit risk in a payment transaction of the cardholder.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the identified change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder comprises an identified change in one or more of a credit score, an amount of time that has passed since the previous creditworthiness was determined, a card type, and a business size, associated with the cardholder.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to dynamically determine the custom interchange value for the cardholder based on a plurality of attributes included in an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of an issuer of a payment account of the cardholder.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to dynamically determine the custom interchange value based on a credit data of other cardholders received from a plurality of blockchain peer nodes.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to replace a previously assigned custom interchange value of the cardholder with a new custom interchange value that comprises a different value.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the network interface is further configured to receive an authorization request from a merchant point-of-sale (POS) terminal and transmit an authorization response to the merchant POS terminal which comprises the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder stored in the hash-linked chain of blocks.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to store the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder via a blockchain on the distributed ledger in response to a consensus by a plurality of nodes of the blockchain.
9. A method comprising: identifying, via a cognitive system, that a change in a creditworthiness attribute of a cardholder has occurred with respect to a previous creditworthiness of the cardholder; in response to identifying the change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder, dynamically determining a custom interchange value for the cardholder to be used in payment transactions based on a current credit data of the cardholder; transmitting the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder to one or more blockchain peer nodes; and storing the dynamically determined custom interchange value in a hash-linked chain of blocks via a distributed ledger.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the dynamically determined custom interchange value defines a fee to be charged by an entity that covers a cost of credit risk in a payment transaction of the cardholder.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the identified change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder comprises an identified change in one or more of a credit score, an amount of time that has passed since the previous creditworthiness was determined, a card type, and a business size, associated with the cardholder.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the dynamically determining comprises dynamically determining the custom interchange value for the cardholder based on a plurality of attributes included in an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system of an issuer of a payment account of the cardholder.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the dynamically determining comprises dynamically determining the custom interchange value based on a credit data of other cardholders received from a plurality of blockchain peer nodes.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the dynamically determining the custom interchange value comprises replacing a previously assigned custom interchange value of the cardholder with a new custom interchange value comprising a different value.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving an authorization request from a merchant point-of-sale (POS) terminal and transmitting an authorization response to the merchant POS terminal which comprises the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder stored in the hash-linked chain of blocks.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the storing on the distributed ledger comprises storing the dynamically determined custom interchange value for he cardholder, data chunk hashes and sizes in response to a consensus by a plurality of nodes of the blockchain.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that when read by a processor cause the processor to perform a method comprising: identifying, via a cognitive system, that a change in a creditworthiness attribute of a cardholder has occurred with respect to a previous creditworthiness of the cardholder; in response to identifying the change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder, dynamically determining a custom interchange value for the cardholder to be used in payment transactions based on a current credit data of the cardholder; transmitting the dynamically determined custom interchange value for the cardholder to one or more blockchain peer nodes; and storing the dynamically determined custom interchange value in a hash-linked chain of blocks via a distributed ledger.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the dynamically determined custom interchange value defines a fee to be charged by an entity that covers a cost of credit risk in a payment transaction of the cardholder.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the identified change in the creditworthiness attribute of the cardholder comprises an identified of one or more of a credit score, an amount of time that has passed since the previous creditworthiness was determined, a card type, and a business size, associated with the cardholder.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the dynamically determining comprises dynamically determining the custom interchange value based on a credit data of other cardholders received from a plurality of blockchain peer nodes.
</claims>
</document>
