<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SERVICENOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMAMURTHY, ADITYA
THUMMALAPALLI, SWAROOP GNANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68054046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTERNET OF THINGS (IOT) PLATFORM FOR DEVICE CONFIGURATION MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for management of Internet of Things (IOT) devices are disclosed. IOT devices may be manufactured with a pre-installed software development kit (SDK) (e.g., in firmware or other storage). At initial startup time (e.g., after device placement), IOT devices may execute the firmware code as provided by the SDK to connect to a corporate network or other network-based control environment, such as a cloud-based service provider infrastructure. Once connected, IOT devices may participate in enterprise computing applications as a consumer or provider of information. Updates to IOT devices and their SDKs may be periodically provided. Virtual IOT devices may be used as placeholders or emulators for unavailable or future IOT devices, such that enterprise applications may be configured and executed without an actual physical IOT device in existence. Virtual IOT devices may also be used to assist with overall device provisioning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus configured as an interne of things (IOT) endpoint device, comprising: a processor; a memory storing computer instructions including a software development kit (SDK), the SDK provided, at least in part, by an enterprise system service provider; and a network interface communicatively coupled to the processor and the memory, wherein the processor executes the instructions to cause the apparatus to: establish an automatic connection to a cloud-based management server customer instance, the automatic connection established using the network interface and a first connection to a private network, a second connection from the private network to a public network, and a third connection from the public network to the cloud-based management server customer instance; transmit information regarding control and command capability of the IOT endpoint device using a communication mechanism facilitated by the SDK to the cloud-based management server customer instance, the transmitted information comprising a set of actions applicable to the IOT endpoint device, wherein at least one action from the set of actions is previously not known at the cloud-based management server customer instance; receive and respond to requests for information from the cloud-based management server customer instance to provide information sufficient to integrate the apparatus into a workflow defined on the customer instance and supported by the cloud-based management server maintained by the enterprise system service provider; and receive a command request initiated by the cloud-based management server customer instance to initiate at least one of the set of actions.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the set of actions includes an action to control a physical component of the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further include instructions to cause the processor to receive an update to at least a portion of the SDK.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the computer instructions further include instructions to cause the processor to perform an orderly shutdown as part of receiving the update.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computer instructions further include instructions to cause the processor to receive an authentication token uniquely identifying the IOT endpoint device and using the authentication token for future automatic connections to the cloud-based management server customer instance.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the IOT endpoint device includes a fan and fan control logic, a valve and valve control logic, a temperature sensor and temperature control logic, or a positioning measurement device.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the workflow defined on the customer instance comprises a help desk application, an incident reporting application, or a service level agreement application.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the set of actions includes one or more actions to integrate the IOT endpoint device into the workflow as a configuration item element representing a component affected by the workflow.
9. An internet of things (IOT) endpoint device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, accessible by the processor, the memory storing instructions provided, at least in part, by an enterprise system service provider, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: establishing an automatic connection to a cloud-based management server customer instance; transmitting, to the cloud-based management server customer instance, information regarding control and command capability of the IOT endpoint device, the transmitted information comprising a set of actions applicable to the IOT endpoint device, wherein at least one action of the set of actions was previously not known by the cloud-based management server customer instance; receiving, from the cloud-based management server customer instance, a request for information to integrate the IOT endpoint device into a workflow defined on the customer instance and supported by the cloud-based management server maintained by the enterprise system service provider; transmitting, to the cloud-based management server customer instance, the information to integrate the IOT endpoint device into the workflow; and receiving a command request initiated by the cloud-based management server customer instance to initiate an action of the set of actions.
10. The IOT endpoint device of claim 9, the operations comprising: receiving, from the cloud-based management server customer instance, an update to at least a portion of the instructions.
11. The IOT endpoint device of claim 10, the operations comprising postponing the update based on an operational state of a physical component of the IOT endpoint device.
12. The IOT endpoint device of claim 10, the operations comprising performing a shutdown of a physical component of the IOT endpoint device.
13. The IOT endpoint device of claim 9, the operations comprising transmitting, to the cloud-based management server customer instance, location data associated with the IOT endpoint device.
14. The IOT endpoint device of claim 9, wherein the command request is received via a virtual IOT device.
15. The IOT endpoint device of claim 14, the operations comprising transmitting information to the cloud-based management server customer instance via the virtual IOT device.
16. The IOT endpoint device of claim 14, the operations comprising receiving a second command request to initiate a second action of the set of actions from a queue via the virtual IOT device.
17. A method, comprising: establishing, via an internet of things (IOT) endpoint device, an automatic connection to a cloud-based management server customer instance; transmitting, to the cloud-based management server customer instance, via a communication mechanism to the cloud-based management server customer instance, information regarding control and command capability of an internet of things (IOT) endpoint device, the transmitted information comprising a set of actions applicable to the IOT endpoint device, wherein at least one action of the set of actions was previously not known by the cloud-based management server customer instance; receiving, from the cloud-based management server customer instance, a request for information to integrate the IOT endpoint device into a workflow defined on the customer instance and supported by the cloud-based management server maintained by an enterprise system service provider; transmitting, to the cloud-based management server customer instance, the information to integrate the IOT endpoint device into the workflow; and receiving a command request initiated by the cloud-based management server customer instance to initiate an action of the set of actions.
18. The method of claim 17, comprising: receiving, from the cloud-based management server customer instance, an update to instructions stored in memory of the IOT endpoint device; performing, in response to receiving the update, a shutdown of a physical component of the IOT endpoint device; and re-establishing the automatic connection to the cloud-based management server customer instance.
19. The method of claim 18, comprising receiving, in response to re-establishing the automatic connection, a second command request to initiate a second action of the set of actions from a queue via a virtual IOT device.
20. The method of claim 18, comprising receiving, in response to establishing the automatic connection, an authentication token uniquely identifying the IOT endpoint device.
</claims>
</document>
