<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRADING TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIEDRAITIS, PAUL
PHILLIPS, CAROLYN
RUBINO, MELANIE
WIDERHORN, DAVID I.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69230207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Applied Artificial Intelligence Technology for Processing Trade Data to Detect Patterns Indicative of Potential Trade Spoofing
</title>

<abstract>
Various techniques are described for using machine-learning artificial intelligence to improve how trading data can be processed to detect improper trading behaviors such as trade spoofing. In an example embodiment, semi-supervised machine learning is applied to positively labeled and unlabeled training data to develop a classification model that distinguishes between trading behavior likely to qualify as trade spoofing and trading behavior not likely to qualify as trade spoofing. Also, clustering techniques can be employed to segment larger sets of training data and trading data into bursts of trading activities that are to be assessed for potential trade spoofing status.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A method including: receiving by a computer system trading data, wherein the trading data includes a plurality of time-stamped trade events with respect to a financial instrument in a financial market; grouping by the computer system trade events in the trading data into a plurality of trading clusters based at least in part on a burst interval time parameter; applying by the computer system data that represents each trading cluster of the plurality of the trading clusters to a trained classification model data structure to determine a spoofing classification status for each applied trading cluster, wherein the trained classification model data structure was created in response to the application of a machine-learning artificial intelligence to training data, wherein the spoofing classification status indicates a likelihood that the applied trading cluster describes trade spoofing in the financial market; computing by the computer system a spoofing risk score for each trading cluster of the plurality of the trading clusters based on the determined spoofing classification status for each respective trading cluster; comparing by the computer system the computed spoofing risk scores with a threshold; and generating by the computer system a notification with respect to a spoofing risk score that is found to exceed the threshold.
3. The method of claim 2, further including: repeatedly applying by the computer system the machine-learning artificial intelligence over time with respect to additional sets of training data to update the trained classification model data structure.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein grouping the trade events further includes, for each of a plurality of the trading clusters, including a plurality of trade events in that trading cluster that relate to the same orders that are subjects of the trade events that had been grouped into that trading cluster based on the burst interval time parameter.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the burst interval time parameter includes a static value.
6. The method of claim 2, further including: dynamically computing by the computer system the burst interval time parameter as a function of at least one member of the group of: (1) the trading data and (2) financial market data relating to the trading data.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the trading data within each of a plurality of the trading clusters is specific to a member of the group of: (1) trades by a single trader with respect to one or more financial instruments, (2) trades by a single trading account with respect to one or more financial instruments, (3) trades by a specified group of traders with respect to one or more financial instruments, and (4) trades by a specified group of trading accounts with respect to one or more financial instruments.
8. The method of claim 2, further including: computing by the computer system a plurality of values for a plurality of features with respect to each of a plurality of the trading clusters, wherein the computed feature values serve as the applied data that represents the trading clusters.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one feature of the plurality of features includes a value representing a comparative ratio of the trading data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of the features further includes at least two members of the group of: (1) a value relating to market context, (2) a measurement of a trading book imbalance, (3) a measurement of concealing market interest, and (4) a measurement of rapid addition or removal of order volume from a top of a trading book.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the comparative ratio includes at least one member of the group of: (1) a ratio of an average order size of non-filled orders to an average order size of filled orders, (2) a ratio of the average order size of filled orders to the average order size of non-filled orders, (3) a ratio of (i) a ratio of orders placed versus orders canceled to (ii) a ratio of orders placed versus orders filled, and (4) a gross ratio of filled orders versus non-filled orders.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the ratio of the average order size of non-filled orders to the average order size of filled orders further includes at least one sub-metric calculated by at least one of: (1) an average order size of non-filled buy orders versus filled buy orders, (2) an average order size of non-filled sell orders versus filled sell orders, (3) an average order size of non-filled buy orders versus filled sell orders, and (4) an average order size of non-filled sell orders versus filled buy orders; wherein the ratio of the average order size of filled orders to the average order size of non-filled orders further includes at least one sub-metric calculated by at least one of: (1) a total amount of filled buy orders versus non-filled buy orders, (2) a total amount of filled sell orders versus non-filled sell orders, (3) a total amount of filled buy orders versus non-filled sell orders, and (4) a total amount of filled sell orders versus non-filled buy orders; wherein the ratio of (i) the ratio of orders placed versus orders canceled to (ii) the ratio of orders placed versus orders filled further includes at least one sub-metric calculated by at least one of: (1) a total amount of canceled buy orders versus placed buy orders, (2) a total amount of filled buy orders versus placed buy orders, (3) a total amount of canceled sell orders versus placed sell orders, and (4) a total amount of filed sell orders versus placed sell orders; and wherein the gross ratio of filled orders versus non-filled orders further includes at least one sub-metric calculated by at least one of: (1) a total amount of filled buy orders versus non-filled buy orders, and (2) a total amount of filled sell orders versus non-filled sell orders.
13. The method of claim 2, wherein the application of the machine-learning artificial intelligence to the training data includes applying semi-supervised machine-learning classification to the training data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the semi-supervised machine-learning classification includes two-stage machine-learning classification.
15. The method of claim 2, wherein the training data includes positively labeled training data, wherein the positively labeled training data includes a plurality of clusters of trading data that are classified as indicative of trade spoofing in a financial market.
16. The method of claim 2, wherein the training data includes unlabeled training data, wherein the unlabeled training data includes a plurality of clusters of trading data that are unclassified as to whether they are indicative of trade spoofing in a financial market.
17. The method of claim 2, wherein the training data further includes negatively labeled training data, wherein the negatively labeled training data includes a plurality of clusters of trading data that are classified as not being indicative of trade spoofing in a financial market.
18. The method of claim 2, wherein the grouping, the applying, the computing, the comparing, and the generating are performed in real-time as new trading data is received.
19. The method of claim 2, wherein the computer system includes a plurality of processors that are part of a distributed computing architecture, wherein the processors perform the grouping, the applying, the computing, the comparing, and the generating in parallel.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the distributed computing architecture includes a cloud computing platform, wherein the cloud computing platform operates in real-time as trading clusters are formed.
</claims>
</document>
