<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/28,G01N21/3581,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NATIONAL UNIVERSITY OF SINGAPORE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU, YANG
YANG, HYUNSOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65438788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADVANCED THZ SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A THz data acquisition and analysis system, use of the THz data analysis system, and a THz data acquisition and analysis method. THz data acquisition and analysis method comprises performing a THz spectroscopy measurement on a sample; acquiring sample data based on the THz spectroscopy measurement; and performing a comparison between the sample data and reference data for identifying the sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A THz data acquisition and analysis system comprising: a THz spectrometer configured for performing a THz spectroscopy measurement on a sample; a data acquisition unit configured for acquiring sample data based on the THz spectroscopy measurement; and a processing unit configured for performing a comparison between the sample data and reference data for identifying the sample.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is be configured for enriching the reference data by performing machine learning using the sample data upon identification.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2, comprising a database for the reference data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the database also contains a refractive index of a list of materials.
5. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the reference data are stored in a shared data centre external to the system, such as in a cloud data base.
6. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the processing unit comprises a computing device with an operation system and/or a standalone device, such as field-programmable gate array (FPGA) modules.
7. The system of any one of the preceding claims, the processing unit is further configured to determine the refractive index of the sample.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to analyse multi-reflection peak positions for the sample with known thickness, and to calculate the refractive index of the sample, which may include performing machine learning.
9. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the processing unit is configured to measure the thickness of the sample.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processing unit is configured to analyse multi-reflection peak positions of the sample with known refractive index, and to extract the thickness of the sample.
11. The system of claim 9 or 10, wherein the processing unit is configured to calculate the optical conductivity of the sample based on measurement of the transmission or reflection of the sample.
12. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the THz spectrometer is configured for near-field imaging of the sample.
13. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the THz spectrometer comprises an array of emitters and/or an array of detectors.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein a number of emitters and a number of detectors are the same or different.
15. The system of claim 13 or 14, wherein the array of emitters is mounted on a substrate.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the array of detectors is mounted on another substrate or on the same substrate.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the substrate or substrates are flexible.
18. The system of any one of claims 15 to 16, wherein at least one of the substrates is configured for supporting and/or conforming to the sample.
19. The system of any one of the preceding claims, configured as a portable unit.
20. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the THz spectrometer is configured to receive a laser beam for excitation of the THz signal via a free space interface and/or a waveguide interface, such as an optical fibre interface.
21. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the system is incorporated into an existing surveillance or healthcare apparatus, such as an X-ray scanning apparatus or a metal detector.
22. The system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the system comprises a robotic arm for positioning at least the THz spectrometer relative to the sample.
23. The use of the system of any one of the preceding claims in one or more of a group consisting of safety surveillance; disease diagnosis, including the analysis of biopsy, metabolite, and slide analysis; in skin diagnosis, wherein flexible THz emitters and/or detectors can be bent to fit the human body curvature for accurate analysis; in eye inspection, wherein flexible THz emitters and/or detectors can be bent to fit the cornea curvature for more accurate analysis; in dental care, wherein THz phase array antenna can be applied for a high speed dental check, for instance, for the tooth decay depth before root canal therapy; painting analysis; poisonous gas/air pollution detection; product quality check; beauty treatment & therapy and restoration of cultural relics.
24. A THz data acquisition and analysis method comprising: performing a THz spectroscopy measurement on a sample; acquiring sample data based on the THz spectroscopy measurement; and performing a comparison between the sample data and reference data for identifying the sample.
25. The method of claim 24, comprising enriching the reference data using the sample data upon identification.
26. The method of claim 24 or 25, comprising using a database for the reference data.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the database contains the refractive index of a list of materials.
28. The method of any one of claims 24 to 27, wherein the reference data are stored in a shared data centre external to the system, such as in a cloud data base.
29. The method of any one of claims 24 to 28, comprising determining the refractive index of the sample.
30. The method of claim 29, comprising analysing multi-reflection peak positions for the sample with a known thickness, and calculating the refractive index of the sample, which may include performing machine learning.
31. The method of any one of claims 24 to 30, comprising measuring the thickness of the sample.
32. The method of claim 31, comprising analysing multi-reflection peak positions of the sample with a known refractive index, and extracting the thickness of the sample.
33. The method of claim 31 or 32, comprising calculating the optical conductivity of the sample based on measurement of the transmission or reflection of the sample.
34. The method of any one of claims 24 to 33, comprising performing the THz spectroscopy measurement by near-field imaging of the sample.
35. The method of any one of claims 24 to 34, wherein the THz spectroscopy measurement comprises using an array of emitters and/or an arrays of detectors.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein a number of emitters and a number of detectors are the same or different.
37. The method of claim 35 or 36, wherein the array of emitters is mounted on a substrate.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the array of detectors is mounted on another substrate or on the same substrate.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the substrate or substrates are flexible.
40. The method of any one of claims 37 to 39, comprising configuring at least one of the substrates for supporting and/or conforming to the sample.
41. The method of any one of claims 24 to 40, performed using a portable unit.
42. The method of any one of claims 24 to 41, wherein the THz spectroscopy measurement comprises receiving a laser beam for excitation of the THz signal via a free space interface and/or a waveguide interface, such as an optical fibre interface.
43. The method of any one of claims 24 to 42, wherein the method is incorporated into an existing surveillance or healthcare method, such as an X-ray scanning method or a metal detector.
44. The method of any one of claims 24 to 43, comprising using a robotic arm for positioning relative to the sample.
</claims>
</document>
