<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAMICK, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67845073
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOUD-BASED SYSTEM FOR PROTECTING SENSITIVE INFORMATION IN SHARED CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
Cloud-based methods and systems for content sharing are disclosed. In some embodiments, the systems may include one or more processors configured to: receive, from a client device, an instruction for sharing a designated digital asset; retrieve the designated digital asset from a storage device; determine provenance of the designated digital asset based on metadata of the designated digital asset; generate authentication information based on the provenance of the designated digital asset; identify sensitive information in the designated digital asset; generate a redacted version of the designated digital asset by modifying content of the designated digital asset to alter the identified sensitive information; and provide the redacted version and authentication information of the designated digital asset to a recipient of the designated digital asset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A system for sharing data, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processors in communication with a storage device and configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a client device, an instruction for sharing a designated digital asset stored in the storage device, the designated digital asset comprising an image; analyzing content of the designated digital asset to identify sensitive information, the analyzing comprising extracting a feature from the image to determine that the feature represents a face of a predetermined person; generating, based on the analysis of the content, a redacted version of the designated digital asset to obscure the feature in the image; and providing, to a designated recipient of the digital asset, the redacted version of the designated digital asset.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein extracting the feature from the image comprises extracting the feature using a facial recognition algorithm.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein determining that the feature represents the face of the predetermined person comprises comparing the feature to a prestored feature associated with the predetermined person.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein generating the redacted version of the designated digital asset comprises obscuring a representation of the face of the predetermined person in the image.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a provenance of the designated digital asset based on metadata of the designated digital asset, the provenance of the designated digital asset including at least one of a source of the designated digital asset, a historical operation performed on the designated digital asset, or a chain of custody of the designated digital asset; generating authentication information indicating whether the digital asset is authentic based on the provenance of the designated digital asset; and providing, to the designated recipient, the generated authentication information.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the authentication information includes a digital signature of the designated digital asset.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise providing for display, to the client device, a preview of the redacted version.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the client device, user feedback associated with the preview of the redacted version; and updating the redacted version of the designated digital asset based on the received user feedback.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the user feedback includes digital annotations on the preview of the redacted version.
30. A computer-implemented method for sharing content, the method comprising: receiving, from a client device, an instruction for sharing a designated digital asset, the designated digital asset comprising an image; determining that a feature extracted from the image represents a face of a predetermined person; generating a redacted version of the designated digital asset to obscure the feature in the image; and providing, to a designated recipient of the digital asset, the redacted version of the designated digital asset.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the feature is extracted from the image using a facial recognition algorithm.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein determining that the feature represents the face of the predetermined person comprises comparing the feature to a stored feature associated with the predetermined person.
33. The method of claim 30, wherein generating the redacted version of the designated digital asset comprises obscuring a representation of the face of the predetermined person in the image.
34. The method of claim 30, further comprising: determining a provenance of the designated digital asset based on metadata of the designated digital asset; generating authentication information indicating whether the digital asset is authentic based on the provenance of the designated digital asset; and providing, to the designated recipient, the generated authentication information.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein the provenance of the designated digital asset includes a source of the designated digital asset, a historical operation performed on the designated digital asset, or a chain of custody of the designated digital asset.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein the authentication information comprises at least one of an authentication certificate, a digital signature, or an authentication report.
37. The method of claim 30, further comprising providing for display, to the client device, a preview of the redacted version.
38. The method of claim 37, further comprising: receiving, from the client device, feedback associated with the preview of the redacted version; and updating the redacted version of the designated digital asset based on the received user feedback.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein the feedback includes digital annotations on the preview of the redacted version.
40. A system for sharing data, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processors in communication with a storage device and configured to execute the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving an instruction for sharing a designated digital asset, the designated digital asset comprising an image; determining provenance information of the designated digital asset; determining that a feature extracted from the image represents a face of a predetermined person based on a stored feature associated with the predetermined person; generating a redacted version of the designated digital asset to obscure a representation of a face of the predetermined person in the image; and providing, to a designated recipient of the digital asset, the redacted version of the designated digital asset and the provenance information.
</claims>
</document>
