<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04L12/58,H04L29/08,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, SHELDON
PAVLOVSKAIA, MARIA
ALLEN, NICHOLAS RICHARD
YANG, JIANCHAO
SHAHNAWAZ, AMER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59788770
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION, CURATION, AND PRESENTATION OF MEDIA COLLECTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for receiving, at a first computing device, a request from a user to activate a new media collection, sending, by the first computing device, the request to a server computer for activation of the new media collection, receiving, by the first computing device, confirmation that the new media collection was activated, receiving, at the first computing device, a plurality of content messages associated with the new media collection, receiving, at the first computing device, from the user, a selection of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection, sending, to the server computer, an indication of the selection of the content messages to be included in the new media collection, wherein the server computer causes the selection of content messages to be included in the new media collection and displayed in response to a request from at least a second computing device to view the new media collection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a first computing device, a request from a user to activate a new media collection, the new media collection to be accessible only for a predetermined window of time and to comprise a default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; receiving, at the first computing device, input decreasing or increasing the default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; sending, by the first computing device, the request to a server computer for activation of the new media collection including the input to decrease or increase the default geographic boundary size for where media content originates; receiving, by the first computing device, confirmation that the new media collection was activated for the decreased or increased geographic boundary size for where media content originates; and causing a plurality of content messages comprising media content originating in the decreased or increased geographical boundary size to be included in the new media collection and displayed in response to a request from at least a second computing device to view the new media collection based on determining the request occurs within the predetermined window of time that the new media collection is accessible.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the new media collection is no longer accessible after the predetermined window of time.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from one or more computing devices, a plurality of content messages originating in the decreased or increased geographic boundary size and associated with the new media collection for selection to include in the new media collection, the content messages comprising photos and video; causing display of the plurality of content messages comprising photos and video for selection to include in the new media collection; receiving a selected a subset of the plurality of content messages displayed, to be included in the new media collection; sending, to a server computer, an indication of the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection; and wherein the server computer causes the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection includes at least one content message from the second computing device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein only users within a geofence associated with the geographic boundary size will be given an option to send content messages to be included in the new media collection.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one contributor and wherein the at least one contributor is a user that is located within the geofence for the new media collection.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one contributor and wherein the at least one contributor is a user that has permission to send content messages to be included in the new media collection.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one audience member and wherein the at least one audience member is a user who has permission to view the new media collection.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a specified max audience to which the new media collection may be shared; and wherein the max audience includes users located within a geofence associated with the new media collection and users located outside the geofence associated with the new media collection.
10. A device comprising: a memory that stores instructions; and at least one hardware processor configured by the instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving a request from a user to activate a new media collection, the new media collection to be accessible only for a predetermined window of time and to comprise a default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; receiving input decreasing or increasing the default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; sending the request to a server computer for activation of the new media collection including the input to decrease or increase the default geographic boundary size for where media content originates; receiving confirmation that the new media collection was activated for the decreased or increased geographic boundary size for where media content originates; and causing a plurality of content messages comprising media content originating in the decreased or increased geographical boundary size to be included in the new media collection and displayed in response to a request from at least a second computing device to view the new media collection based on determining the request occurs within the increased predetermined window of time that the new media collection is accessible.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the new media collection is no longer accessible after the predetermined window of time.
12. The device of claim 10, the operations further comprising: receiving, from one or more computing devices, a plurality of content messages originating in the decreased or increased geographic boundary size and associated with the new media collection for selection to include in the new media collection, the content messages comprising photos and video; causing display of the plurality of content messages comprising photos and video for selection to include in the new media collection; receiving a selected a subset of the plurality of content messages displayed, to be included in the new media collection: sending, to a server computer, an indication of the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection; and wherein the server computer causes the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection includes at least one content message from the second computing device.
14. The device of claim 10, wherein only users within a geofence associated with the geographic boundary size will be given an option to send content messages to be included in the new media collection.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one contributor and wherein the at least one contributor is a user that is located within the geofence for the new media collection.
16. The device of claim 10, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one contributor and wherein the at least one contributor is a user that has permission to send content messages to be included in the new media collection.
17. The device of claim 10, wherein the request to activate a new media collection includes at least one audience member and wherein the at least one audience member is a user who has permission to view the new media collection.
18. The device of claim 10, the operations further comprising: receiving a specified max audience to which the new media collection may be shared; and wherein the max audience includes users located within a geofence associated with the new media collection and users located outside the geofence associated with the new media collection.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon that are executable by at least one processor to cause a computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving a request from a user to activate a new media collection, the new media collection to be accessible only for a predetermined window of time and to comprise a default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; receiving input decreasing or increasing the default geographic boundary size for where media content for the media collection originates; sending the request to a server computer for activation of the new media collection including the input to decrease or increase the default geographic boundary size for where media content originates; receiving confirmation that the new media collection was activated for the decreased or increased geographic boundary size for where media content originates; and causing a plurality of content messages comprising media content originating in the decreased or increased geographical boundary size to be included in the new media collection and displayed in response to a request from at least a second computing device to view the new media collection based on determining the request occurs within the increased predetermined window of time that the new media collection is accessible.
20. The computer readable medium of claim 19, the operations further comprising: receiving, from one or more computing devices, a plurality of content messages originating in the decreased or increased geographic boundary size and associated with the new media collection for selection to include in the new media collection, the content messages comprising photos and video; causing display of the plurality of content messages comprising photos and video for selection to include in the new media collection: receiving a selected a subset of the plurality of content messages displayed, to be included in the new media collection; sending, to a server computer, an indication of the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection; and wherein the server computer causes the selected subset of the plurality of content messages to be included in the new media collection.
</claims>
</document>
