<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/00,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,H04M11/04,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANJO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DODD, MICHAEL B.
GRATTON, CHRISTIAN
MEHTA, RISH
PATTON, DAMIEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71125306
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VALIDATING AND SUPPLEMENTING EMERGENCY CALL INFORMATION REMOVING PRIVATE INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for validating and supplementing emergency call information removing private information. A Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) receives an emergency (e.g., 911) call from a mobile device. Parts of the emergency call are processed to identify an emergency call location. Characteristics of the emergency call are combined with characteristics of other signals to identify an emergency call event, including an event location. The emergency call event is sent to the PSAP. Prior to receiving phase II data, and possibly even prior to receiving phase I data, the PSAP receives the event. The PSAP tailors dispatch of emergency resources responding to the emergency call based on characteristics of the event, including the event location. A privacy infrastructure spans signal ingestion, event detection, and event notification and protects the integrity of private information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a normalized emergency call signal derived from an emergency call that: was routed from a carrier network to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and includes user information; removing at least a portion of the user information from the normalized emergency call signal; identifying a probable location from features of the normalized emergency call signal subsequent to removing the at least a portion of the user information; accessing another normalized signal within a specified distance of the probable location; validating the probable location, from features of the other signal, to establish a validated location; detecting an event from the features of normalized emergency call signal based on the validated origination location; associating the validated location and a probability that the event is true with the event; and sending the event, along with the validated location and the probability, to the PSAP notifying the PSAP of additional data related to the original emergency call.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a severity based on the features of the normalized emergency call signal and the features of the other normalized signal; and associating the severity in the event; and wherein sending the event comprising sending the event along with the severity.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a normalized emergency call signal including user information comprises receiving a normalized emergency call signal that includes one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI).
4. The method of claim 1, wherein removing at least a portion of the user information from the normalized emergency call signal comprises removing one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI) from the normalized emergency call signal.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a normalized emergency call signal comprises receiving a normalized emergency call signal in a Time, Location, Context (TLC) format; and wherein accessing the other normalized signal comprises accessing the other normalized signal in the TLC format.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the normalized emergency call signal comprises receiving the normalized signal normalized from an audio overlay indicating the probable call location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the event to the PSAP further comprises sending the event to the PSAP prior to the carrier network sending phase II data to the PSAP.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing another normalized signal comprises accessing the other normalized signal that includes other user information; further comprising removing at least a portion of the other user information from the other signal; and wherein validating the probable location comprises validating the probable location subsequent to removing the at least a portion of the other user information.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein accessing another normalized signal comprises accessing the other normalized signal that includes one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI).
10. The method of claim 8, wherein removing at least a portion of the other user information from the other signal comprises removing one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI) from the other signal.
11. A system comprising: a processor; system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: receive a normalized emergency call signal derived from an emergency call that was routed from a carrier network to a Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) and including user information; remove at least a portion of the user information from the normalized emergency call signal; identify a probable location from features of the normalized emergency call signal subsequent to removing the at least a portion of the user information; access one or more additional normalized signals within a specified distance of the probable origination location; validate the probable location, from features of the one or more additional signals, to establish a validated location; detect an event from the features of normalized emergency call signal based on the validated origination location; associate the validated location and a probability that the event is true with the event; and send the event, along with the validated location and the probability, to the PSAP notifying the PSAP of additional data related to the original emergency call.
12. The system of claim 11, further comprising instructions configured to: determine a severity based on the features of the normalized emergency call signal and the features of the other normalized signal; and associate the severity in the event; and wherein instructions configured to send the event comprise instructions configured to send the event along with the severity.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to receive a normalized emergency call signal including user information comprise instructions configured to receive a normalized emergency call signal that includes one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI).
14. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to remove at least a portion of the user information from the normalized emergency call signal comprise instructions configured to remove one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI) from the normalized emergency call signal.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions configured to receive a normalized emergency call signal comprise instructions configured to receive a normalized emergency call signal in a Time, Location, Context (TLC) format; and wherein instructions configured to access one or more additional normalized signals comprise instructions configured to access one or more additional normalized signals in the TLC format.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions configured to receive a normalized emergency call signal comprise instructions configured to receive a normalized signal normalized from an audio overlay indicating the call location.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions configured to send the event comprise instructions configured to send the event to the PSAP prior to the carrier network sending phase II data to the PSAP.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein instructions configured to access another normalized signal comprise instructions configured to access the other normalized signal that includes other user information; further comprising instructions configured to remove at least a portion of the other user information from the other signal; and wherein instructions configured to validate the probable location comprise instructions configured to validate the probable location subsequent to removing the at least a portion of the other user information.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein instructions configured to access another normalized signal comprise instructions configured to access the other normalized signal that includes one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI).
20. The system of claim 18, wherein instructions configured to remove at least a portion of the other user information from the other signal comprise instructions configured to remove one or more of: confidential information, patient information, personally identifiable information (PII), personal health information (PHI), sensitive personal information (SPI), or Payment Card Industry information (PCI) from the other signal.
</claims>
</document>
