<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06N5/00,G06N7/02,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KALAGNANAM, JAYANT R.
IDE, TSUYOSHI
PHAN, DZUNG
MENICKELLY, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69523054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING SPARSITY-CONSTRAINED GAUSSIAN GRAPHICAL MODELS IN ANOMALY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A first dependency graph is constructed based on a first data set by solving an objective function constrained with a maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with a regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty to control sparsity. The quadratic penalty in constructing the second dependency graph is determined as a function of the first data set. A second dependency graph is constructed based on a second data set by solving the objective function constrained with the maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with the regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty. The quadratic penalty in constructing the second dependency graph is determined as a function of the first data set and the second data set. An anomaly score is determined for each of a plurality of sensors based on comparing the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph, nodes of which represent sensors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a first data set comprising sensor data detected by a plurality of sensors coupled to equipments in operation during a first period of time; constructing a first dependency graph based on the first data set by solving a first objective function constrained with a maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with a regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty to control sparsity, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set in constructing the first dependency graph; receiving a second data set comprising sensor data detected by the plurality of sensors coupled to the equipments in operation during a second period of time; constructing a second dependency graph based on the second data set by solving the first objective function constrained with the maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with the regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set and the second data set in constructing the second dependency graph; and determining an anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors based on comparing the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to determining that an anomaly score associated with a sensor in the plurality of sensors meets a threshold value indicative of abnormal functioning, automatically performing a corrective action to correct equipment coupled to the sensor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first object function is solved by a projected gradient algorithm.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the projected gradient algorithm embeds an approximate Newton method, wherein feasibility with respect to sparsity constraint is handled via projection, and a symmetric positive-definiteness of iterates is ensured through a line-search procedure.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a conditional expected Kullback-Liebler divergence between the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a stochastic nearest neighbors algorithm measuring dissimilarity between neighborhood of i-th variable representing a sensor between the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a sparsest subgraph approximation based on the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the equipments comprise equipments of an industrial process.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the equipments comprise equipments of a manufacturing process manufacturing a product.
10. A computer readable storage device storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform a method comprising: receiving a first data set comprising sensor data detected by a plurality of sensors coupled to equipments in operation during a first period of time; constructing a first dependency graph based on the first data set by solving a first objective function constrained with a maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with a regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty to control sparsity, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set in constructing the first dependency graph; receiving a second data set comprising sensor data detected by the plurality of sensors coupled to the equipments in operation during a second period of time; constructing a second dependency graph based on the second data set by solving the first objective function constrained with the maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with the regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set and the second data set in constructing the second dependency graph; and determining an anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors based on comparing the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
11. The computer readable storage device of claim 10, further comprising: responsive to determining that an anomaly score associated with a sensor in the plurality of sensors meets a threshold value indicative of abnormal functioning, automatically performing a corrective action to correct equipment coupled to the sensor.
12. The computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the first object function is solved by a projected gradient algorithm.
13. The computer readable storage device of claim 12, wherein the projected gradient algorithm embeds an approximate Newton method, wherein feasibility with respect to sparsity constraint is handled via projection, and a symmetric positive-definiteness of iterates is ensured through a line-search procedure.
14. The computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a conditional expected Kullback-Liebler divergence between the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
15. The computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a stochastic nearest neighbors algorithm measuring dissimilarity between neighborhood of i-th variable representing a sensor between the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
16. The computer readable storage device of claim 10, wherein the determining of the anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors comprises implementing a sparsest subgraph approximation based on the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
17. A system, comprising: a hardware processor coupled with a communication interface; a memory device coupled to the hardware processor; the hardware processor operable to receive via the communication interface, a first data set comprising sensor data detected by a plurality of sensors coupled to equipments in operation during a first period of time; the hardware processor operable to construct a first dependency graph based on the first data set by solving a first objective function constrained with a maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with a regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty to control sparsity, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set in constructing the first dependency graph; the hardware processor operable to receive a second data set comprising sensor data detected by the plurality of sensors coupled to the equipments in operation during a second period of time; the hardware processor operable to construct a second dependency graph based on the second data set by solving the first objective function constrained with the maximum number of non-zeros and formulated with the regularization term comprising a quadratic penalty, wherein the quadratic penalty is determined as a function of the first data set and the second data set in constructing the second dependency graph; and the hardware processor operable to determine an anomaly score for each of the plurality of sensors based on comparing the first dependency graph and the second dependency graph.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the hardware processor is further operable to, responsive to determining that an anomaly score associated with a sensor in the plurality of sensors meets a threshold value indicative of abnormal functioning, automatically trigger a corrective action to correct an equipment coupled to the sensor.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the first object function is solved by a projected gradient algorithm.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the projected gradient algorithm embeds an approximate Newton method, wherein feasibility with respect to sparsity constraint is handled via projection, and a symmetric positive-definiteness of iterates is ensured through a line-search procedure.
</claims>
</document>
