<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/15,G06F21/60,G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOWERS, KEVIN
LI, ZHOU
ZASLAVSKY, ALEX
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947812
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA-DRIVEN ATTRIBUTE SELECTION FOR USER APPLICATION ENTITLEMENT ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are provided for selecting attributes to cluster users for a user application entitlement evaluation. An exemplary method comprises obtaining enterprise reference data indicating a plurality of attributes for a plurality of enterprise users; obtaining enterprise entitlement data indicating user application entitlements for the plurality of enterprise users; selecting at least one of the plurality of attributes as a cluster attribute using predefined information content rules applied on the enterprise entitlement data; determining a probability of a user application entitlement for the one or more user application entitlements based on a number of users for a plurality of values of the cluster attribute and a number of users for a plurality of pairs of the cluster attribute and a value of the one or more user application entitlements; and identifying anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data based on the probability of the user application entitlement for at least one user application entitlement and at least one predefined anomaly threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining enterprise reference data indicating a plurality of attributes for a plurality of enterprise users; obtaining enterprise entitlement data indicating one or more user application entitlements for the plurality of enterprise users; selecting, using at least one processing device, at least one of the plurality of attributes as a cluster attribute using one or more predefined information content rules applied on the enterprise entitlement data; determining, using the at least one processing device, a probability of a user application entitlement for the one or more user application entitlements based on a number of users for a plurality of values of the cluster attribute and a number of users for a plurality of pairs of the cluster attribute and a value of the one or more user application entitlements; and identifying, using the at least one processing device, one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data based on the probability of the user application entitlement for at least one user application entitlement and at least one predefined anomaly threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise an entropy test that removes a given attribute below a predefined entropy value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a unique values test that removes a given attribute one or more of below a predefined cardinality value and having a relative cardinality value above a predefined threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a distribution test that removes a given attribute having one or more of a percent of users in each element of the given attribute above a predefined value and having a number of users in each element of the given attribute below a predefined value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a cross correlation test that determines a cross correlation for a pair of attributes and removes a given attribute having a lower cardinality from the pair of attributes when the cross correlation for the pair of attributes is above a predefined correlation threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the probability for a given user application entitlement is the number of users for each pair of the cluster attribute and the given user application entitlement divided by the number of unique users for each value of the cluster attribute.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of updating one or more of the predefined information content rules and the at least one predefined anomaly threshold based on user feedback.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data comprise one or more of an abnormal user application entitlement that is improperly present for at least one user of a same group of enterprise users that is absent for other peers in the same group and a missing user application entitlement that is present for other peers in the same group and should be granted to another user of the same group.
9. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processing device, coupled to the memory, operative to implement the following steps: obtaining enterprise reference data indicating a plurality of attributes for a plurality of enterprise users; obtaining enterprise entitlement data indicating one or more user application entitlements for the plurality of enterprise users; selecting at least one of the plurality of attributes as a cluster attribute using one or more predefined information content rules applied on the enterprise entitlement data; determining a probability of a user application entitlement for the one or more user application entitlements based on a number of users for a plurality of values of the cluster attribute and a number of users for a plurality of pairs of the cluster attribute and a value of the one or more user application entitlements; and identifying one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data based on the probability of the user application entitlement for at least one user application entitlement and at least one predefined anomaly threshold.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise an entropy test that removes a given attribute below a predefined entropy value.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a unique values test that removes a given attribute one or more of below a predefined cardinality value and having a relative cardinality value above a predefined threshold.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a distribution test that removes a given attribute having one or more of a percent of users in each element of the given attribute above a predefined value and having a number of users in each element of the given attribute below a predefined value.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a cross correlation test that determines a cross correlation for a pair of attributes and removes a given attribute having a lower cardinality from the pair of attributes when the cross correlation for the pair of attributes is above a predefined correlation threshold.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data comprise one or more of an abnormal user application entitlement that is improperly present for at least one user of a same group of enterprise users that is absent for other peers in the same group and a missing user application entitlement that is present for other peers in the same group and should be granted to another user of the same group.
15. A computer program product, comprising a tangible machine-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by at least one processing device perform the following steps: obtaining enterprise reference data indicating a plurality of attributes for a plurality of enterprise users; obtaining enterprise entitlement data indicating one or more user application entitlements for the plurality of enterprise users; selecting at least one of the plurality of attributes as a cluster attribute using one or more predefined information content rules applied on the enterprise entitlement data; determining a probability of a user application entitlement for the one or more user application entitlements based on a number of users for a plurality of values of the cluster attribute and a number of users for a plurality of pairs of the cluster attribute and a value of the one or more user application entitlements; and identifying one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data based on the probability of the user application entitlement for at least one user application entitlement and at least one predefined anomaly threshold.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise an entropy test that removes a given attribute below a predefined entropy value.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a unique values test that removes a given attribute one or more of below a predefined cardinality value and having a relative cardinality value above a predefined threshold.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a distribution test that removes a given attribute having one or more of a percent of users in each element of the given attribute above a predefined value and having a number of users in each element of the given attribute below a predefined value.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more predefined information content rules comprise a cross correlation test that determines a cross correlation for a pair of attributes and removes a given attribute having a lower cardinality from the pair of attributes when the cross correlation for the pair of attributes is above a predefined correlation threshold.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more anomalies in the enterprise entitlement data comprise one or more of an abnormal user application entitlement that is improperly present for at least one user of a same group of enterprise users that is absent for other peers in the same group and a missing user application entitlement that is present for other peers in the same group and should be granted to another user of the same group.
</claims>
</document>
