<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L17/00,G10L17/18,H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTICON
</assignee>

<inventors>
PETERSEN, SVEND OSCAR
PEDERSEN, MICHAEL SYSKIND
LESIMPLE, CHRISTOPHE
GULD, Morten
KWASIBORSKI, Slawomir
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65812091
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEARING DEVICE OR SYSTEM COMPRISING A USER IDENTIFICATION UNIT
</title>

<abstract>
A hearing system comprises a hearing device, e.g. a hearing aid, configured to be worn by a particular user at or in an ear, or to be fully or partially implanted in the head at an ear of the user. The hearing device comprises at least one microphone for converting a sound in the environment of the hearing device to an electric input signal. The hearing system, e.g. the hearing device, comprises a processor comprising an own voice analyzer configured to characterize the voice of a person presently wearing the hearing device based at least partly on said electric input signal, and to provide characteristics of said person's voice, and an own voice acoustic channel analyzer for estimating characteristics of an acoustic channel from the mouth of the person presently wearing the hearing device to the at least one microphone based at least partly on said electric input signal, and to provide characteristics of said acoustic channel of said person. The hearing system further comprises a user identification unit configured to provide a user identification signal indicating whether or not, or with what probability, the person currently wearing the hearing device is said particular user in dependence of said characteristics of said person's voice and said characteristics of said acoustic channel of said person.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hearing system comprising a hearing device, e.g. a hearing aid, configured to be worn by a particular user at or in an ear, or to be fully or partially implanted in the head at an ear of the user, the hearing device comprising at least one microphone for converting a sound in the environment of the hearing device to an electric input signal, a processor comprising an own voice analyzer configured to characterize the voice of a person presently wearing the hearing device based at least partly on said electric input signal, and to provide characteristics of said person's voice, and an own voice acoustic channel analyzer for estimating characteristics of an acoustic channel from the mouth of the person presently wearing the hearing device to the at least one microphone based at least partly on said electric input signal, and to provide characteristics of said acoustic channel of said person, wherein the hearing system comprise a user identification unit configured to provide a user identification signal indicating whether or not, or with what probability, the person currently wearing the hearing device is said particular user in dependence of said characteristics of said person's voice and said characteristics of said acoustic channel of said person.
2. A hearing system according to claim I wherein said user identification unit is configured to determine whether or not or with what probability the voice of said person currently wearing the hearing device matches a voice of said particular user and to provide a voice identifier indicative thereof.
3. A hearing system according to claim 1 wherein said user identification unit is configured to determine whether or not or with what probability the acoustic channel of said person currently wearing the hearing device matches the acoustic channel of said particular user and to provide an acoustic channel identifier indicative thereof.
4. A hearing system according to claim 1 wherein said detection of the voice of the person presently wearing the hearing device is based on a known placement of the at least one microphone relative to the particular user's mouth.
5. A hearing system according to claim 1 wherein said detection of the voice of the person presently wearing the hearing device is based on or influenced by additional information.
6. A hearing system according to claim 1 wherein the own voice analyzer and/or the own voice acoustic channel analyzer comprises a neural network.
7. A hearing system according to claim 6 wherein the neural network has been trained on examples of the particular user's voice while the particular user wears the hearing device.
8. A hearing system according to claim 6 wherein the neural network comprises a Siamese network to learn features for each person's voice, such that a distance measure between voice features of the same person is small, while the distance between voice features of different persons is much higher.
9. A hearing system according to claim 1 comprising a feedback estimation unit for providing an estimate of a current feedback path from an output transducer of the hearing device to said at least one microphone, and wherein said further information comprises or is derived from said estimate of a current feedback path.
10. A hearing system according to claim 1 configured to be brought into an authorizing mode, when said user identification signal indicates a match with the particular user.
11. A hearing system according to claim 10 configured to stay in the authorizing mode until a) either the user identification signal does not indicate a match with the particular user's identity, or 2) until a request from the user is received by the hearing system, or 3) until a particular termination criterion is fulfilled, or a combination thereof.
12. A hearing system according to claim 11 wherein said particular termination criterion is related to an estimate of a current feedback path of the hearing device.
13. A hearing system according to claim 1 wherein the hearing device is constituted by or comprises a hearing aid, a headset, an earphone, an ear protection device or a combination thereof.
14. A hearing system according claim 10 configured to enable or disable functionality of the hearing device in dependence of being in said authorizing mode.
15. A hearing system according to claim 1 comprising at least two microphones for providing at least two electric input signals.
16. A hearing system according to claim 15 comprising a directional microphone system for providing at least one beamformer, e.g. an own voice beamformer, based predetermined or adaptively updated own voice filter weights, wherein an estimate of the user's own voice is provided in dependence of on said own voice filter weights and said at least two electric input signals.
17. A hearing system according to claim 14 comprising first and second hearing devices adapted for being located at or in first and second ears, respectively, of the user, each of the first and second hearing devices comprising at least one microphone.
18. Use of a hearing system as claimed in to claim 1 for biometric identification of a particular user.
19. Use according to claim 18 for unlocking or locking particular devices or services for said particular user, and for locking or unlocking particular devices or services for other users than said particular user.
20. A hearing device, e.g. a hearing aid, adapted to a particular user and configured to provide a user identification signal indicating whether or not a person currently wearing the hearing device is said particular user, wherein the hearing device and/or a device in communication with the hearing device, e.g. a smartphone, comprises a processor configured to provide said identification signal based on a combination of 1) identification of characteristics of the user's voice, and 2) identification of another parameter characteristic of the current user of the hearing device, wherein said another parameter characteristic of the current user of the hearing device comprises an acoustic transfer function, or impulse response, from the user's mouth to one or more microphones of the hearing device, and/or from a loudspeaker to one or more microphones of the hearing device.
</claims>
</document>
