<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G06F16/908,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAULKNER, JASON THOMAS
SEXAUER, ERIC RANDALL
CHHABRA, SHALENDRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70155348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT TASK SUGGESTIONS BASED ON AUTOMATED LEARNING AND CONTEXTUAL ANALYSIS OF USER ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
The techniques disclosed herein improve existing systems by automatically identifying tasks from a number of different types of user activity and providing suggestions for the tasks to one or more selected delivery mechanisms. A system compiles the tasks and pushes each task to a personalized task list of a user. The delivery of each task may be based on any suitable user activity, which may include communication between one or more users or a user's interaction with a particular file or a system. The system can identify timelines, performance parameters, and other related contextual data associated with the task. The system can identify a delivery schedule for the task to optimize the effectiveness of the delivery of the task. The system can also provide smart notifications. When a task conflicts with a person's calendar, the system can resolve scheduling conflicts based on priorities of a calendar event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a data processing system, the method comprising: monitoring input data defining user activity of a plurality of users for identifying keywords from the user activity associated with at least one of a document, a message, a channel thread, an audio recording, or a communication stream; analyzing the keywords that meet a threshold requirement to identify a task and at least one user identity associated with the task; generating a task description based on the keywords; analyzing user activity data associated with the at least one user identity associated with the task, wherein the user activity data indicates a frequency of use of a number of delivery applications and a number of delivery files; communicating the task description to at least one delivery software application of the number of delivery software applications having a threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display the task description in a user interface; and embedding the task description in at least one delivery file of the number of delivery files having the threshold level of use.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the keywords to identify a task further comprises analyzing the keywords to identify a task timeline associated with the task, wherein the method further comprises: communicating the task timeline to the at least one delivery software application having the threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display the task timeline in the user interface; and embedding the task timeline in the at least one delivery file having the threshold level of use.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the at least one of the document, the message, the channel thread, the audio recording, or the communication stream to identify a file associated with the task, wherein the method further comprises: communicating the file or an identifier for the file to the at least one delivery software application having the threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display at least a portion of the file or the identifier for the file in the user interface; and embedding at least a portion of the file or the identifier for the file in the at least one delivery file having the threshold level of use.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining access permissions associated with the file based on the at least one user identity; and assigning the access permissions to the at least a portion of the file embedded in the delivery file.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining access permissions associated with the file based on the at least one user identity; and assigning the access permissions to the file communicated to the at least one delivery software application.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the user activity data associated with the at least one user identity associated with the task, wherein the user activity data indicates a time of use of the at least one delivery software application, wherein communicating the file or the identifier for the file to the at least one delivery software application is based on time of use of the at least one delivery software application.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the user activity learning data defining user activity associated with the at least one user identity associated with the task, wherein the user activity data indicates a time of use of the at least one delivery file, wherein embedding the task description in the at least one delivery file is based on the time of use of the at least one delivery file.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the delivery software applications do not meet the threshold level of use; and in response to determining that the delivery software applications do not meet the threshold level of use, causing the task description to be displayed in an operating system notification, wherein the operating system notification is displayed according to a delivery schedule based on the user activity data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of delivery software applications includes at least one of a text application, a word processing application, a spreadsheet application, a presentation editing application, a channel communication application, a video and audio communication application, or a calendaring application.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing the task description to identify required credentials associated with the task; generating a query comprising a description of the required credentials associated with the task; communicating the query to at least one external resource for causing the external resource to identify one or more user identities having a threshold level of credentials with respect to the required credentials associated with the task; and receiving resource data in response to the query, the resource data identifying the one or more user identities having the threshold level of credentials with respect to the required credentials associated with the task.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating access permissions for at least one computing device for allowing the one or more user identities having the threshold level of credentials to access task data defining the task description, a task timeline, or at least one file associated with the task.
12. A method, comprising: monitoring input data defining user activity of a plurality of users for identifying keywords from at least one of a document, a message, a channel thread, an audio recording, or a communication stream; analyzing the keywords to identify a task, a timeline for the task, and at least one user identity associated with the task; analyzing calendar data defining a schedule for the at least one user identity to determine that a conflict exists between an appointment on the schedule and the timeline for the task; in response to determining that the conflict exists between the appointment and the timeline for the task, generating a notification describing the conflict; communicating a task description and the timeline for the task to at least one computing device, the communication causing the display of the task description, the timeline for the task, and the notification describing the conflict.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the appointment has an associated priority, wherein the method further comprises: determining that the priority of the appointment meets a threshold level; in response to determining that the priority of the appointment meets the threshold level, communicating a notification to user identities associated with other tasks that have a dependency on the task.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the appointment has an associated priority, wherein the method further comprises: determining that the priority of the appointment does not meet a threshold level; in response to determining that the priority of the appointment does not meet the threshold level, communicating a notification to the at least one user identity associated with the task.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the notification to the at least one user identity causes a display of a graphical element configured to resolve the conflict, wherein a user response to the graphical element causes a system to perform at least one of removing the appointment or generating a recommendation for a new time for the appointment that does not conflict with the task timeline.
16. A system comprising: means for monitoring input data defining user activity of a plurality of users for identifying keywords from the user activity associated with at least one of a document, a message, a channel thread, an audio recording, or a communication stream; means for analyzing the keywords to identify a task and at least one user identity associated with the task; means for generating a task description based on the keywords; means for analyzing user activity learning data associated with the at least one user identity associated with the task, wherein the user activity data indicates a frequency of use of a number of delivery applications and a number of delivery files; means for communicating the task description to at least one delivery software application of the number of delivery software applications having a threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display the task description in a user interface; and means for embedding the task description in at least one delivery file of the number of delivery files having the threshold level of use.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein analyzing the keywords to identify a task further comprises analyzing the keywords to identify a task timeline associated with the task, wherein the system further comprises: means for communicating the task timeline to the at least one delivery software application having the threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display the task timeline in the user interface; and means for embedding the task timeline in the at least one delivery file having the threshold level of use.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein analyzing the at least one of the document, the message, the channel thread, the audio recording, or the communication stream to identify a file associated with the task, wherein the system further comprises: means for communicating the file or an identifier for the file to the at least one delivery software application having the threshold level of use, wherein the communication causes the at least one delivery software application to display at least a portion of the file or the identifier for the file in the user interface; and means for embedding at least a portion of the file or the identifier for the file in the at least one delivery file having the threshold level of use.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the system further comprises: means for determining access permissions associated with the file based on the at least one user identity; and means for assigning the access permissions to the at least a portion of the file embedded in the delivery file.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the system further comprises means for analyzing user activity data associated with the at least one user identity associated with the task, wherein the user activity data indicates a time of use of the at least one delivery software application, wherein communicating the file or the identifier for the file to the at least one delivery software application is based on time of use of the at least one delivery software application.
</claims>
</document>
