<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/435,G06F16/438,G06N20/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VIVI INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAUCHBERGER, LIOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69405942
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL TIME SYNCHRONIZATION OF CLIENT DEVICE ACTIONS WITH PRESENTED CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
A method of calculating feedback parameters for presentation images presented to spectators, comprising obtaining a presentation stream comprising a sequence of a plurality of presentation images, analyzing the presentation stream to identify a plurality of presentation periods of a presentation session, during each presentation period an associated one of the plurality of presentation images is presented to one or more spectators, receiving a plurality of feedback messages transmitted by client device(s) used by the spectator(s) to provide feedback to one or more of the presentation images, correlating each feedback message with one of the presentation images according to a presentation period during which the feedback message is received and transmitting the correlated feedback messages to feedback analysis system(s) adapted to calculate one or more feedback parameters for one or more presentation images based on the feedback extracted from the feedback messages correlated with one or more of the presentation images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of calculating feedback parameters for presentation images presented to spectators, comprising: obtaining a presentation stream comprising a sequence of a plurality of presentation images; analyzing the presentation stream to identify a plurality of presentation periods of a presentation session, during each of the plurality of presentation periods an associated one of the plurality of presentation images is presented to at least one spectator; receiving, via a network, a plurality of feedback messages transmitted by at least one client device used by the at least one spectator to provide a feedback to at least one of the plurality of presentation images; correlating each of the plurality of feedback messages with one of the plurality of presentation images according to a presentation period of the plurality of presentation periods during which each feedback message is received; and transmitting the plurality of correlated feedback messages to at least one feedback analysis system adapted to calculate at least one feedback parameter for the at least one presentation image based on the feedback extracted from at least one of the plurality of feedback messages correlated with the at least one presentation image.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feedback comprising at least one of: a content feedback to a content of the at least one presentation image and an emotional feedback indicative of a state of mind of the at least one spectator.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising at least one of the plurality of feedback messages is transmitted by the at least one client device in response to at least one feedback request transmitted to the at least one client device during at least one of the plurality of presentation periods.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the at least one feedback request is transmitted according to at least one feedback request indication embedded within the presentation stream.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the at least one feedback request is transmitted in response to an instruction received from a client device used by a presenter conducting the presentation session.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the at least one feedback request is automatically generated in case an involvement score calculated for the at least one spectator is lower than a predefined threshold, the involvement score calculated based on the at least one feedback parameter is indicative of an involvement level of the at least one spectator.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting in real-time at least one of the plurality of presentation periods according to a reception rate of at least some of the plurality of feedback messages.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feedback parameter comprises at least one member of a group consisting of: an involvement score indicative of an involvement level of the at least one spectator expressed by a count of feedback messages initiated by the at least one spectator, a content score indicative of understanding of the at least one spectator of a content presented by the at least one presentation image, and an emotional score indicative of a state of mind of the at least one spectator during presentation of the at least one presentation image.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting in real-time at least one of the plurality of presentation periods according to the at least one feedback parameter.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate at least one alert to a client device used by a presenter of the presentation session, the at least one alert is generated based on the at least one feedback parameter according to at least one predefined feedback activity rule.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 10, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate a plurality of alerts prioritized according to priorities defined based on the at least one of: the at least one feedback parameter identified for the at least one spectator during at least one previous presentation session attended by the at least one spectator, and at least one feedback classification rule.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate a spectator feedback report for the at least one spectator based on the at least one feedback parameter calculated for a plurality of feedback events in which the at least one spectator provided feedback during the presentation session.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to adjust the spectator feedback report according to the at least one feedback parameter calculated for the at least one spectator during a plurality of previous presentation sessions attended by the at least one spectator.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate a presenter feedback report for a presenter conducting the presentation session based on the at least one feedback parameter calculated for a plurality of feedback events in which the at least one spectator provided feedback during the presentation session.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 14, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to adjust the presenter feedback report according to the at least one feedback parameter calculated for a plurality of previous presentation sessions conducted by the presenter.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate at least one feedback analytics for at least one aggregated feedback parameter created by aggregating the at least one parameter calculated for a plurality of spectators attending the presentation session.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 16, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to apply at least one machine learning algorithm to the at least one feedback analytics generated for the presentation stream during a plurality of presentation sessions to identify at least one feedback pattern for at least one of the presentation images.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 17, wherein the at least one feedback analysis system is further adapted to generate at least one recommendation for adjusting at least one presentation element of the at least one presentation image based on analysis of the at least one feedback pattern.
19. A system for calculating feedback parameters for presentation images presented to spectators, comprising: a program store storing a code; at least one processor coupled to the program store is adapted to execute the stored code, the code comprising: code instructions to obtain a presentation comprising a sequence of a plurality of presentation images; code instructions to analyze the presentation stream to identify a plurality of presentation periods of a presentation session, during each of the plurality of presentation periods an associated one of the plurality of presentation images is presented to at least one spectator; code instructions to receive, via a network, a plurality of feedback messages transmitted by at least one client device used by the at least one spectator to provide a feedback to at least one of the plurality of presentation images; code instructions to correlate each of the plurality of feedback messages with one of the plurality of presentation images according to a presentation period of the plurality of presentation periods during which each feedback message is received; and code instructions to transmit the plurality of correlated feedback messages to at least one feedback analysis system adapted to calculate at least one feedback parameter for the at least one presentation image based on the feedback extracted from at least one of the plurality of feedback messages correlated with the at least one presentation image.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising the at least one processor is integrated in a receiver integrating the at least one feedback analysis system.
</claims>
</document>
