<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01D41/06,A01D41/127,A01D45/30,A01D61/02,A01F12/46,G06T7/00,H04N5/225,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHN DEERE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, JONATHAN
CORBAN, STEPHEN R.
HERMAN, HERMAN
MILLER, SCOTT
PEZZEMENTI, ZACHARY
TABOR, TRENTON
TODD, WILLIAM D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69774823
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GRAIN QUALITY CONTROL SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A grain tailings elevator for a combine harvester includes a an elevator housing having an interior containing a conveyor arrangement configured to transport grain tailings through the elevator housing to a discharge outlet. The elevator housing has a side wall with a window to the interior of the elevator housing. A camera having a camera housing containing an image sensor is mounted to the side wall of the elevator housing over the window with the image sensor in registration with the window. The image sensor is trained on the conveyor arrangement and configured to image the grain tailings transported by the conveyor arrangement through the elevator housing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A grain tailings elevator for a combine harvester comprising: an elevator housing having an interior containing a conveyor arrangement configured to transport grain tailings through the elevator housing to a discharge outlet, the elevator housing having a side wall with a window to the interior of the elevator housing; and a camera having a camera housing containing an image sensor, the camera housing being mounted to the side wall of the elevator housing over the window with the image sensor in registration with the window; wherein the image sensor is trained on the conveyor arrangement and configured to image the grain tailings transported by the conveyor arrangement through the elevator housing.
2. The tailings elevator of example 1, wherein the camera is mounted to the side wall of the elevator housing within a distance from a bottom end of the elevator housing approximately one quarter of a length of the elevator housing.
3. The tailings elevator of example 1, wherein a width of the window is equal to a width of the side wall.
4. The tailings elevator of example 1, wherein the conveyor arrangement includes a plurality of paddles coupled to a flexible member and spaced apart along a length of the elevator housing; and wherein each of the plurality of paddles has a front edge and a rear edge, the front edge being closer to the side wall of the elevator housing than the rear edge.
5. The tailings elevator of example 4, wherein the camera is trained on the conveyor arrangement so that the image sensor images the grain tailings carried by a top portion of the paddle between the front edge and the rear edge of each of the plurality of paddles as they move the grain tailings through the elevator housing to the discharge outlet.
6. The tailings elevator of example 5, wherein the camera is mounted at an angle with respect to the side wall of the elevator housing such that full lengths of the front and rear edges of each of the plurality of paddles falls within a field of view of the image sensor as the conveyor arrangement moves through the plurality of paddles through the elevator housing.
7. The tailings elevator of example 4, wherein the camera is trained on the conveyor arrangement so that the image sensor images the grain tailings in suspension within the elevator housing as the plurality of paddles move the grain tailings through the elevator housing to the discharge outlet.
8. The tailings elevator of example 4, further including a sensor configured to sense the plurality of the paddles as they pass through the elevator housing; wherein the sensor is operatively coupled to the camera to activate the image sensor after sensing one of the plurality of paddles.
9. The tailings elevator of example 8, wherein the sensor is located adjacent to or within the camera housing; and wherein the sensor senses each of the plurality of paddles through the window in the side wall of the elevator housing.
10. An agriculture combine comprising: a clean grain elevator; and a grain tailings elevator including: an elevator housing having an interior containing a conveyor arrangement configured to transport partially threshed grain tailings through the elevator housing to a discharge outlet, the elevator housing having a side wall with a window to the interior of the elevator housing; and a camera having a camera housing containing an image sensor, the camera housing being mounted to the elevator housing over the window in the side wall with the image sensor in registration with the window; wherein the image sensor is trained on the conveyor arrangement and configured to image the grain tailings transported by the conveyor arrangement through the elevator housing.
11. The agriculture combine of example 10, wherein the camera is mounted to the elevator housing within a distance from a bottom end of the elevator housing approximately one third of a length of the elevator housing.
12. The agriculture combine of example 10, wherein a width of the window is equal to a width of the side wall.
13. The agriculture combine of example 10, wherein the conveyor arrangement includes a plurality of paddles coupled to a flexible member and spaced apart along a length of the elevator housing; and wherein each of the plurality of paddles has a front edge and a rear edge, the front edge being closer to the side wall of the elevator housing than the rear edge.
14. The agriculture combine of example 13, wherein the camera is trained on the conveyor arrangement so that the image sensor images the grain tailings carried by a top portion of the paddle between the front edge and the rear edge of each of the plurality of paddles as they move the grain tailings through the elevator housing to the discharge outlet.
15. The agriculture combine of example 14, wherein the camera is mounted at an angle with respect to the side wall of the elevator housing such that full lengths of the front and rear edges of each of the plurality of paddles falls within a field of view of the image sensor as the conveyor arrangement moves through the plurality of paddles through the elevator housing.
16. The agriculture combine of example 13, wherein the camera is trained on the conveyor arrangement so that the image sensor images the grain tailings in suspension within the elevator housing as the plurality of paddles move the grain tailings through the elevator housing to the discharge outlet.
17. The agriculture combine of example 13, further including a control system including at least one processor and memory architecture for executing imaging commands; wherein the control system is operatively connected to the camera to control the image sensor.
18. The agriculture combine of example 17, further including a sensor operatively connected to the control system to provide sensor input to the at least one processor and configured to sense the plurality of the paddles as they pass through the elevator housing; wherein the control system activates the image sensor after sensing one of the plurality of paddles by the sensor.
19. The agriculture combine of example 18, wherein the sensor is located adjacent to or within the camera housing; and wherein the sensor senses each of the plurality of paddles through the window in the side wall of the elevator housing.
20. The agriculture combine of example 17, wherein the control system is configured to store images captured by the image sensor into the memory and execute image processing algorithms to assess the content and quality of the grain tailings.
</claims>
</document>
