<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Traackr, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Gravé, Mikaël
Papadimitriou, Eva
Chabot, Nicolas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MEASURING BRAND VITALITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and computer-implemented methods provided herein determine a metric for brand vitality (VIT) for social media content. VIT is a unique score for each post of social media content that acts as a proxy for impact on consumers. By avoiding the need to conduct costly consumer research for each brand or marketing campaign on social media, the determination of VIT provides a cost-effective and automated yet still meaningful assessment of the reach and exposure of the brand or marketing campaign. Importantly, the determination of VIT is scalable in a way that polling and consumer research is not.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing-device implemented method of determining a metric for brand vitality (VIT) for social media content executed on one or more computing devices equipped with one or more processors, comprising: executing a VIT determination module on the one or more computing devices, the executing: identifying one or more visibility attributes from retrieved data associated with a post of social media content on a channel for delivering social media, the one or more visibility attributes measuring visibility of the post to users of the channel, the retrieved data retrieved from one or more of the channel for delivering social media, a third party service providing data regarding the channel for delivering social media and one or more databases of stored attribute information, identifying one or more engagement attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more engagement attributes measuring engagement with the post by users of the channel, identifying one or more trust attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more trust attributes measuring brand association of the post, and generating a VIT score for the post of social media content using the one or more visibility attributes, the one or more engagement attributes, and the one or more trust attributes; and displaying or exporting the generated VIT score.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more audience fit attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more audience fit attributes measuring a quality of an audience of the post on the social media channel; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more audience fit attributes.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more author quality attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more author quality attributes measuring a quality of an author of the post; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more author quality attributes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content includes summing the one or more visibility attributes and the one or more engagement attributes and multiplying the result by the one or more trust attributes.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a first total VIT score for a marketing campaign based on the VIT score generated for the post and a plurality of other VIT scores respectively generated for a plurality of other posts of social media content, the post and the plurality of other posts associated with the marketing campaign.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of other posts include at least one post on a second social media channel.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the post is associated with a first brand and further comprising: generating a second total VIT score for a second brand based on a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the second brand; and generating a brand ranking based on the first total VIT score and the second total VIT score.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a VIT score for each of a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the same author; and generating an average VIT score for the author based on the VIT score for the post and the VIT scores generated for the plurality of other posts.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more visibility attributes are based at least in part on a number of views of the post on the channel.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the number of views is modified by a repeat factor indicative of the number of times a brand is mentioned in posts by the same author over a pre-determined period of time.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more engagement attributes are indicative of one or more of likes, comments, or shares of the post by users of the channel.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the one or more engagement attributes is adjusted by a weighting factor based on pre-determined criteria.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more trust attributes are indicative of one or more of a number of brands included in the post of social media content, a number of hashtags associated with the post of social media content, a number of photographs or images associated with the post of social media content, or a number of brand logos associated with photographs or images in the post of social media content.
14. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more audience fit attributes are indicative of demographics and psychographics of an audience of the author.
15. A non-transitory medium holding computer-executable instructions for determining a metric for brand vitality (VIT) for social media content, the instructions when executed on one or more computing devices equipped with one or more processors causing at least one computing device to: execute a VIT determination module, the executing: identify one or more visibility attributes from retrieved data associated with a post of social media content on a channel for delivering social media, the one or more visibility attributes measuring visibility of the post to users of the channel, the retrieved data retrieved from one or more of the channel for delivering social media, a third party service providing data regarding the channel for delivering social media and one or more databases of stored attribute information, identify one or more engagement attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more engagement attributes measuring engagement with the post by users of the channel, identify one or more trust attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more trust attributes measuring a brand association of the post, and generate a VIT score for the post of social media content using the one or more visibility attributes, the one or more engagement attributes, and the one or more trust attributes; and display or export the generated VIT score.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one computing device to: identify one or more audience fit attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more audience fit attributes measuring a quality of an audience of the post on the social media channel; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more audience fit attributes.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one computing device to: identify one or more author quality attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more author quality attributes measuring a quality of an author of the post; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more author quality attributes.
18. The medium of claim 15, wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content includes summing the one or more visibility attributes and the one or more engagement attributes and multiplying the result by the one or more trust attributes.
19. The medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one computing device to: generate a first total VIT score for a marketing campaign based on the VIT score generated for the post and a plurality of other VIT scores respectively generated for a plurality of other posts of social media content, the post and the plurality of other posts associated with the marketing campaign.
20. The medium of claim 19, wherein the plurality of other posts include at least one post on a second social media channel.
21. The medium of claim 19, wherein the post is associated with a first brand, and wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one computing device to: generate a second total VIT score for a different brand based on a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the different brand; and generate a brand ranking based on the first total VIT score and the second total VIT score.
22. The medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the at least one computing device to: generate a VIT score for each of a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the same author; and generate an average VIT score for the author based on the VIT score for the post and the VIT scores generated for the plurality of other posts.
23. The medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more visibility attributes are based at least in part on a number of views of the post on the channel.
24. The medium of claim 23, wherein the number of views is modified by a repeat factor indicative of the number of times a brand is mentioned in posts by the same author over a pre-determined period of time.
25. The medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more engagement attributes are indicative of one or more of likes, comments, or shares of the post by users of the channel.
26. The medium of claim 25, wherein at least one of the one or more engagement attributes is adjusted by a weighting factor based on pre-determined criteria.
27. The medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more trust attributes are indicative of one or more of a number of brands included in the post of social media content, a number of hashtags associated with the post of social media content, a number of photographs or images associated with the post of social media content, or a number of brand logos associated with photographs or images in the post of social media content.
28. The medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more audience fit attributes are indicative of demographics and psychographics of an audience of the author.
29. A system for determining a metric for brand vitality (VIT) for social media content, comprising: a computing device including a processor and a memory operatively coupled to the processor, the memory having instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: identify one or more visibility attributes from retrieved data associated with a post of social media content on a channel for delivering social media, the one or more visibility attributes measuring visibility of the post to users of the channel, the retrieved data retrieved from one or more of the channel for delivering social media, a third party service providing data regarding the channel for delivering social media and one or more databases of stored attribute information; identify one or more engagement attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more engagement attributes measuring engagement with the post by users of the channel; identify one or more trust attributes associated from the retrieved data with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more trust attributes measuring a brand association of the post; and generate a VIT score for the post of social media content using the one or more visibility attributes, the one or more engagement attributes, and the one or more trust attributes.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the memory has further instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: identify one or more audience fit attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more audience fit attributes measuring a quality of an audience of the post on the social media channel; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more audience fit attributes.
31. The system of claim 29, wherein the memory has further instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: identifying one or more author quality attributes from the retrieved data associated with the post of social media content on the channel, the one or more author quality attributes measuring a quality of an author of the post; and wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content further includes using the one or more author quality attributes.
32. The system of claim 29, wherein generating the VIT score for the post of social media content includes summing the one or more visibility attributes and the one or more engagement attributes and multiplying the result by the one or more trust attributes.
33. The system of claim 29, wherein the memory has further instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: generate a first total VIT score for a marketing campaign based on the VIT score generated for the post and a plurality of other VIT scores respectively generated for a plurality of other posts of social media content, the post and the plurality of other posts associated with the marketing campaign.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the plurality of other posts include at least one post on a second social media channel.
35. The system of claim 33, wherein the post is associated with a first brand and wherein the memory has further instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: generate a second total VIT score for a different brand based on a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the different brand; and generate a brand ranking based on the first total VIT score and the second total VIT score.
36. The system of claim 29, wherein the memory has further instructions stored therein that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to: generating a VIT score for each of a plurality of other posts of social media content associated with the same author; and generating an average VIT score for the author based on the VIT score for the post and the VIT scores generated for the plurality of other posts.
37. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more visibility attributes are based at least in part on a number of views of the post on the channel.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the number of views is modified by a repeat factor indicative of the number of times a brand is mentioned in posts by the same author over a pre-determined period of time.
39. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more engagement attributes are indicative of one or more of likes, comments, or shares of the post by users of the channel.
40. The system of claim 39, wherein at least one of the one or more engagement attributes is adjusted by a weighting factor based on pre-determined criteria.
41. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more trust attributes are indicative of one or more of a number of brands included in the post of social media content, a number of hashtags associated with the post of social media content, a number of photographs or images associated with the post of social media content, or a number of brand logos associated with photographs or images in the post of social media content.
42. The system of claim 29, wherein the one or more audience fit attributes are indicative of demographics and psychographics of an audience of the author.
</claims>
</document>
