<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/18,B60W40/105,G06K9/00,G06N3/04,H04W4/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HA, DAE GEUN
JEON, SOO JUNG
YU, JUN YOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67950502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR CHANGING LANE OF AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment of the present disclosure, a lane changing apparatus of an autonomous vehicle configured to change a driving lane in consideration of a congested situation includes a controller configured to determine whether an expected driving lane is congested based on driving information, and a communicator configured to receive the driving information. At least one among an autonomous driving vehicle, a user terminal, and a server according to embodiments of the present disclosure may be associated or integrated with an artificial intelligence module, a drone (unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV)), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, and a 5G service related device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A lane changing apparatus of an autonomous vehicle configured to change a driving lane in consideration of a congested situation, the lane changing apparatus comprising: a controller configured to: determine whether an expected driving lane is congested based on driving information, search for a first space and a second space, which are vehicle enterable spaces in the expected driving lane, and determine a space to be entered based on a comparison result between a characteristic of the first space and a characteristic of the second space based on determination that the expected driving lane is congested, and control the autonomous vehicle to change lanes along a lane changing route leading to the space to be entered; and a communicator configured to receive the driving information, and wherein the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space comprises a result of comparing a size of the first space and a size of the second space.
2. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the driving information comprises a driving lane speed which is a chassis speed of the autonomous vehicle and an expected driving lane speed which is a chassis speed of a vehicle moving along the expected driving lane, and when the driving lane speed exceeds the expected driving lane speed, the controller determines that the expected driving lane is congested.
3. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the driving information comprises lane marker information, and when the number of solid lines of the lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane decreases based on the lane marker information, the controller determines that the expected driving lane is congested.
4. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the driving information comprises surrounding image information, and the controller detects surrounding vehicles from the surrounding image, extracts a time and space feature vector from an image frame including the detected surrounding vehicles, determines a number of vehicles which show a cutting-in tendency through a deep learning artificial neural network using the extracted time and space feature vector, and when the number of determined vehicles exceeds a predetermined threshold number, determines that the expected driving lane is congested.
5. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space further comprises a result of comparing an increase rate of the size of the first space and an increase rate of the size of the second space.
6. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a communicator configured to communicate with a vehicle which is driving in the expected driving lane, wherein when the controller determines that the expected driving lane is congested, the controller generates a yield request signal for changing lanes, and transmits the yield request signal to the vehicle which is driving in the expected driving lane through the communicator.
7. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller periodically updates the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space, and changes the space to be entered based on the updated comparison result, while not changing the space to be entered when a wheel of the autonomous vehicle has crossed a lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane.
8. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein when the controller determines that a vehicle which is driving behind the first space is a non-yielding vehicle which is approaching the lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane, the controller reduces the size of the first space in accordance with a predetermined ratio before comparing the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space.
9. The lane changing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the communicator receives the driving information based on a downlink grant of a 5G network connected to drive the autonomous vehicle in an autonomous driving mode.
10. A lane changing method of an autonomous vehicle for changing a driving lane in consideration of a congested situation, the lane changing method comprising: a first step of determining whether an expected driving lane is congested based on driving information; a second step of searching for a first space and a second space, which are vehicle enterable spaces in the expected driving lane, and determining a space to be entered based on a comparison result between a characteristic of the first space and a characteristic of the second space when it is determined that the expected driving lane is congested; and a third step of controlling the autonomous vehicle to change a lane along a lane changing route leading to the space to be entered, wherein the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space comprises a result of comparing a size of the first space and a size of the second space.
11. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein the driving information comprises a driving lane speed which is a chassis speed of the autonomous vehicle and an expected driving lane speed which is a chassis speed of a vehicle moving along the expected driving lane, and the first step comprises determining that the expected driving lane is congested when the driving lane speed exceeds the expected driving lane speed.
12. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein: the driving information comprises lane marker information; and the first step comprises determining that the expected driving lane is congested when the number of solid lines of the lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane decreases based on the lane marker information.
13. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein: the driving information comprises surrounding image information; and the first step comprises detecting the surrounding vehicles from the surrounding image, extracting a time and space feature vector from an image frame including the detected surrounding vehicle, determining a number of vehicles which show a cutting-in tendency through a deep learning artificial neural network using the extracted time and space feature vector, and determining that the expected driving lane is congested when the number of determined vehicles exceeds a predetermined threshold number.
14. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space further comprises a result of comparing an increase rate of the size of the first space and an increase rate of the size of the second space.
15. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein the second step comprises generating a yield request signal for changing lanes, and transmitting the yield request signal to a vehicle which is driving in the expected driving lane when it is determined that the expected driving lane is congested in the first step.
16. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein the second step comprises periodically updating the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space, and changing the space to be entered based on the updated comparison result, while not changing the space to be entered when a wheel of the autonomous vehicle has crossed the lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane.
17. The lane changing method according to claim 10, wherein the second step comprises reducing the size of the first space in accordance with a predetermined ratio before comparing the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space, when it is determined that a vehicle which is driving behind the first space is a non-yielding vehicle which is approaching the lane marker between the driving lane on which the autonomous vehicle is driving and the expected driving lane.
18. A computer-readable recording medium on which a lane changing program of an autonomous vehicle configured to change a driving lane in consideration of a congested situation is recorded, the computer-readable recording medium comprising: a first means configured to determine whether an expected driving lane is congested based on driving information; a second means configured to search for a first space and a second space, which are vehicle enterable spaces, in the expected driving lane, and determine a space to be entered based on a comparison result between a characteristic of the first space and a characteristic of the second space when it is determined that the expected driving lane is congested; and a third means configured to control the autonomous vehicle to change lanes along a lane changing route leading to the space to be entered, wherein the comparison result between the characteristic of the first space and the characteristic of the second space comprises a result of comparing a size of the first space and a size of the second space.
</claims>
</document>
