<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/234,H04N21/439,H04N21/4415,H04N21/45,H04N21/454,H04N21/466,H04N21/6587
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLLADAY, CHRISTOPHER E.
BAUGHMAN, AARON, K.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
AMSTERDAM, JEFF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMICALLY PROVIDING CUSTOMIZED VERSIONS OF VIDEO CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for dynamically providing customized versions of video content are disclosed. In embodiments, a method comprises: analyzing a video to determine content and context of portions of the video; assigning one or more content editing categories to the portions of the video based on the analyzing; determining an unwanted scene of the video based on the one or more content editing categories and user profile data of a viewer; determining a style component of the unwanted scene based on context of the unwanted scene and the user profile data; generating custom content to replace the unwanted scene of the video based on an acceptable portion of content corresponding to the unwanted scene and the style component; editing the video to replace the unwanted scene of the video with the custom content to produce an edited video including the custom content; and providing the edited video to the viewer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: analyzing, by a computing device, a video to determine content of portions of the video and context of the portions of the video; assigning, by the computing device, one or more content editing categories to the portions of the video based on the analyzing; determining, by the computing device, an unwanted scene of the video based on the one or more content editing categories and user profile data of a viewer; determining, by the computing device, a style component of the unwanted scene based on context of the unwanted scene and the user profile data; generating, by the computing device, custom content to replace the unwanted scene of the video based on an acceptable portion of content corresponding to the unwanted scene and the style component; editing, by the computing device, the video to replace the unwanted scene of the video with the custom content to produce an edited video including the custom content; and providing, by the computing device, the edited video to the viewer.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the computing device, user profile data from a plurality of users, including the user profile data of the viewer, and saving the user profile data in a user profile database.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the video comprises analyzing audio data of the video and image data of the video for the content of the video and the context of the video.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the analyzing is performed utilizing at least one of the tools selected from the group consisting of: speech to text tools, natural language processing tools, and visual recognition tools.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the computing device, real-time user feedback data from a viewer watching the video, wherein the real-time user feedback data indicates reactions of the viewer to the video, and wherein the determining the objectionable portion of the video comprises utilizing the real-time user feedback data to determine the objectionable portion.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the real-time user feedback data comprises biometric data of the viewer.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computing device, an adjustment to a user setting from the viewer; rewinding, by the computing device, the video; and presenting, by the computing device, the video in an unedited form to the viewer based on the adjustment to the user setting.
8. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: feed quantitative user feedback data of a viewer of a video to a convolutional neural network of the computing device to produce a user feedback vector; feed qualitative user feedback data of the viewer to an encoder to produce word encodings; feed the word encodings and the user feedback vector into a series of long-short term memory networks to produce a user experience vector; feed the user experience vector to a second convolutional neural network; utilizing an output from the second convolutional neural network, determine an objectionable portion of the video with respect to the viewer; determine a style component of the objectionable portion of the video; generate custom content to replace the objectionable portion of the video based on an acceptable portion of content corresponding to the objectionable portion of the video and the style component; and edit the video to replace the objectionable portion of the video with the custom content to produce an edited video including the custom content.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions to cause the computing device to: analyze the video to determine content of portions of the video and context of the portions of the video; and assign one or more content editing categories to the portions of the video based on the analyzing.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the analyzing the video comprises analyzing audio data of the video and image data of the video for the content and the context.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the analyzing the video is performed utilizing at least one of the tools selected from the group consisting of: speech to text tools, natural language processing tools, and visual recognition tools.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions to cause the computing device to: receive user profile data from a plurality of users, including the viewer, and save the user profile data in a user profile database; and utilize the user profile data in the determining the objectionable portion of the video with respect to the viewer.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions to cause the computing device to: provide the edited video to the viewer; and receive real-time user feedback from the viewer, wherein the real-time user feedback indicates reactions of the viewer to the edited video, and wherein the determining the objectionable portion of the video comprises utilizing the real-time user feedback to determine the objectionable portion.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the real-time user feedback comprises biometric data of the viewer.
15. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions to cause the computing device to: provide the edited video to the viewer; receive an adjustment to a user setting from the viewer; rewind the video; and present the video to the viewer without the custom content based on the adjustment to the user setting.
16. A system comprising: a processor, a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage medium associated with a computing device; program instructions to provide a video to a viewer; program instructions to determine an unwanted portion of the video, as the video is being provided to the viewer, based on one or more content editing categories assigned to portions of the video and user data of the viewer; program instructions to determine a style component of the unwanted portion of the video based on context of the unwanted portion of the video and the user data; program instructions to generate custom content to replace the unwanted portion of the video based on an acceptable portion of content corresponding to the unwanted portion of the video and the style component; and program instructions to provide the custom content to the viewer in real-time, wherein the program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor via the computer readable memory.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising: program instructions to analyze the video to determine content of portions of the video and context of the portions of the video; and program instructions to assign the one or more content editing categories to the portions of the video based on the analyzing.
18. The system of claim 16, further comprising: program instructions to receive user feedback data from a plurality of users; and program instructions to update the one or more content editing categories based on the user feedback data from the plurality of users.
19. The system of claim 16, further comprising: program instructions to receive real-time user feedback data from the viewer watching the video, wherein the real-time user feedback data indicates reactions of the viewer to the video; and program instructions to feed the real-time user feedback data through an artificial neural network; wherein the determining the unwanted portion of the video is further based on an output of the artificial neural network.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising program instructions to train the artificial neural network over time utilizing the real-time user feedback data.
</claims>
</document>
