<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B23K9/04,B23K9/095,B23K9/12,B23K9/32,B33Y10/00,B33Y40/20,B33Y50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Stinger Advanced Manufacturing Corporation
</assignee>

<inventors>
Alexandre, Rex Thomas
Steinberg, Alexander Gabriel
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606880
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR NON-CONTINUOUS DEPOSITION OF A COMPONENT
</title>

<abstract>
A method of manufacturing using an additive manufacturing process includes providing a deposition system, the deposition system configured to provide a plurality of cells to form a blank of a part, depositing a first layer of the blank, the first layer comprising a first deposited cell, a second deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell, and a third deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell and the second deposited cell, and depositing a second layer of the part on the first layer, the second layer comprising a fourth deposited cell, a fifth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell, and a sixth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell and the fifth deposited cell. Each of the first layer and the second layer are formed using non-continuous deposition to form the blank.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of manufacturing using an additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a deposition system, the deposition system configured to provide a plurality of cells to form a blank of a part; depositing a first layer of the blank, the first layer comprising a first deposited cell, a second deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell, and a third deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell and the second deposited cell; and depositing a second layer of the blank on the first layer, the second layer comprising a fourth deposited cell, a fifth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell, and a sixth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell and the fifth deposited cell; and wherein each of the first layer and the second layer are formed using non-continuous deposition to form the blank.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein an order of the non-continuous deposition is based on a list of cells, the list of cells being preprogrammed, each cell in the list of cells corresponding to an associated deposited cell.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the list of cells is sorted based on one or more heuristics.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the list of cells is preprogrammed based on a predicted physical characteristic selected from the group consisting of stress, strain, deformation, temperature, deposited cell thermal history, and combinations thereof.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the list of cells is sorted at least in part to maximize space between a deposited cell most recently deposited and a next deposited cell to be deposited.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the list of cells is re-sorted while the blank is being formed.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first layer comprises a plurality of deposited cells arranged in a grid pattern.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first layer comprises a plurality of overlapping deposited cells.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the deposition system is operably configured to provide a material selected from the group consisting of a metal, an alloy, a plastic, a composite, a glass, and a combination thereof.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the deposition system can be programmed such that timing and/or order of deposition can be selected to provide that each of the first deposited cell, the second deposited cell, and the third deposited cell are deposited in an area having a temperature below a preprogrammed maximum temperature.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the deposition system is a welding system.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising machining the blank to form the part.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein machining the blank comprises removing less than 30 percent of the blank to form the part.
14. A method of manufacturing using an additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a welding system, the welding system configured to provide a plurality of metal cells to form a metal blank of a metal part; depositing a first layer of the metal blank, the first layer comprising a first deposited cell, a second deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell, and a third deposited cell spaced apart from the first deposited cell and the second deposited cell; and depositing a second layer of the metal part on the first layer, the second layer comprising a fourth deposited cell, a fifth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell, and a sixth deposited cell spaced apart from the fourth deposited cell and the fifth deposited cell; and wherein each of the first layer and the second layer are formed using non-continuous deposition to form the metal blank.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein an order of the non-continuous deposition is based on a preprogrammed list of cells, each cell in the list of cells corresponding to an associated deposited cell.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the list of cells is preprogrammed based on a predicted physical characteristic selected from the group consisting of stress, strain, deformation, temperature, deposited cell thermal history, and combinations thereof.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the list of cells is sorted at least in part to maximize space between a deposited cell most recently deposited and a next deposited cell to be deposited.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the list of cells is resorted while the blank is being formed.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the first layer comprises a plurality of deposited cells arranged in a grid pattern.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the deposition system can be programmed such that timing or order of deposition can be selected to provide that each of the first deposited cell, the second deposited cell, and the third deposited cell are deposited in an area having a temperature below a preprogrammed maximum temperature.
21. The method of claim 14, further comprising machining the metal blank to form the metal part.
22. A method of manufacturing using an additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a deposition system, the deposition system configured to provide a plurality of cells to form a blank of a part; depositing a first layer of the blank, the first layer comprising a plurality of first layer deposited cells, wherein each of the plurality of first layer deposited cells is formed using non-continuous deposition; and depositing a second layer of the blank on the first layer, the second layer comprising a plurality of second layer deposited cells, wherein each of the plurality of second layer deposited cells is formed using non-continuous deposition; and machining the blank to form the part.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein an order of the non-continuous deposition is based on a preprogrammed list of cells, each cell in the list of cells corresponding to an associated deposited cell.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the list of cells is preprogrammed based on a predicted physical characteristic selected from the group consisting of stress, strain, deformation, temperature, deposited cell thermal history, and combinations thereof.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the list of cells is sorted at least in part to maximize space between a deposited cell most recently deposited and a next deposited cell to be deposited.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the list of cells is resorted while the blank is being formed.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein the first layer comprises a first pattern, the second layer comprises a second pattern, and the first pattern differs from the second pattern.
28. The method of claim 1, wherein the deposition system can be programmed such that timing or order of deposition can be selected to provide that each of the first deposited cell, the second deposited cell, and the third deposited cell are deposited in an area having a temperature below a preprogrammed maximum temperature.
29. A method of manufacturing using an additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: providing a welding system comprising an articulated robot, a weld gun coupled to the robot, and a controller operably coupled with the robot, the welding system operably configured to provide a plurality of substantially cylindrical cells to form a blank of a part; depositing a first layer of the blank, the first layer comprising a plurality of first layer deposited cells, wherein each of the plurality of first layer deposited cells is formed using non-continuous deposition in a first pattern; and depositing a second layer of the blank on the first layer, the second layer comprising a plurality of second layer deposited cells, wherein each of the plurality of second layer deposited cells is formed using non-continuous deposition and has a second pattern, wherein the first pattern differs from the second pattern; and machining the blank to form the part.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the welding system is configured to feed a welding wire through the weld gun while the articulated robot is moving the weld gun from a first location corresponding to a deposited cell most recently deposited and a second location corresponding to a next deposited cell location.
</claims>
</document>
