<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C04B14/28,C04B28/18,C04B40/00,C04B40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IMERTECH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEVAGEN, ALEXANDRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57394503
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYNTHETIC MARBLE ITEMS AND METHODS OF MAKING THEM
</title>

<abstract>
In an aspect, there is provided a shaped item comprising a synthetic marble-like material. In an aspect, there is provided a method for producing a shaped item comprising a synthetic marble-like material.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A shaped item comprising a synthetic marble-like material, wherein the shaped item is an item of sanitary ware and/or has a feature selected from a convex surface, a concave surface and an aperture, which may extend partially or completely through the shaped item, wherein the synthetic marble-like material comprises a composite material comprising a plurality of filler particles and a plurality of adherent bodies, wherein each adherent body includes a core comprising an alkali earth metal silicate, a silica-containing first or inner layer, and an alkali earth metal carbonate-containing second or outer layer, wherein the plurality of adherent bodies and the plurality of filler particles together form one or more bonding matrices and the adherent bodies and the filler particles may be substantially evenly dispersed therein and bonded together.
2. The item according to claim 1, wherein the item is an item of sanitary ware selected from a toilet bowl, a shower receiver, a bath tub, a wash bowl, a urinal, a strainer for a urinal, or a flush tank for a toilet or a urinal.
3. The item according to claim 1, wherein the adherent bodies have been formed from particles comprising a calcium silicate, by the reaction with CO2, to form the first or inner layer and the second or outer layer of the adherent bodies.
4. (canceled)
5. The item according to claim 1, wherein the filler particles comprise calcium carbonate.
6. The item according to claim 1, wherein the filler particles comprise a material selected from limestone, chamottes, feldspars, quartz, kaolins, mica, calcium carbonate, alumina, corundum, frit and glass cullet.
7. The item according to claim 1, wherein the weight ratio of adherent bodies:filler particles is from about 15:85 to 50:50.
8. The item according to claim 1, wherein the item comprises a substrate having a layer of the synthetic marble-like material thereon.
9. The item according to claim 8, wherein the substrate comprises a porous inorganic material.
10. The item according to claim 9, wherein the porous inorganic material is selected from a porous geopolymer, porous concrete, glass foam, glass wool, expanded perlite, expanded clay, and consolidated diatomite earth.
11. The item according to claim 9, wherein the item is producible by providing the substrate, which is a porous structure having open pores on a surface thereof, and applying a precursor for the synthetic marble-like material on the surface having the open pores, such that at least some of the pores are at least partially filled with the precursor material, and curing the precursor to form the synthetic marble-like material.
12. The item according to claim 1, wherein a protective layer has been applied over at least one surface of the synthetic marble-like material.
13. The item according to claim 12, wherein the protective layer comprises a material selected from a polymeric material and an inorganic material.
14. A method for making a shaped item comprising a synthetic marble-like material, wherein the synthetic marble-like material comprises a composite material comprising a plurality of filler particles and a plurality of adherent bodies, wherein each adherent body includes a core comprising an alkali earth metal silicate, a silica-containing first or inner layer, and an alkali earth metal carbonate-containing second or outer layer, and wherein the plurality of adherent bodies and the plurality of filler particles together form one or more bonding matrices and the adherent bodies and the filler particles may be substantially evenly dispersed therein and bonded together, the method comprising providing a mixture of (i) precursor particles comprising an alkali earth metal silicate and (ii) filler particles, which together form a precursor to the synthetic marble-like material, and reacting the precursor particles with CO2 to form the adherent bodies having a core of an alkali earth metal silicate and a silica-containing first or inner layer, and an alkali earth metal carbonate-containing second or outer layer, such that the adherent bodies and filler particles are bonded together in one or more matrices to form the synthetic marble-like material, wherein the shaped item is an item of sanitary ware and/or has a feature selected from a convex surface, a concave surface and an aperture, which may extend partially or completely through the shaped item.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein the reacting involves hydrothermal liquid phase sintering (HLPS).
16. A method according to claim 14, wherein the method involves mixing a particulate composition and a liquid composition to form a slurry mixture, wherein the particulate composition comprises the precursor particles comprising a ground calcium silicate, and the filler particles comprise a first ground calcium carbonate, and wherein the liquid composition comprises: water; casting the slurry mixture in a mold or on a substrate; and curing the casted mixture at a temperature in the range from about 20° C. to about 150° C. for about 1 hour to about 80 hours under an atmosphere of water and CO2 to produce the synthetic marble-like material.
17. A method according to claim 16, wherein the precursor particles comprising the ground calcium silicate have a median particle size in the range from about 1 μm to about 100 μm.
18. 18-22. (canceled)
23. A method according to claim 14, wherein the method involves providing a porous mould, disposing a precursor material comprising (i) the precursor particles comprising an alkali earth metal silicate and (ii) filler particles in the porous mould, injecting a curing gas comprising CO2 into the porous mould, such that it is transported through the pores of the mould and contacts the precursor material, curing the precursor material to form the shaped item, in the form of a layer of synthetic marble-like material on the surface of the mould, and removing the shaped item from the mould.
24. A method according to claim 14, wherein the method involves forming the synthetic marble-like material on a substrate, to which the synthetic marble-like material adheres.
25. 25-27. (canceled)
28. A method according to claim 14, wherein the substrate is selected from a porous geopolymer, porous concrete, glass foam, glass wool, expanded perlite, expanded clay, and consolidated diatomite earth.
29. A method according to claim 14, wherein the item is an item of sanitary ware selected from a toilet bowl, a shower receiver, a bath tub, a wash bowl, a urinal, a strainer for a urinal, and a flush tank for a toilet or a urinal.
</claims>
</document>
