<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04W12/06,H04W24/08,H04W4/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MobileComm Ventures LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Raju, C.G. Venkatesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102498
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WiFi Network Monitoring Smart Sensor and Network Early Warning Platform
</title>

<abstract>
A smart WiFi system includes a smart sensor which has a WiFi interface configured to communicate data via a WiFi network, a LTE interface configured to communicate data via a LTE network, an IP interface configured to communicate data via an IP network, a fallback module configured to detect failure in one of the WiFi, LTE, and IP networks and switch data communication to a viable network, an RF scanner configured to detect and identify RF signals in the surrounding environment for assessment of network quality and operating status, a test logic module configured to administer a plurality of tests designed to test the operations of the networks and network components, and a logging module configured to compile a record of received sensor data, network data, and network operating parameters and storing the data in a database. The system further includes a smart analytic platform that is in communication with the smart sensor. The smart analytic platform includes a data analytic module configured to analyze network data to determine network operating parameters and issue early warning in response to network alarms, and a dashboard module configured to present the sensor data, network data, data related to network operating parameters, and early warnings on a display screen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A smart WiFi system comprising: a smart sensor comprising: a WiFi interface configured to communicate data via a WiFi network; a LTE interface configured to communicate data via a LTE network; an IP interface configured to communicate data via an IP network; a fallback module configured to detect failure in one of the WiFi, LTE, and IP networks and switch data communication to a viable network; an RF scanner configured to detect and identify RF signals in the surrounding environment for assessment of network quality and operating status; a test logic module configured to administer a plurality of tests designed to test the operations of the networks and network components; and a logging module configured to compile a record of received sensor data, network data, and network operating parameters and storing the data in a database; and a smart analytic platform in communication with the smart sensor comprising: a data analytic module configured to analyze network data to determine network operating parameters and issue early warning in response to network alarms; and a dashboard module configured to present the sensor data, network data, data related to network operating parameters, and early warnings on a display screen.
2. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, further comprising an app docker.
3. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, wherein the smart sensor is configured to couple to an access point device via a USB interface.
4. The smart WiFi system of claim 3, wherein the smart sensor is configured to obtain power over multiple sources including Ethernet (PoE), a backup battery, and via the USB interface with the access point device.
5. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, wherein the RF scanner is configured to detect and receive data via multiple RF channels including at least one of WiFi, LTE, and IP channels.
6. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, wherein the RF scanner is configured to passively collect data transmitted via at least one of WiFi, BLE, and LTE channels for link quality monitoring and assessment.
7. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, wherein the smart analytic platform resides in a cloud-based computing device.
8. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, further comprising a GPS interface configured to receive GPS signals and extract an accurate clock signal therefrom for use by the smart sensor.
9. The smart WiFi system of claim 1, wherein the smart analytic platform further comprises a web browser-based graphical user interface.
10. A smart WiFi sensor comprising: a WiFi interface configured to communicate data via a WiFi network; a LTE interface configured to communicate data via a LTE network; an IP interface configured to communicate data via an IP network; a fallback module configured to detect failure in one of the WiFi, LTE, and IP networks and switch data communication to a viable network; an RF scanner configured to detect and identify RF signals in the surrounding environment for assessment of network quality and operating status; a test logic module configured to administer a plurality of tests designed to test the operations of the networks and network components; and a logging module configured to compile a record of received sensor data, network data, and network operating parameters and storing the data in a database.
11. The smart WiFi sensor of claim 10, wherein the smart sensor is configured to communicate with a smart analytic platform that comprises: a data analytic module configured to analyze network data to determine network operating parameters and issue early warning in response to network alarms; and a dashboard module configured to present the sensor data, network data, data related to network operating parameters, and early warnings on a display screen.
12. The smart WiFi system of claim 10, wherein the smart sensor is configured to couple to an access point device via a USB interface.
13. The smart WiFi system of claim 12, wherein the smart sensor is configured to obtain power over multiple sources including Ethernet (PoE), a backup battery, and via the USB interface with the access point device.
14. The smart WiFi system of claim 10, wherein the RF scanner is configured to detect and receive data via multiple RF channels including at least one of WiFi, LTE, and IP channels.
15. The smart WiFi system of claim 10, wherein the RF scanner is configured to passively collect data transmitted via at least one of WiFi, BLE, and LTE channels for link quality monitoring and assessment.
16. The smart WiFi system of claim 10, further comprising a GPS interface configured to receive GPS signals and extract an accurate clock signal therefrom for use by the smart sensor.
17. The smart WiFi system of claim 11, wherein the smart analytic platform further comprises a web browser-based graphical user interface.
18. The smart WiFi system of claim 11, wherein the smart analytic platform resides in a cloud-based computing device.
19. A smart sensor for directly interfacing with an access point, the sensor comprising: a communication interface configured to selectively communicate data via at least one of a plurality of wireless and wired communication channels; a fallback module configured to detect failure in one of the plurality of communication channels and switch data communication to a viable communication channel; an RF scanner configured to detect and identify RF signals in the surrounding environment for assessment of network quality and operating status; a test logic module configured to administer a plurality of tests designed to test the operations of the networks and network components; a logging module configured to compile a record of received sensor data, network data, and network operating parameters and storing the data in a database; and wherein the smart sensor is configured to communicate with a smart analytic platform residing in a remote computing device.
20. The smart sensor of claim 19, further comprising: A WiFi interface configured to communicate data via a WiFi network; a LTE interface configured to communicate data via a LTE network; and an IP interface configured to communicate data via an IP network.
</claims>
</document>
