<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06F3/0346
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAFFA, GIUSEPPE
SHARMA SANGITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50974053
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR GESTURE-BASED INITIATION OF INTER-DEVICE WIRELESS CONNECTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for gesture-based device connections are described. For example, a method may comprise receiving video data corresponding to motion of a first computing device, receiving sensor data corresponding to motion of the first computing device, comparing, by a processor, the video data and the sensor data to one or more gesture models, and initiating establishment of a wireless connection between the first computing device and a second computing device if the video data and sensor data correspond to gesture models for the same gesture. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-30. (canceled)
31. An apparatus, comprising: a memory; and logic, at least a portion of which is comprised in circuitry coupled to the memory, the logic to: identify first data corresponding to motion of a first computing device, the first data captured by a second computing device; identify second data corresponding to motion of the first computing device, the second data captured by the first computing device; determine the first data corresponds to a gesture signature based on a first gesture model associated with the gesture signature; determine the second data corresponds to the gesture signature based on a second gesture model associated with the gesture signature; and initiate establishment of a wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature.
32. The apparatus of claim 31, the first data comprising video data collected by an optical sensor and the first gesture model comprising a vision based gesture model.
33. The apparatus of claim 31, the second data comprising sensor data collected by an accelerometer and the second gesture model comprising an inertial sensor based gesture model.
34. The apparatus of claim 31, the logic to: identify a first time stamp associated with the first data; identify a second time stamp associated with the second data; and determine the first and second data were captured at substantially a same time.
35. The apparatus of claim 34, the logic to initiate establishment of the wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature and determination the first and second data were captured at substantially the same time.
36. The apparatus of claim 31, the gesture signature comprising two or more of a start pose of the first computing device, one or more movements of the first computing device, and an end pose of the first computing device.
37. The apparatus of claim 31, comprising an optical sensor to collect video data.
38. The apparatus of claim 31, comprising an accelerometer to collect sensor data.
39. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed by a processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: identify first data corresponding to motion of a first computing device, the first data captured by a second computing device; identify second data corresponding to motion of the first computing device, the second data captured by the first computing device; determine the first data corresponds to a gesture signature based on a first gesture model associated with the gesture signature; determine the second data corresponds to the gesture signature based on a second gesture model associated with the gesture signature; and initiate establishment of a wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature.
40. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 39, the first data comprising video data collected by an optical sensor and the first gesture model comprising a vision based gesture model.
41. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 39, the second data comprising sensor data collected by an accelerometer and the second gesture model comprising an inertial sensor based gesture model.
42. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 39, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: identify a first time stamp associated with the first data; identify a second time stamp associated with the second data; and determine the first and second data were captured at substantially a same time.
43. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 42, comprising instructions that, in response to being executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to initiate establishment of the wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature and determination the first and second data were captured at substantially the same time.
44. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 39, the gesture signature comprising two or more of a start pose of the first computing device, one or more movements of the first computing device, and an end pose of the first computing device.
45. A method, comprising: identifying first data corresponding to motion of a first computing device, the first data captured by a second computing device; identifying second data corresponding to motion of the first computing device, the second data captured by the first computing device; determining the first data corresponds to a gesture signature based on a first gesture model associated with the gesture signature; determining the second data corresponds to the gesture signature based on a second gesture model associated with the gesture signature; and initiating establishment of a wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature.
46. The method of claim 45, the first data comprising video data collected by an optical sensor and the first gesture model comprising a vision based gesture model.
47. The method of claim 45, the second data comprising sensor data collected by an accelerometer and the second gesture model comprising an inertial sensor based gesture model.
48. The method of claim 45, comprising: identifying a first time stamp associated with the first data; identifying a second time stamp associated with the second data; and determining the first and second data were captured at substantially a same time.
49. The method of claim 48, comprising initiating establishment of the wireless connection between the first computing device and the second computing device based on determination the first data and the second data correspond to the gesture signature and determination the first and second data were captured at substantially the same time.
50. The method of claim 45, the gesture signature comprising two or more of a start pose of the first computing device, one or more movements of the first computing device, and an end pose of the first computing device.
</claims>
</document>
