<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
KAIST (KOREA ADVANCED INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIN, SEUNG WON
PARK, KIBEOM
SHIN, HYUNHO
LEE, Seung Hyeon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65362265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR HANDLING NETWORK ATTACKS IN SOFTWARE DEFINED NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a pre-5th-Generation (5G) or 5G communication system to be provided for supporting higher data rates Beyond 4th-Generation (4G) communication system such as Long Term Evolution (LTE). The present disclosure provides an apparatus and a method for handling a network attack in a software defined network (SDN). The method for handling a network attack in an SDN according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes detecting a first candidate of the network attack in a flow during a first time interval, in response to detecting the first candidate, changing quality of service (QoS) of the flow from first QoS to second QoS, detecting a second candidate of the network attack in the flow of the second QoS during a second time interval following the first time interval, and in response to detecting the second candidate, blocking the flow. The apparatus and the method according to various embodiments of the present disclosure may gradually block a network attack through multiple levels, to thus reduce the probability of determining a wrong network attack and to lower a recovery cost for network failure. Therefore, the apparatus and the method according to various embodiments of the present disclosure enable efficient network management.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-15. (canceled)
16. A method for handling a network attack in a software defined network (SDN), comprising: detecting a first candidate of the network attack in a flow during a first time interval; in response to detecting the first candidate, changing quality of service (QoS) of the flow from first QoS to second QoS; detecting a second candidate of the network attack in the flow of the second QoS during a second time interval following the first time interval; and in response to detecting the second candidate, blocking the flow.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein detecting the first candidate comprises: receiving statistics information regarding a plurality of flows which comprise the flow; based on the statistics information, determining a network feature of the flows; generating a detection model to detect the network attack, based on the network feature; and detecting the first candidate by applying the detection model to the flow.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the statistics information comprises parameter values of parameters associated with the flows, and the parameters comprise at least one of time elapsed after a flow rule is set, time for erasing the flow rule if matching for the flow rule does not occur, time for erasing the flow rule regardless of the matching for the flow rule, a packet size of the matched flow rule, and the number of packets matched to the flow rule.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: detecting an input for selecting at least one of the parameters through a user interface (UI), wherein determining the network feature comprises: identifying a parameter value of the at least one parameter.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the detecting the first candidate comprises: detecting a plurality of alerts in the flow during the first time interval; and if the number of the alerts is equal to or greater than a reference number, determining that the first candidate is detected.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein setting at least one of a duration of the first time interval, a duration of the second time interval, and the reference number is inputted through the UI.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the second QoS is lower than the first QoS.
23. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining whether a network attack candidate is detected in the flow during at least one time interval; and in response to determining, changing the QoS of the flow, wherein the at least one time interval precedes the first time interval.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein changing the QoS of the flow comprises: if not detecting the candidate, increasing the QoS of the flow.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein the number of times of changing the QoS of the flow exceeds a threshold number, and setting of the threshold number is inputted through a UI.
26. An apparatus for handling a network attack in a software defined network (SDN), comprising: a transceiver; and at least one processor operably coupled to the transceiver, and configured to: detect a first candidate of the network attack in a flow during a first time interval, in response to detecting the first candidate, change quality of service (QoS) of the flow from first QoS to second QoS, detect a second candidate of the network attack in the flow of the second QoS during a second time interval following the first time interval, and block the flow in response to detecting the second candidate.
27. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive statistics information regarding a plurality of flows which comprise the flow, determine a network feature of the flows, based on the statistics information, generate a detection model to detect the network attack, based on the network feature, and detect the first candidate by applying the detection model to the flow.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the statistics information comprises parameter values of parameters associated with the flows, and the parameters comprise at least one of time elapsed after a flow rule is set, time for erasing the flow rule if matching for the flow rule does not occur, time for erasing the flow rule regardless of the matching for the flow rule, a packet size of the matched flow rule, and the number of packets matched to the flow rule.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, further comprising: an input unit for detecting an input for selecting at least one of the parameters through a user interface (UI), wherein, to determine the network feature, the control unit identifies a parameter value of the at least one parameter.
30. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: detect a plurality of alerts in the flow during the first time interval, and if the number of the alerts is equal to or greater than a reference number, determine that the first candidate is detected.
31. The apparatus of claim 30, wherein setting at least one of a duration of the first time interval, a duration of the second time interval, and the reference number is inputted through the UI.
32. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the second QoS is lower than the first QoS.
33. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine whether a network attack candidate is detected in the flow during at least one time interval, and in response to determining, change the QoS of the flow, wherein the at least one time interval precedes the first time interval,
34. The apparatus of claim 33, wherein, if not detecting the candidate, the control unit increases the QoS of the flow.
35. The apparatus of claim 26, wherein the number of times of changing the QoS of the flow exceeds a threshold number, and setting of the threshold number is inputted through a UI.
</claims>
</document>
