<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06F21/71,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXP SEMICONDUCTORS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHAT, JAN-PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69845210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUSES AND METHODS INVOLVING A CIRCUIT FOR DETECTING A HARDWARE-TROJAN
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus includes integrated circuitry (IC) and a further circuit. The IC includes internal circuits having sensitive/secret data (SSD) to be maintained as confidential relative to a suspect Hardware Trojan (HT) and including access ports through which information associated with the internal circuits is accessible by external circuitry associated with the HT. The further circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits that is unique to the integrated circuitry under different operating conditions involving the internal circuits, involving the SSD and involving other data that is functionally associated with an application of the integrated circuitry.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: integrated circuitry including internal circuits having sensitive/secret data (SSD) to be maintained as confidential relative to a suspect Hardware Trojan (HT) and including access ports through which information associated with the internal circuits is accessible by external circuitry associated with the HT; and a further circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits that is unique to the integrated circuitry under different operating conditions involving the internal circuits, involving the SSD and involving other data that is functionally associated with an application of the integrated circuitry.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the further circuit is a heuristics-operative circuit and the behavior of the internal circuits is learned by the heuristics-operative circuit by observing regular channels of the internal circuits and side channels of the internal circuits.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the different operating conditions include accessing the internal circuits using one or more altered versions of the SSD.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a learning-center memory at which the further circuit stores data from which the learned behavior of the internal circuits is developed and correlation instructions.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, the further circuit includes a learning-center memory and correlation instructions to develop the learned behavior of the internal circuits, and to assess and correlate statistics involving operation of the internal circuits under different operating conditions.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, the further circuit includes a learning-center memory and correlation instructions to develop the learned behavior of the internal circuits, and to assess and correlate statistics involving operation of the internal circuits under different operating conditions, wherein the further circuit is to use deep learning instructions for providing feedback data to modify the SSD and the other data that is functionally associated with the application of the integrated circuitry.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the further circuit is to determine probability distributions of: least significant bits (LSB) and second LSB; time intervals between two access to external ports; differences in addresses of memory accesses; and difference in data read or written.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, further including a learning-center memory at which the further circuit stores data from which the learned behavior of the internal circuits is developed by changing or adapting logical operations used to trigger monitoring or recordation events based on a statistic property or an irregularity associated with the internal circuits.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the further circuit is to detect the suspect HT attempting to transmit information via the ports.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the further circuit is to detect the suspect HT attempting to transmit information via the ports associated with manipulation of timing for access of memory.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the further circuit is to detect the suspect HT attempting to transmit information from the integrated circuitry via the internal circuits.
12. For use in integrated circuitry including internal circuits having sensitive/secret data (SSD) and including access ports through information associated with the internal circuits is accessible by external circuitry associated with a Hardware Trojan (HT), a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause a processor of a computing apparatus to: cause a heuristics-operative circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits, the behavior being unique to the integrated circuitry under different operating conditions involving: the internal circuits, the SSD, and other data that is functionally associated with an application of the integrated circuitry; and use the behavior learned by the heuristics-operative circuit to detect or block a suspect HT from accessing the integrated circuitry.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executed to further cause the processor to: observe regular channels of the internal circuits for regular channel data and side channels of the internal circuits for side channel data; correlate modified SSD with the regular channel data and the side channel data; and provide message in response to the correlation exceeding a threshold.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executable to further cause the processor to isolate modified SSD and resulting regular channel data from circuitry of the computing apparatus that operates on the regular channel data.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions are executed to further cause the processor to modify the SSD and other data and, in response, observe regular channels of the internal circuits for regular channel data and side channels of the internal circuits for side channel data.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions are executed to further cause the processor to: correlate modified SSD and other data with regular channel data and side channel data; and in response to correlation exceeding a threshold, provide an indication of detection of a suspect HT attempting to transmit information.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executed to further cause the processor to: observe SSD with regular channel data and side channel data; correlate modified SSD with regular channel data and side channel data; and in response to correlation exceeding a threshold, provide an indication of detection of a suspect HT attempting to transmit information.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions to cause the heuristics-operative circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits are executed to further cause the processor to: observe SSD with regular channel data and side channel data; cause the heuristics-operative circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits using deep learning instructions; and determine thresholds for respective learned behaviors.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions to cause the heuristics-operative circuit to learn behavior of the internal circuits are executed to further cause the processor to determine probability distributions of: least significant bits (LSB) and second LSB; time intervals between two access to external ports; differences in addresses of memory accesses; and difference in data read or written.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executed to further cause the processor to vary a supply voltage in response to detecting the suspect HT and assessing a resulting effect on the suspect HT.
</claims>
</document>
