<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,G06F16/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS INDUSTRY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VITATERNA, JOSEPH F.
Tattleman, Steven
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70614601
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ALARM ISSUE MANAGEMENT FOR A BUILDING MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Alarm issue management for a building automation system comprising a decentralized ledger as well as first, second, and third systems. The decentralized ledger has immutable transaction records validated and secured by a network of peer-to-peer nodes, and the ledger utilizes proof of work to synchronize the nodes. The first, second, and third systems access the transaction records of the ledger relating to a remediation type of a building automation system. The first system provides a first transaction record to the ledger relating to the remediation type. The second system reads the first transaction record of the ledger and provides a second transaction record to the ledger relating to the remediation type based on the first transaction record. The third system reads the first and second transaction records of the ledger and performs an audit of the first and second transaction records of the ledger relating to the remediation type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An alarm information management system comprising: a decentralized ledger of transaction records validated and secured by a network of peer-to-peer nodes, the decentralized ledger utilizing proof of work to synchronize the network of peer-to-peer nodes; a first system configured to access the transaction records of the decentralized ledger relating to a remediation type of a building automation system, the first system providing a first transaction record to the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type; a second system configured to access the transaction records of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation types of the building automation system, the second system reading the first transaction record of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type and providing a second transaction record to the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type based on the first transaction record provided by the first system; and a third system configured to access the transaction records of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation types of the building automation system, the third system reading the first transaction record and the second transaction record of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type and performing an audit of the first transaction record and the second transaction record of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type.
2. The system described by claim 1, wherein the first system is the building automation system that detects an alarm signal at the building automation system and determines the remediation type at the building automation system based on the alarm signal.
3. The system described by claim 2, wherein the remediation type identifies at least one service entity condition selected from the group consisting of trade type, skill level, or geographic location.
4. The system described by claim 1, wherein the second system is a service provider device that replicates the first transaction record provided by the first system at a local ledger of the service provider.
5. The system described by claim 1, wherein the second system provides a third transaction record to the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type to acknowledge completion of service.
6. The system described by claim 1, wherein the third system is an auditor device that replicates the first transaction provided by the first system and the second transaction record provided by the second system at a local ledger of the auditor device.
7. The system described by claim 6, wherein: the transaction records of the decentralized ledger are immutable; and the auditor device performs the audit of the first transaction record and the second transaction record of the decentralized ledger relating to the remediation type without providing any new transaction records to the decentralized ledger that relate to the remediation types of the building automation system and do not relate to the audit.
8. An alarm issue management system of a building automation system for a building management system environment comprising: a communication component of the building automation system configured to detect an alarm signal; a processor of the building automation system configured to determine a remediation type based on the alarm signal; and a blockchain component of the building automation system configured to: provide a service request to a blockchain, the service request including at least one work order task associated with the remediation type and at least one service entity condition; receive a service acceptance associated with the at least one work order task from the blockchain, the service acceptance identifying at least one accepting service entity; and receive a service completion associated with the at least one work order task from the blockchain, the service completion including a proof of completion.
9. The system described by claim 8, wherein: the at least one service entity condition is a condition selected from the group consisting of trade type, skill level, or geographic location; and the processor maintains records of alarm information associated with the remediation type at the building automation system for an audit.
10. The system described by claim 8, wherein at least one of the communication component or the blockchain component notifies the remediation type to an auditor external to the building automation system.
11. The system described by claim 8, wherein: the processor confirms whether the at least one accepting service entity is acceptable in accordance with the at least one service entity condition of the service request; and the blockchain component provides an acceptance approval of the service acceptance to the blockchain in response to confirming the at least one accepting service entity is acceptable in accordance with the at least one service entity condition.
12. The system described by claim 8, wherein: the processor confirms whether the at least one work order task has been completed based, at least in part, on the proof of completion received from the blockchain in response to receiving the service completion; and the blockchain component provides a completion approval of the service completion to the blockchain in response to confirming the at least one work order task has been completed.
13. A method of alarm issue management by a building automation system for a building management system environment comprising: detecting an alarm signal at the building automation system; determining a remediation type at the building automation system based on the alarm signal; providing a service request to a blockchain, the service request including at least one work order task associated with the remediation type and at least one service entity condition; receiving a service acceptance associated with the at least one work order task from the blockchain, the service acceptance identifying at least one accepting service entity; and receiving a service completion associated with the at least one work order task from the blockchain, the service completion including a proof of completion.
14. The method described by claim 13, further comprising maintaining records of alarm information associated with the remediation type at the building automation system for an audit, wherein the at least one service entity condition is a condition selected from the group consisting of trade type, skill level, or geographic location.
15. The method described by claim 13, further comprising notifying the remediation type to an auditor external to the building automation system.
16. The method described by claim 13, further comprising: confirming whether the at least one accepting service entity is acceptable in accordance with the at least one service entity condition of the service request; and providing an acceptance approval of the service acceptance to the blockchain in response to confirming the at least one accepting service entity is acceptable in accordance with the at least one service entity condition.
17. The method described by claim 13, further comprising: confirming whether the at least one work order task has been completed based, at least in part, on the proof of completion received from the blockchain in response to receiving the service completion; and providing a completion approval of the service completion to the blockchain in response to confirming the at least one work order task has been completed.
18. An alarm issue management system of a service provider for a building management system environment comprising: a communication component of the building automation system configured to identify a service request by a building automation system at a blockchain; a blockchain component of the building automation system configured to: receive the service request from the blockchain, the service request including at least one work order task associated with a remediation type determined by the building automation system and at least one service entity condition; provide a service acceptance associated with the at least one work order task to the blockchain, the service acceptance identifying at least one accepting service entity; and a processor of the building automation system configured to generate a proof of completion associated with the at least one work order task, wherein the blockchain component provides a service completion associated with the at least one work order task to the blockchain, the service completion including the proof of completion.
19. The system described by claim 18, wherein: the at least one service entity condition is a condition selected from the group consisting of trade type, skill level, or geographic location; and the processor maintains records of alarm information associated with the remediation type at the service provider for possible future audit.
20. The system described by claim 18, wherein one of either the communication component or the blockchain component notifies to an auditor external of the building automation system about the alarm information.
21. The system described by claim 18, wherein the proof of completion includes at least one contextual data selected from the group consisting of location information, a machine-readable code, or an image associated with the at least one work order task.
22. The system described by claim 18, wherein the blockchain component receives an acknowledgement from the blockchain in response to providing the service completion.
23. A method of alarm issue management of a service provider for a building management system environment comprising: identifying a service request by a building automation system at a blockchain; receiving the service request from the blockchain, the service request including at least one work order task associated with a remediation type determined by the building automation system and at least one service entity condition; providing a service acceptance associated with the at least one work order task to the blockchain, the service acceptance identifying at least one accepting service entity; generating a proof of completion associated with the at least one work order task; and providing a service completion associated with the at least one work order task to the blockchain, the service completion including the proof of completion.
24. The method described by claim 23, further comprising maintaining records of alarm information associated with the remediation type at the service provider for possible future audit, wherein the at least one service entity condition is a condition selected from the group consisting of trade type, skill level, or geographic location.
25. The method described by claim 23, further comprising notifying to an auditor external of the building automation system about the alarm information.
26. The method described by claim 23, wherein the proof of completion includes at least one contextual data selected from the group consisting of location information, a machine-readable code, or an image associated with the at least one work order task.
27. The method described by claim 23, further comprising receiving an acknowledgement from the blockchain in response to providing the service completion.
</claims>
</document>
