<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/143
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AI MEDICAL SERVICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AOYAMA, KAZUHARU
TADA, TOMOHIRO
KUMAGAI, YOUICHI
TAKIYAMA, HIROTOSHI
ENDO, YUMA
OZAWA, TSUYOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64567036
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A DISEASE DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT METHOD EMPLOYING ENDOSCOPIC IMAGES OF A DIGESTIVE ORGAN, A DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT SYSTEM, A DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT PROGRAM AND A COMPUTER-READABLE RECORDING MEDIUM HAVING THE DIAGNOSIS SUPPORT PROGRAM STORED THEREIN
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network, and the like. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network trains the neural network by using first endoscopic images of the digestive organ, and corresponding to the first endoscopic images, at least one of definitive diagnosis result of being positive or negative for the disease of the digestive organ, a past disease, a severity level, and information corresponding to an imaged region. The trained neural network outputs, based on second endoscopic images of the digestive organ, at least one of a probability of being positive and/or negative for the disease of the digestive organ, a probability of a past disease, a severity level of the disease, and the information corresponding to the imaged region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network, the method comprising training a neural network by using first endoscopic images of the digestive organ, and corresponding to the first endoscopic images, at least one definitive diagnosis result of being positive or negative for a disease of the digestive organ, a past disease, a severity level, and information corresponding to an imaged region, the trained neural network outputting, based on second endoscopic images of the digestive organ, at least one of a probability of being positive and/or negative for the disease of the digestive organ, a probability of the past disease, a severity level of the disease, and the information corresponding to the imaged region.
2. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the first endoscopic images are adjusted in contrast.
3. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the first endoscopic images are associated with respective imaged regions.
4. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 3, wherein the region includes at least one of a pharynx, an esophagus, a stomach, and a duodenum.
5. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 3, wherein the region is segmented in a plurality of portions for at least one of the digestive organs.
6. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 5, wherein when the region is a stomach, the segments include at least one of an upper stomach, a middle stomach, and a lower stomach.
7. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 5, wherein when the region is a stomach, the segments include at least one of a cardia, a gastric fundus, a gastric corpus, an angular region, an antral zone, an antrum, and a pylorus.
8. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 3, wherein when the number of the first endoscopic images in one of the imaged regions is smaller than that in another region, by using at least one of rotation, enlargement, reduction, change in the number of pixels, extraction of bright and dark portions, and extraction of portions having change in hue, for the first endoscopic images, the number of the first endoscopic images is made substantially equal in every region.
9. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 3, wherein the trained neural network is capable of outputting information corresponding to a region at which the second endoscopic images have been imaged.
10. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 9, wherein the trained neural network outputs the probabilities and the severity level together with information corresponding to the region.
11. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the first endoscopic images include gastroscopic images, and the disease includes at least one of with or without H. pylori infection and with or without H. pylori eradication.
12. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the first endoscopic images include colon fiberscope images, the disease includes at least colitis ulcerosa, and the trained neural network outputs a result after being segmented in a plurality of stages according to the severity level of the colitis ulcerosa.
13. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the first endoscopic images include esophagus endoscopic images with Endocytoscopy, the disease includes at least one of esophageal cancer, gastro-esophagus reflux disease, and esophagitis, and the trained neural network outputs a result after being segmented, for at least one of the esophageal cancer, the gastro-esophagus reflux disease, and the esophagitis.
14. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein the second endoscopic images are at least one of images that are being captured with an endoscope, images transmitted via a communication network, images to be provided from a remote operation system or a cloud system, images stored in a computer-readable recording medium, and moving images.
15. The disease diagnosis support method employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 1, wherein a convolutional neural network is used as the neural network.
16. A disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ, the system comprising an endoscopic image input unit, an output unit, and a computer having a neural network embedded therein, wherein the computer includes a first storage area having first endoscopic images of a digestive organ stored therein, a second storage area having, corresponding to the first endoscopic images, at least one definitive diagnosis result stored therein, the result being of being positive or negative for the disease of the digestive organ, a past disease, a severity level, and information corresponding to an imaged region, and a third storage area having the neural network program stored therein, the neural network program is trained based on the first endoscopic images stored in the first storage area and the definitive diagnosis result stored in the second storage area, and the neural network program outputs, based on second endoscopic images of the digestive organ input from the endoscopic image input unit, at least one of a probability of being positive and/or negative for the disease of the digestive organ with respect to the second endoscopic images, a probability of a past disease, a severity level of the disease, and information corresponding to the imaged region.
17. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16, wherein the first endoscopic images are adjusted in contrast.
18. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16, wherein the first endoscopic images are associated with respective imaged regions.
19. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 18, wherein the region includes at least one of a pharynx, an esophagus, a stomach, and a duodenum.
20. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 18, wherein the region is segmented in a plurality of portions for at least one of the digestive organs.
21. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 20, wherein when the region is a stomach, the segments include at least one of an upper stomach, a middle stomach, and a lower stomach.
22. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 20, wherein when the region is a stomach, the segments include at least one of a cardia, a gastric fundus, a gastric corpus, an angular region, an antral zone, an antrum, and a pylorus.
23. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16, wherein when the number of the first endoscopic images in one of the imaged regions is smaller than that in another region, by using at least one of rotation, enlargement, reduction, change in the number of pixels, extraction of bright and dark portions, and extraction of portions having change in hue, for the first endoscopic images, the number of pieces of training/validation data is made substantially equal in every region.
24. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16, wherein the trained neural network program is capable of outputting information corresponding to a region at which the second endoscopic images have been imaged.
25. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 24, wherein the trained neural network program outputs the probabilities or the severity level together with the information corresponding to the region.
26. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16, wherein the first endoscopic images include gastroscopic images, and the disease includes at least one of with or without H. pylori infection and with or without H. pylori eradication.
27. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 16, wherein the first endoscopic images include colon fiberscopic images, the disease includes at least colitis ulcerosa, and the trained neural network program outputs a result after being segmented in a plurality of stages according to the severity level of the colitis ulcerosa.
28. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 16, wherein the first endoscopic images include esophagus endoscopic images with Endocytoscopy, the disease includes at least one of esophageal cancer, gastro-esophagus reflux disease, and esophagitis, and the trained neural network outputs a result after being segmented, for at least one of the esophageal cancer, the gastro-esophagus reflux disease, and the esophagitis.
29. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 16, wherein the second endoscopic images are at least one of images that are being captured with an endoscope, images transmitted via a communication network, images to be provided from a remote operation system or a cloud system, images stored in a computer-readable recording medium, and moving images.
30. The disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ using a neural network according to claim 16, wherein the neural network is a convolutional neural network.
31. A diagnosis support program based on endoscopic images of a digestive organ, the program causing a computer to operate as means in the disease diagnosis support system employing endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 16.
32. A computer-readable recording medium having the diagnosis support program stored therein based on endoscopic images of a digestive organ according to claim 31.
33. A region determination method for a digestive organ employing endoscopic images of the digestive organ using a neural network, the determination method comprising training the neural network by using first endoscopic images of the digestive organ, and definitive information, corresponding to the first endoscopic images, on information corresponding to an imaged region, the trained neural network outputting, based on second endoscopic images of the digestive organ, information corresponding to the imaged region of the digestive organ.
34. A region determination system for a digestive organ employing endoscopic images of the digestive organ using a neural network, the determination system comprising an endoscopic image input unit, an output unit, and a computer having a neural network embedded therein, wherein the computer includes a first storage area having first endoscopic images of a digestive organ stored therein, a second storage area having definitive information, corresponding to the first endoscopic images, on information corresponding to an imaged region of the digestive organ stored therein, and a third storage area having the neural network program stored therein, and the neural network program is trained based on the first endoscopic images stored in the first storage area and the definitive information stored in the second storage area, and the neural network program outputs, based on second endoscopic images of the digestive organ input from the endoscopic image input unit, information corresponding to the imaged region of the digestive organ with respect to the second endoscopic images.
35. A region determination program for a digestive organ employing endoscopic images of the digestive organ, the program causing a computer to operate as means in the region determination system for a digestive organ employing endoscopic images of the digestive organ according claim 34.
36. A computer-readable recording medium having the region determination program for a digestive organ employing endoscopic images of the digestive organ according to claim 35, stored therein.
</claims>
</document>
