<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/0815,G06F12/0888
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOINI, JONATHAN
AXDORFF, TYLER
VELUSAMY, SENTHIL KUMAR MULLUPPADI
Lawler, Calum
Hanson, Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72829428
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACTS CONTROLLER FOR A SHARED FACT SERVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A card engine may dynamically configure content for display via user equipment (UE). A rules engine may provide constructs to the card engine in the form of card definitions, which the card engine may evaluate using facts obtained from a facts controller. The card engine may create a hierarchy of containers, which are logical abstracts for containing cards. The containers in the hierarchy, which may be organized as a tree, may contain card definitions according to respective themes determined by the card engine. Variants may be assigned weights which can be changed dynamically based on factors such as user behavior, account condition, promotions or offerings. The card having the highest weight within its container is advanced up the tree. When a card reaches the top level of the tree, it may be formatted for display via the user interface and transmitted to the UE accordingly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server, comprising: one or more processors; facts storage operatively coupled to the one or more processors; cache storage; and memory to maintain one or more components executable by the one or more processors, the one or more components comprising: a facts controller configured to: receive a request for one or more facts associated with a user of user equipment; in response to the received request: determine whether any of the requested one or more facts are stored in the cache storage; check a facts storage for presence of any of the requested one or more facts determined to be absent from the cache storage; and output requested facts, formatted to evaluate one or more card definitions, that are stored in the facts storage and that are deliverable in accordance with a caching policy; cache, in the cache storage in accordance with the caching policy, one or more of the requested facts coupled with one of the one or more cards with which the user is associated; and decouple coupled cached facts that become undeliverable in accordance with the caching policy.
2. The server of claim 1, wherein the caching policy includes decoupling a coupled fact in response to passing of an expiration date of the coupled fact.
3. The server of claim 1, wherein the facts controller is configured to check, in response to the received request, a facts source that is external to the facts storage and cache storage, for presence of any of the requested one or more facts determined to be absent from the cache storage.
4. The server of claim 1, wherein the facts controller is configured to: receive facts from a source external to the cache storage and facts storage; and deposit the facts received from the external source in the cache storage.
5. The server of claim 1, wherein the one or more of the requested facts coupled with one of the one or more cards in the cache include subfacts and one or more parent facts to the subfacts; and wherein the decoupling of the coupled cached facts includes decoupling cached subfacts that become undeliverable in accordance with decoupling coupled cached facts that are parent facts to the decoupled cached subfacts.
6. The server of claim 1, wherein the caching policy includes decoupling a coupled fact in response to a change in sensitivity of the coupled fact.
7. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that upon execution cause one or more processors to perform acts comprising: receiving a request for one or more facts associated with a user of user equipment; in response to receiving the request: determining whether any of the requested one or more facts are stored in a cache; checking a facts storage for presence of any of the requested one or more facts determined to be absent from the cache; and outputting requested facts, formatted to evaluate one or more card definitions, that are stored in the facts storage and that are deliverable in accordance with a caching policy; caching, in the cache in accordance with the caching policy, one or more of the requested facts coupled with one of the one or more cards with which the user is associated; and decoupling coupled cached facts that become undeliverable in accordance with the caching policy.
8. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, wherein the caching policy includes decoupling a coupled fact in response to passing of an expiration date of the coupled fact.
9. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, further comprising: checking, in response to the received request, a facts source that is external to the facts storage and cache, for presence of any of the requested one or more facts determined to be absent from the cache.
10. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, further comprising: receiving facts from a source external to the cache and facts storage; and depositing the facts received from the external source in the cache.
11. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, wherein: the requested facts include subfacts and one or more parent facts to the subfacts; the outputting of the requested facts includes outputting subfacts associated with the user of the user equipment, formatted to evaluate one or more card definitions, that are stored in the facts storage and that are deliverable in accordance with the caching policy; the caching of the one or more of the output facts includes caching, in the cache in accordance with the caching policy, one or more of the output subfacts coupled with one of the one or more cards with which the output subfacts are associated; and the decoupling of the coupled cached facts includes decoupling cached subfacts that become undeliverable in accordance with decoupling coupled cached facts that are parent facts to the decoupled cache subfacts.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, wherein the caching policy includes decoupling a coupled fact in response to a change in sensitivity of the coupled fact.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 7, further comprising bypassing the cache in accordance with the request with respect to specified ones of the requested one or more facts.
14. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a request for one or more facts associated with a user of user equipment; checking a cache in accordance with the received request for presence of the requested one or more facts; determining whether all of the requested one or more facts are present in the cache; checking a facts storage for presence of any of the requested facts determined to be absent from the cache; and outputting requested facts, formatted to evaluate one or more card definitions, that are determined to be present in the cache or facts storage.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: obtaining one or more of the requested one or more facts from the cache, subject to a caching policy that prevents outputting from the cache of a fact that is past an expiration date of the fact.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein: the requested facts include subfacts and one or more parent facts to the subfacts; and the caching policy prevents outputting of a subfact from the cache in response to the parent fact of the subfact becoming undeliverable in accordance with the caching policy.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: checking, in response to the received request, a facts source that is external to the facts storage and cache, for presence of any of the requested one or more facts determined to be absent from the cache.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving facts from a source external to the cache and facts storage; and depositing the facts received from the external source in the cache.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: obtaining one or more of the requested one or more facts from the cache, subject to a caching policy that prevents outputting from the cache of a fact in accordance with a change in sensitivity of the fact.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: bypassing the cache in accordance with the request with respect to specified ones of the requested one or more facts.
</claims>
</document>
