<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
GOODSITT, JEREMY
WALTER S. AUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65529241
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROUTING FOR LARGE SERVER DEPLOYMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, the present disclosure relates to a method comprising: receiving, at a client device, information from a node manager about a plurality of nodes in a computer cluster, the information comprising a network address associated each of the plurality of nodes and sending, by the client device, a request to a load balancer to access a first node from the plurality of nodes, the request comprising a first URL including an encoded representation of the network address associated with the first node. The load balancer is configured to determine the request should be routed to a first network address based on decoding the URL, the first network address associated with a first node from the plurality of nodes and forward the request to the first node in response to the determining.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a node manager means for managing a plurality of nodes within a computer cluster and maintaining a lookup table of network addresses associated with the plurality of nodes; and a load balancer means for routing requests from client devices to ones of the plurality of nodes using information within the requests and without having prior knowledge of the network addresses associated with the plurality of nodes.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the node manager means is configured to: receive a first request from a client device; generate a plurality of uniform resource locators (URLs), each of the plurality of URLs comprising an encoded representation of a network address associated with a respective node from a plurality of nodes in a computer cluster; and send a first response to the client device, the first response comprising the plurality of URLs to a client device.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node comprises that respective node's internal network address.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node comprises encoding a path portion of a respective URL.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the load balancer means is configured to: receive a second request from the client device, the second request comprising a first URL from the plurality of URLs; determine the second request should be routed to a first network address based on decoding the first URL, the first network address associated with a first node from the plurality of nodes; and forward the second request to the first node in response to the determining.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of URLs comprises a hash of an Internet Protocol (IP) address associated with a respective node from the plurality of nodes.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein generating the plurality of URLs comprises generating a web page comprising the plurality of URLs in response to receiving the request from the client device.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the load balancer means is configured to: receive a second response from the first node; and forward the second response to the client device.
9. A method, comprising: generating, by the computing system, a plurality of uniform resource locators (URLs), each of the plurality of URLs comprising an encoded representation of a network address associated with a respective node from a plurality of nodes in a computer cluster; sending, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs to a client device; receiving, by the computing system, a request from the client device, the request comprising a first URL from the plurality of URLs; decoding, by the computing system, the first URL to determine a location to which the request should be routed; and routing, by the computing system, the request to the identified location based on the decoding.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein decoding, by the computing device, the first URL to determine the location to which the request should be routed comprises: determining that the request should be routed to a first network address associated with a first node from the plurality of nodes.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein generating, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs, each of the plurality of URLs comprising the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node from the plurality of nodes in the computer cluster comprises: encoding a respective URL with a corresponding node's internal network address.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein generating, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs, each of the plurality of URLs comprising the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node from the plurality of nodes in the computer cluster comprises: encoding a path portion of a respective URL with a respective encoded representation of the network address.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of URLs comprises a hash of an Internet Protocol (IP) address associated with a respective node from the plurality of nodes.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the plurality of URLs comprises generating a web page comprising the plurality of URLs in response to receiving the request from the client device.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receive, by the computing system, a response from the first node; and forward, by the computing system, the response to the client device.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the processors to perform operations comprising: generating, by the computing system, a plurality of uniform resource locators (URLs), each of the plurality of URLs comprising an encoded representation of a network address associated with a respective node from a plurality of nodes in a computer cluster; sending, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs to a client device; receiving, by the computing system, a request from the client device, the request comprising a first URL from the plurality of URLs; decoding, by the computing device, the first URL to determine a location to which the request should be routed; and routing, by the computing system, the request to the identified location based on the decoding.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein decoding, by the computing device, the first URL to determine the location to which the request should be routed comprises: determining that the request should be routed to a first network address associated with a first node from the plurality of nodes.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein generating, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs, each of the plurality of URLs comprising the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node from the plurality of nodes in the computer cluster comprises: encoding a respective URL with a corresponding node's internal network address.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein generating, by the computing system, the plurality of URLs, each of the plurality of URLs comprising the encoded representation of the network address associated with the respective node from the plurality of nodes in the computer cluster comprises: encoding a path portion of a respective URL with a respective encoded representation of the network address.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of URLs comprises a hash of an Internet Protocol (IP) address associated with a respective node from the plurality of nodes.
</claims>
</document>
