<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/295,G16H10/60,G16H20/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H70/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Lindvall, Charlotta
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73649949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD OF USING MACHINE LEARNING FOR EXTRACTION OF SYMPTOMS FROM ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for autonomously identifying symptom terms in free running text data includes the acts of defining a plurality of symptom terms associated with a particular pathology or therapeutic substance or procedure, labeling in a text data set any defined symptom terms and associating a tag indicating any of a positive, negative, or other status with relation to the labeled symptom term, and processing with a natural language processing algorithm multiple different subsets of the text data containing labeled symptom terms to identify a frequency of occurrence of a symptom term and to improve identification accuracy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying symptom in text data comprising: A) processing a plurality of free-running text into a segmented text data set; B) labeling, in the text data set, symptom terms and associating a tag with a labeled symptom term, the tag indicating any of a positive, negative, or other status with the symptom term; C) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, a first subset of the text data set containing labeled symptom terms; and D) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, a second subset of the text data set containing labeled symptom terms.
2. The method claim 1 further comprising: E) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, a third subset of the text data containing labeled symptom terms.
3. The method claim 1 further comprising: E) following D), processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, another text data set not containing labeled symptom terms,
4. The method claim 3 further comprising: E) correlating a frequency of a labeled symptom term having a tag indicating a positive status with any of a pathology, therapeutic substance, therapeutic procedure, or therapeutic device
5. The method claim 1 wherein B) comprises: B1) labeling another term in a same segment of the text data set as an attribute of a labeled symptom term, if the another term describes any of a negation, frequency, severity, change or interference with a symptom identified by the labeled symptom term.
6. The method claim 5 wherein the other correlation status with the symptom term is context-dependent status.
7. The method claim 1 wherein the other correlation status with the symptom term is a neutral status.
8. The method claim 1 wherein a symptom term or another term comprises any of a single word, multiple words, number, acronym, graphic element or any combination thereof.
9. The method claim 1 wherein the plurality of symptom terms are associated with any of a pathology, therapeutic substance, therapeutic procedure, or therapeutic device.
10. The method claim 1 wherein C) comprises processing the first subset of the text data with any of a Conditional Random Field Model process.
11. A method for identifying symptom in text data comprising: A) defining a plurality of symptom terms; B) selecting a text data set including at least a subset of the plurality of defined symptom terms; C) labeling, in the text data set, defined symptom terms and associating a position of the labeled symptom term within the text data set and further associating a tag indicating any of a positive, negative, or other status with the labeled symptom term; D) processing, with multiple natural language processing algorithms, a first subset of the text data set containing labeled symptom terms to identify a frequency of occurrences of a symptom term in the first subset of the text data; E) scoring accuracy of the multiple natural language processing algorithms in processing the first subset of the text data; and F) processing, with a natural language processing algorithm having greatest accuracy in step E), a second subset of the text data set containing labeled symptom terms.
12. The method claim 11 further comprising: G) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, a third subset of the text data containing labeled symptom terms.
13. The method claim 11 further comprising: G) following F), processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, another text data set not containing labeled symptom terms.
14. The method claim 13 further comprising: G) correlating a frequency of a labeled symptom term having a tag indicating a positive status with any of a pathology, therapeutic substance, therapeutic procedure, or therapeutic device.
15. The method claim 11 wherein C) comprises: C1) labeling another term in the text data set as an attribute of a labeled symptom term, if the another term describes any of a negation, frequency, severity, change or interference with a symptom identified by the labeled symptom term.
16. The method claim 15 wherein the other correlation status with the symptom term is context-dependent status.
17. The method claim 11 wherein the other status with the symptom term is a neutral status.
18. The method claim 11 wherein one of the symptom term or another term comprises any of a single word, multiple words, number, acronym, graphic element or any combination thereof.
19. The method claim 11 wherein the plurality of symptom terms are associated with any of a pathology, therapeutic substance, therapeutic procedure, or therapeutic device
20. The method claim 1 wherein D) comprises processing the first subset of the text data with a Conditional Random Field Model process.
21. A method for identifying possible toxicities associated with a therapeutic substance or process comprising: A) identifying in a free running text at least one of a plurality of predefined terms describing a symptom of a subject, associating a label with the identified term, B) associating a tag with a labeled symptom term indicating any of a positive, negative, or other status with the labeled symptom term; C) preprocessing the free running text containing labeled terms and other terms with associated attributes into a format readable by a natural language processing algorithm; D) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, the preprocessed free running text containing labeled terms and terms with associated attributes; and E) processing, with the natural language processing algorithm, other free running text not containing labeled terms or terms with associated attributes.
22. The method claim 21 further comprising: F) generating a correlation relationship between the symptom and a therapeutic.
23. The method claim 22 wherein F) comprises: F1) correlating a frequency of a labeled symptom term having a tag indicating a positive status with any of a pathology, therapeutic compound, therapeutic procedure, or therapeutic device.
24. The method claim 22 further comprising: G) storing a plurality of generated correlations in network accessible memory.
</claims>
</document>
