<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/42,G06K9/62,G06N3/08,G11B27/036,H04N21/234,H04N21/25,H04N21/845,H04N21/8549
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUGHMAN, AARON K.
CANNON, GRAY
HAMMER, STEPHEN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72143024
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC AUDIOVISUAL SEGMENT PADDING FOR MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for padding audiovisual clips (for example, audiovisual clips of sporting events) for the purpose of causing the clip to have a predetermined duration so that the padded clip can be evaluated for viewer interest by a machine learning (ML) algorithm. The unpadded clip is padded with audiovisual segment(s) that will cause the padded clip to have a level of viewer interest that it would have if the unpadded clip had been longer. In some embodiments the padded segments are synthetic images generated by a generative adversarial network such that the synthetic images would have the same level of viewer interest (as adjudged by an ML algorithm) as if the unpadded clip had been shot to be longer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a first unpadded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first unpadded audiovisual segment, with the first unpadded audiovisual segment corresponding to audiovisual data recorded at a sporting contest for a human audience; determining a set of padding time interval(s) occurring before and/or after the first unpadded segment; for each given padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s): determining a respectively corresponding sports viewer interest value that would characterize the given padding time interval if the first unpadded audiovisual segment continued through the given padding time interval and had its sports viewer interest value determined by a machine learning (ML) algorithm, and generating a padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval so that the padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval is characterized by the sports viewer interest value determined for the given padding time interval; assembling the first unpadded audiovisual segment with the padding audiovisual segment(s) corresponding to each padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s) to obtain a first padded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first padded audiovisual segment; and determining, by the ML algorithm, a sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting the first unpadded audiovisual segment for inclusion in a sports highlights reel based, at least in part, upon the sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes generating a synthetic audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the generation of the synthetic audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval is performed by a generative adversarial network (GAN).
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes assembling one, or more, pre-existing audiovisual segments having known sports viewer interest values as determined by the ML algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein: there are two padding time intervals as follows: a first padding time interval occurring immediately before the first unpadded audiovisual segment, and a second padding time interval occurring immediately after the first unpadded audiovisual segment; and the first and second padding time intervals are at least substantially of equal duration.
7. A computer program product (CPP) comprising: a computer readable storage medium; and computer code stored on the computer readable storage medium, with the computer code including instructions for causing a processor(s) set to perform operations including the following: receiving a first unpadded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first unpadded audiovisual segment, with the first unpadded audiovisual segment corresponding to audiovisual data recorded at a sporting contest for a human audience, determining a set of padding time interval(s) occurring before and/or after the first unpadded segment, for each given padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s): determining a respectively corresponding sports viewer interest value that would characterize the given padding time interval if the first unpadded audiovisual segment continued through the given padding time interval and had its sports viewer interest value determined by a machine learning (ML) algorithm, and generating a padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval so that the padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval is characterized by the sports viewer interest value determined for the given padding time interval, assembling the first unpadded audiovisual segment with the padding audiovisual segment(s) corresponding to each padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s) to obtain a first padded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first padded audiovisual segment, and determining, by the ML algorithm, a sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
8. The CPP of claim 7, wherein the computer code further includes instructions for causing the processor(s) set to perform the following operations: selecting the first unpadded audiovisual segment for inclusion in a sports highlights reel based, at least in part, upon the sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
9. The CPP of claim 7 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes generating a synthetic audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval.
10. The CPP of claim 9 wherein the generation of the synthetic audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval is performed by a generative adversarial network (GAN).
11. The CPP of claim 7 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes assembling one, or more, pre-existing audiovisual segments having known sports viewer interest values as determined by the ML algorithm.
12. The CPP of claim 7 wherein: there are two padding time intervals as follows: a first padding time interval occurring immediately before the first unpadded audiovisual segment, and a second padding time interval occurring immediately after the first unpadded audiovisual segment; and the first and second padding time intervals are at least substantially of equal duration.
13. A computer system (CS) comprising: a processor(s) set; a computer readable storage medium; and computer code stored on the computer readable storage medium, with the computer code including instructions for causing the processor(s) set to perform operations including the following: receiving a first unpadded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first unpadded audiovisual segment, with the first unpadded audiovisual segment corresponding to audiovisual data recorded at a sporting contest for a human audience, determining a set of padding time interval(s) occurring before and/or after the first unpadded segment, for each given padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s): determining a respectively corresponding sports viewer interest value that would characterize the given padding time interval if the first unpadded audiovisual segment continued through the given padding time interval and had its sports viewer interest value determined by a machine learning (ML) algorithm, and generating a padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval so that the padding audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval is characterized by the sports viewer interest value determined for the given padding time interval, assembling the first unpadded audiovisual segment with the padding audiovisual segment(s) corresponding to each padding time interval of the set of padding time interval(s) to obtain a first padded audiovisual segment data set including information indicative of a first padded audiovisual segment, and determining, by the ML algorithm, a sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
14. The CS of claim 13, wherein the computer code further includes instructions for causing the processor(s) set to perform the following operations: selecting the first unpadded audiovisual segment for inclusion in a sports highlights reel based, at least in part, upon the sports viewer interest value for the first padded audiovisual segment considered as a whole.
15. The CS of claim 13 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes generating a synthetic audiovisual segment for the given padding time interval.
16. The CS of claim 15 wherein the generation of the synthetic audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval is performed by a generative adversarial network (GAN).
17. The CS of claim 13 wherein the generation of the padding audiovisual segment for each given padding time interval includes assembling one, or more, pre-existing audiovisual segments having known sports viewer interest values as determined by the ML algorithm.
18. The CS of claim 13 wherein: there are two padding time intervals as follows: a first padding time interval occurring immediately before the first unpadded audiovisual segment, and a second padding time interval occurring immediately after the first unpadded audiovisual segment; and the first and second padding time intervals are at least substantially of equal duration.
</claims>
</document>
