<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/336,H04B7/06,H04B7/08,H04L1/00,H04L1/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406593
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIPLE-INPUT MULTIPLE-OUTPUT SYSTEM PERFORMANCE USING ADVANCED RECEIVERS FOR 5G OR OTHER NEXT GENERATION NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Fast calculation of channel state information using demodulation reference signals (DM-RS) is provided herein. The channel state information can be calculated by estimating the signal to noise ratio of a communication link based on the DM-RS, and then estimating the channel quality indicator based on the SINR. The advanced receivers can use list-based detection methods which the estimated SINR can improve the performance thereof. Channel state information is traditionally calculated based on the channel state reference signals (CS-RS). Demodulation reference signals, which are used for channel estimation for a data channel, are transmitted at different times than CS-RS however, and so some portions of the channel state information including layer indicator (LI) and channel quality indicator (CQI) can be calculated based on the demodulation reference signals, allowing a network to adapt more quickly to changing channel conditions, without having to transmit a CS-RS.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user equipment, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, by a receiver of the user equipment that uses list-based detection, a demodulation reference signal to facilitate channel estimation for a data channel of a communication link with a network equipment, wherein the demodulation reference signal is received via a first mode associated with the network equipment; in response to experiencing a signal interference, transmitting a defined rank indicator value to the network equipment to transmit the demodulation reference signal via a second mode different than the first mode; matching a channel quality indicator value to a signal to interference plus noise ratio of the communication link; and transmitting the channel quality indicator value to the network equipment.
2. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: estimating the signal to interference plus noise ratio of the communication link.
3. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the list-based detection comprises maximum likelihood estimation.
4. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the list-based detection comprises maximum a posteriori estimation detection.
5. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the estimating and the matching are performed concurrently with decoding data received via the data channel.
6. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the channel quality indicator value is an estimated channel quality indicator value based on the demodulation reference signal.
7. The user equipment of claim 1, wherein the channel quality indicator value comprises a wideband channel quality indicator value.
8. A network node device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a signal to interference plus noise ratio of a communication link with a user device, determining a modulation and coding scheme that corresponds to a block error rate threshold; transmitting a demodulation reference signal to facilitate channel estimation for a data channel of the communication link with the network node device, wherein the demodulation reference signal is transmitted via a first mode associated with the network node device; based on the signal to interference plus noise ratio, receiving a defined rank indicator value; in response to receiving the defined rank indicator value, transmitting the demodulation reference signal via a second mode different than the first mode; and transmitting a scheduling parameter that corresponds to the modulation and coding scheme to the user device via a downlink control channel.
9. The network node device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the transmitting of the scheduling parameter, facilitating generating a channel quality value by the user equipment.
10. The network node device of claim 9, wherein the channel quality value comprises a sub band channel quality value.
11. The network node device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: determining the signal to interference plus noise ratio of the communication link with the user device.
12. The network node device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a noise co-variance associated with the communication link.
13. The network node device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to determining the signal to interference plus noise ratio, mapping the modulation and coding scheme that corresponds to the block error rate threshold.
14. The network node device of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to determining the signal to interference plus noise ratio, mapping a channel quality indicator value that corresponds to the block error rate threshold.
15. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a base station device, a demodulation reference signal to facilitate a channel estimation associated with a communication link, wherein the demodulation reference signal is received via a first mode associated with the base station device; in response to experiencing a signal interference, transmitting a defined rank indicator value to the base station device to transmit the demodulation reference signal via a second mode different than the first mode; and based on channel state data associated with the communication link, facilitating generating, by the mobile device, a channel quality indicator value associated with the communication link.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: estimating the signal interference of the communication link.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: matching the channel quality indicator value to the signal interference.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein facilitating the generating of the channel quality indicator value is based on a physical downlink shared channel associated with the communication link.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating decoding, by the mobile device, a physical downlink shared channel.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: based on receiving the demodulation reference signal, facilitating generating, by the mobile device, channel state data associated with the communication link.
</claims>
</document>
