<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F16/58,G06F16/907,G06F17/16,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DREAM IT GET IT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELKAIM, MICHAEL
KOPP, MICHAEL
Korjus, Krisjian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56852262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDIA UNIT RETRIEVAL AND RELATED PROCESSES
</title>

<abstract>
Media unit retrieval methods, systems and computer program products are provided that allow a user to search for an item by iteratively presenting media units such as images representing items to the user and receiving user input consisting of selections of the presented media units (including possibly the empty selection). Features, or attributes, a user is interested in, for example semantic features, are inferred from the interaction and media units are retrieved for presentation based on similarity with user-selected media units, through sampling of a probability distribution describing the intent or interests, or combinations of approaches. Accordingly, the user-experience is akin to a conversation about what the user is looking for. Retrieval may be based on both selected and unselected media units and the selection may comprise making a selection with a single action. Further, a database of media units can capture similarity relationships for efficient media unit retrieval.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of transmitting media units or media unit identifiers for presentation of media units, the method comprising transmitting a set of media units or respective media unit identifiers for presentation of the media units, each media unit being associated with a respective feature set defining a set of attribute values for respective attributes or a set of parameters, the parameters defining an attribute-representing probability distribution over attribute values for respective attributes and wherein one or more of the attribute values are derived from neural activations of a hidden layer of an artificial neural network presented with the media unit; and performing the following operations: receiving an input made in response to a presentation of media units of the set of media units; updating an intent probability distribution over attribute values of the attributes using the input; selecting a next set of media units using the updated intent probability distribution; and transmitting the media units of the next set or respective media unit identifiers for presentation of the media units.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input identifies a set of one or more media units that are not selected.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the receiving the input comprises receiving one or more media unit identifiers each identifying a respective selected media unit selected from the presentation of the media units; and updating the intent probability distribution over attribute values of the attributes comprises using each respective feature set of the one or more selected media units.
4. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the intent probability distribution is parameterised by one or more parameters, and updating the intent probability distribution comprises updating a distribution over the parameters using the feature set of any selected media units; and determining updated parameters of the intent probability distribution from the distribution over the parameters.
5. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the updating the intent probability distribution comprises updating the intent probability distribution using the feature set of any of the selected media units and respective feature sets of at least some remaining media units of the media units associated with the presentation of the media units.
6. The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the updating the intent probability distribution comprises sampling sets of attribute values from the intent probability distribution and subsampling the sampled sets of attribute values to define a plurality of subsampled sets of attribute values such as to reduce the similarity between the subsampled set of attribute values and the at least some remaining media units.
7. The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein each feature set defines a respective set of attribute values and updating the intent probability distribution comprises sampling sets of attribute values from the intent probability distribution and subsampling the sampled sets of attribute values to define a plurality of subsampled sets of attribute values such as to reduce or eliminate a probability of a set of attribute values of the plurality subsampled sets of attribute values coinciding with any of the sets of attribute values of the at least some remaining media units.
8. The method as claimed in claim 7, wherein the intent probability distribution is a normal distribution and updating the intent probability distribution comprises determining parameters of the normal distribution from the plurality of subsampled sets of attribute values.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein each feature set defines a respective set of attribute values and selecting the next set of media units comprises for each attribute, computing a distance between the set of attribute values of one of the one or more media unit and respective sets of attribute values for a plurality of media units; computing a weighted combination of the distances for at least some of the attributes, wherein each distance is weighted by a respective attribute weight and the attribute weights are computed using the intent probability distribution; and using the weighted combination of the distances to select the next set of media units.
10. A method as claimed in claim 9, wherein computing the attribute weights comprises computing, for each attribute, a measure of information gain between a component of the intent probability distribution for the attribute after updating and a component of the intent probability distribution for the attribute before updating; and determining each attribute weight based on the respective measure of information.
11. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein selecting the next set of media units comprises selecting a media unit of the next set of media units based on similarity of the media unit to a sampled set of attribute values sampled from a sampling distribution.
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein each feature set defines a respective set of attribute values and wherein the media units are grouped into media unit groups corresponding to a respective range for each attribute value based on the respective sets of attribute values and selecting the next set of media units comprises: selecting a media unit group based on the sampled set of attribute values being within the respective range for each attribute value; and selecting a media unit from the media units in the selected media unit group.
13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the media units are grouped into media unit groups corresponding to a respective range for each attribute value based on the respective sets of attribute values for each of a plurality of levels, the size of the respective ranges increasing from one level to the next, and selecting the next set of media units comprises: at a first one of the levels, determining if a media unit group exist associated with a range encompassing the sampled set of attribute values; if the determination is negative, determining if a media unit group exist associated with a range encompassing the sampled set of attribute values at a second one of the levels, wherein the second one of the levels has larger ranges than the first one of the levels; and if the determination is positive, selecting a media unit from the media units in the media unit group associated with the range encompassing the sampled set of attribute values.
14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein selecting a media unit of the next set of media units based on similarity comprises computing a measure of similarity between the set of attribute values of the media unit and the sampled set of attribute values.
15. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein each feature set defines a respective set of parameters defining an attribute-representing probability distribution over attribute values.
16. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the selecting the next set of media units comprises selecting a media unit of the next set of media units based on values of the respective attribute-representing probability distribution at a plurality of sampled sets of attribute values sampled from a sampling distribution.
17. The method as claimed in claim 16, wherein the sampled set of attribute values is one of the plurality of subsampled sets of attribute values.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein one or more of the attributes are semantic attributes representative of semantic features of items represented by the media units.
19. A system comprising a communications interface and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to cause the system to implement the method of claim 16.
20. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the said operations are performed repeatedly.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more of the attribute values are derived from the neural activations of the hidden layer of the artificial neural network presented with an image that is associated with the media unit.
</claims>
</document>
