<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/14,G06K9/62,G06T11/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
COWBURN, PIERS
LI, DAVID
MÜLLER SANDVIK, ISAC ANDREAS
PAN, QI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71670459
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADDRESSABLE AUGMENTED-REALITY CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
An addressable media system for performing operations that include: accessing image data that depicts an object in an environment at a client device; causing display of a presentation of the image data within a graphical user interface at the client device; detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data based on at least a portion of the plurality of image features of the display of the object; identifying an object class based on at least the portion of the image features of the display of the object; receiving an input that selects the display of the object from the client device; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile in response to the input that selects the display of the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing image data that depicts an object in an environment at a client device, the client device associated with a user profile; causing display of a presentation of the image data within a graphical user interface (GUI) at the client device, the presentation of the image data including a display of the object at a position within the presentation of the image data, the display of the object comprising image features; detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data based on the image features of the display of the object; identifying an object class based on at least the image features of the display of the object responsive to the detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data; receiving an input that selects the display of the object from the client device; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile in response to the input that selects the display of the object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: causing display of a bounding box within the presentation of the image data based on the position of the display of the object in response to the detecting the display of the object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the bounding box comprises visual properties based on at least the object class of the object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile includes: associating the image features of the display of the object with the user profile within a database.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the client device is a first client device, the display of the object is a first display of the object, and the method further comprises: detecting a second display of the object at a second client device; identifying the object class of the object; retrieving an identifier associated with the user profile associated with the object class; and causing display of the identifier associated with the user profile at the second client device responsive to the detecting the second display of the object.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the client device is a first client device, the user profile is a first user profile, the display is a first display, the input is a first input, and the method further comprises: receiving a second input that selects a second display of the object from a second client device; and disassociating the object class from the first user profile; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with a second user profile in response to the second input.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile includes: associating the image features of the display of the object with the user profile within a database at a server.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory and comprising instructions that causes the system to perform operations comprising: accessing image data that depicts an object in an environment at a client device, the client device associated with a user profile; causing display of a presentation of the image data within a graphical user interface (GUI) at the client device, the presentation of the image data including a display of the object at a position within the presentation of the image data, the display of the object comprising image features; detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data based on the image features of the display of the object; identifying an object class based on at least the image features of the display of the object responsive to the detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data; receiving an input that selects the display of the object from the client device; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile in response to the input that selects the display of the object.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: causing display of a bounding box within the presentation of the image data based on the position of the display of the object in response to the detecting the display of the object.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the bounding box comprises visual properties based on at least the object class of the object.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile includes: associating the image features of the display of the object with the user profile within a database.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the client device is a first client device, the display of the object is a first display of the object, and the operations further comprise: detecting a second display of the object at a second client device; identifying the object class of the object; retrieving an identifier associated with the user profile associated with the object class; and causing display of the identifier associated with the user profile at the second client device responsive to the detecting the second display of the object.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the client device is a first client device, the user profile is a first user profile, the display is a first display, the input is a first input, and the operations further comprise: receiving a second input that selects a second display of the object from a second client device; and disassociating the object class from the first user profile; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with a second user profile in response to the second input.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile includes: associating the image features of the display of the object with the user profile within a database at a server.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: accessing image data that depicts an object in an environment at a client device, the client device associated with a user profile; causing display of a presentation of the image data within a graphical user interface (GUI) at the client device, the presentation of the image data including a display of the object at a position within the presentation of the image data, the display of the object comprising image features; detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data based on the image features of the display of the object; identifying an object class based on at least the image features of the display of the object responsive to the detecting the display of the object within the presentation of the image data; receiving an input that selects the display of the object from the client device; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile in response to the input that selects the display of the object.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: causing display of a bounding box within the presentation of the image data based on the position of the display of the object in response to the detecting the display of the object.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the bounding box comprises visual properties based on at least the object class of the object.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the associating the object class that corresponds with the object with the user profile includes: associating the image features of the display of the object with the user profile within a database.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the client device is a first client device, the display of the object is a first display of the object, and the operations further comprise: detecting a second display of the object at a second client device; identifying the object class of the object; retrieving an identifier associated with the user profile associated with the object class; and causing display of the identifier associated with the user profile at the second client device responsive to the detecting the second display of the object.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the client device is a first client device, the user profile is a first user profile, the display is a first display, the input is a first input, and the operations further comprise: receiving a second input that selects a second display of the object from a second client device; and disassociating the object class from the first user profile; and associating the object class that corresponds with the object with a second user profile in response to the second input.
</claims>
</document>
