<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/1171,A61B5/16,A61B5/18,A61M21/02,B60Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HYUNDAI MOTOR COMPANY
KIA MOTORS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JOONGKWAN
LEE, JINMO
YEE, KAANGDOK
YOU, JUNG KEUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403868
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle may include: a feedback device; a bio-signal sensor configured to measure a bio-signal of a user; and a controller operatively coupled to the feedback device and the bio-signal sensor, the controller including a memory configured to store at least one program instruction and processor configured to execute the at least one program instruction. The controller may be configured to: determine information characterizing a current emotional state of the user based on the bio-signal; calculate, based on a difference value between the current emotional state and a target emotional state, an operation ratio between a first mode for controlling operation of the feedback device to decrease a degree of excitability of the user and a second mode for controlling the operation of the feedback device to increase a degree of positivity of the user; and control the operation of the feedback device for a predetermined time based on the operation ratio.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle comprising: a feedback device; a bio-signal sensor configured to measure a bio-signal of a user; and a controller operatively coupled to the feedback device and the bio-signal sensor, the controller including a memory configured to store at least one program instruction and processor configured to execute the at least one program instruction, and the controller being configured to: determine information characterizing a current emotional state of the user based on the bio-signal; calculate, based on a difference value between the current emotional state and a target emotional state, an operation ratio between a first mode for controlling operation of the feedback device to decrease a degree of excitability of the user and a second mode for controlling the operation of the feedback device to increase a degree of positivity of the user; and control the operation of the feedback device for a predetermined time based on the operation ratio.
2. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control the operation of the feedback device, based on the operation ratio, such that the feedback device performs the first mode for a first time of the predetermined time and performs the second mode for a second time of the predetermined time, wherein the second time equals a difference between the predetermined time and the first time.
3. The vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to control the operation of the feedback device such that the first mode and the second mode are repeatedly alternately performed based on a predetermined number of mode switching times and a predetermined holding time for each mode.
4. The vehicle according to claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to: perform an operation through a neural network based on the current emotional state and the target emotional state; determine the number of mode switching times and the holding time for each mode corresponding to the current emotional state and the target emotional state based on information characterizing the operation performed through the neural network; and control the operation of the feedback device such that the first mode and the second mode are repeatedly alternately performed based on the determined number of mode switching times and the determined holding time for each mode.
5. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine the degree of excitability of the user and the degree of positivity of the user based on the current emotional state, to compare the degree of excitability of the user with the degree of positivity of the user, and to perform either the first mode or the second mode based on the comparison of the degree of excitability of the user with the degree of positivity of the user.
6. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to calculate a first difference value between the degree of excitability for the current emotional state and the degree of excitability for the target emotional state calculate, to calculate a second difference value between the degree of positivity for the current emotional state and the degree of positivity for the target emotional state calculate, and to calculate the operation ratio between the first mode and the second mode as equivalent to a ratio between the first difference value and the second difference value.
7. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the feedback device is disposed in the vehicle and comprises at least one of a speaker, a display, an air conditioner, and a vibration device installed in a seat
8. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to: extract an emotion factor that affects the current emotional state; in the first mode, control the operation of the feedback device causing an emotion factor to decrease according to the degree of excitability of the extracted emotion factor; and in the second mode, control the operation of the feedback device causing an emotion factor to increase according to the degree of positivity of the extracted emotion factor.
9. A method for controlling a vehicle, the vehicle including a feedback device, a bio-signal sensor configured to measure a bio-signal of a user, and a controller operatively coupled to the feedback device and the bio-signal sensor, the method comprising: determining, by the controller, information characterizing a current emotional state of the user based on the bio-signal; calculating, by the controller, based on a difference value between the current emotional state and a target emotional state, an operation ratio between a first mode for controlling the operation of the feedback device to decrease a degree of excitability of the user and a second mode for controlling the operation of the feedback device to increase a degree of positivity of the user; and controlling, by the controller, the operation of the feedback device for a predetermined time based on the operation ratio.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling of the feedback device comprises: controlling the operation of the feedback device, based on the operation ratio, such that the feedback device performs the first mode for a first time of the predetermined time and performs the second mode for a second time of the predetermined time, wherein the second time equals a difference between the predetermined time and the first time.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the controlling of the operation of the feedback device comprises: controlling the operation of the feedback device such that the first mode and the second mode are repeatedly alternately performed based on a predetermined number of mode switching times and a predetermined holding time for each mode.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the controlling of the operation of the feedback device comprises: performing an operation through a neural network based on the current emotional state and the target emotional state; determining the number of mode switching times and the holding time for each mode corresponding to the current emotional state and the target emotional state based on information characterizing the operation performed through the neural network; and controlling the operation of the feedback device such that the first mode and the second mode are repeatedly alternately performed based on the determined number of mode switching times and the determined holding time for each mode.
13. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling of the operation of the feedback device comprises: determine the degree of excitability of the user and the degree of positivity of the user based on the current emotional state; comparing the degree of excitability of the user with the degree of positivity of the user; and performing either the first mode or the second mode based on the comparison of the degree of excitability of the user with the degree of positivity of the user.
14. The method according to claim 9, wherein the calculating of the operation ratio comprises: calculating a first difference value between the degree of excitability for the current emotional state and the degree of excitability for the target emotional state calculate; calculating a second difference value between the degree of positivity for the current emotional state and the degree of positivity for the target emotional state calculate; and calculating the operation ratio between the first mode and the second mode as equivalent to a ratio between the first difference value and the second difference value.
15. The method according to claim 9, wherein the feedback device is disposed in the vehicle and comprises at least one of a speaker, a display, an air conditioner, and a vibration device installed in a seat.
16. The method according to claim 9, wherein the controlling of the operation of the feedback device comprises: extracting an emotion factor that affects the current emotional state; in the first mode, controlling the operation of the feedback device causing an emotion factor to decrease according to the degree of excitability of the extracted emotion factor; and in the second mode, controlling the operation fo the feedback device causing an emotion factor to increase according to the degree of positivity of the extracted emotion factor.
</claims>
</document>
