<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KPN INNOVATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NEUMANN, KENNETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69230350
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR GENERATING ALIMENTARY INSTRUCTION SETS BASED ON VIBRANT CONSTITUTIONAL GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating an alimentary instruction set identifying a list of supplements, comprising receiving information related to a biological extraction and physiological state of a user and generating a diagnostic output based upon the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user. The generating comprises identifying a condition of the user as a function of the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user and a first training set. Further, the generating includes identifying a supplement related to the identified condition of the user as a function of the identified condition of the user and a second training set. Further, the method includes generating, by an alimentary instruction set generator operating on a computing device, a supplement plan as a function of the diagnostic output, said supplement plan including the supplement related to the identified condition of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating an alimentary instruction set identifying a list of supplements, comprising: receiving, by a diagnostic engine operating on a computing device, information related to a biological extraction and physiological state of a user; generating, by the diagnostic engine operating on the computing device, a diagnostic output based upon the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user, wherein the generating comprises: identifying, by a machine learning module operating on the computing device, a condition of the user as a function of the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user and a first training set, said first training set including a plurality of data entries, each first data entry of the plurality of data entries including an element of physiological state data and a correlated first prognostic label; and identifying, by the machine learning module operating on the computing device, a supplement related to the identified condition of the user as a function of the identified condition of the user and a second training set, said second training set including a plurality of second data entries, each second data entry including a second prognostic label and a correlated ameliorative process label; and generating, by an alimentary instruction set generator operating on a computing device, a supplement plan as a function of the diagnostic output, said supplement plan including the supplement related to the identified condition of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the computing device, a physical performance instruction set to a server associated with a physical performance entity.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the physical performance instruction set identifies the supplement plan the and wherein the physical performance entity is configured to deliver said supplement plan to the user.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the alimentary instruction set generator operating on the computing device, data related to the supplement plan to a client device associated with the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the data related to the supplement plan is configured to render a visual representation of the supplement plan in a graphical user interface on the client device associated with the user.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the diagnostic engine operating on the computing device, a dietary preference of the user, wherein the supplement plan is generated further as a function of the dietary preference of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological extraction comprises a physical extraction from the user.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, via a plan generation module operating on the computing device, a comprehensive instruction set as a function of the diagnostic output, said comprehensive instruction set identifying the user's current prognostic status.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the comprehensive instruction set is generated further as a function of the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the supplement plan is generated further as a function of the comprehensive instruction set.
11. A system for generating an alimentary instruction set identifying a list of supplements, comprising: a computing device; a diagnostic engine operating on the computing device, wherein the diagnostic engine is configured to: receive information related to a biological extraction and physiological state of a user; generate a diagnostic output based upon the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user, wherein the generating comprises: identifying, by the machine learning module operating on the computing device, a condition of the user as a function of the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user and a first training set, said first training set including a plurality of data entries, each first data entry of the plurality of data entries including an element of physiological state data and a correlated first prognostic label; and identifying, by the machine learning module operating on the computing device, a supplement related to the identified condition of the user as a function of the identified condition of the user and a second training set, said second training set including a plurality of second data entries, each second data entry including a second prognostic label and a correlated ameliorative process label; and an alimentary instruction set generator operating on a computing device, wherein the alimentary instruction set is configured to: generate a supplement plan as a function of the diagnostic output, said supplement plan including the supplement related to the identified condition of the user.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the computing device is configured to: transmit a physical performance instruction set to a server associated with a physical performance entity.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the physical performance instruction set identifies the supplement plan and wherein the physical performance entity is configured to deliver the supplement plan to the user.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the alimentary instruction set generator is further configured to: transmit data related to the supplement plan to a client device associated with the user.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the data related to the supplement plan is configured to render a visual representation of the supplement plan in a graphical user interface on the client device associated with the user.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the diagnostic engine is further configured to receive a dietary preference of the user and wherein the alimentary instruction set generator is further configured to generate the supplement plan as a function of the dietary preference of the user.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the biological extraction comprises a physical extraction from the user.
18. The system of claim 11, further comprising a plan generation module operating on the computing device, the plan generation module configured to: generate a comprehensive instruction set as a function of the diagnostic output, said comprehensive instruction set identifying the user's current prognostic status.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the plan generation module is further configured to generate the comprehensive instruction set as a function of the information related to the biological extraction and physiological state of the user.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the alimentary instruction set generator is further configured to generate the supplement plan as a function of the comprehensive instruction set.
</claims>
</document>
