<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/268,H04N5/60,H04N7/01,H04N7/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUIBI HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNES, BLAKE
BURFITT, JOSEPH
POST, JR., ROBERT A.
SMITH, CLIFTON
BUEHL, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69230265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDIA CONTENT PRESENTATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method of presenting media content is disclosed. A plurality of assets is received at a mobile device comprising a display and an orientation sensor. The plurality of assets comprises a first video asset associated with a first aspect ratio, and a second video asset associated with a second aspect ratio, different from the first aspect ratio. A desired aspect ratio is determined based on an output of the orientation sensor. In accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, the first video asset is selected. In accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, the second video asset is selected. The selected video is presented at the desired aspect ratio via the display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a first time, at a device comprising a display and an orientation sensor, a plurality of assets comprising: a first video asset associated with a first aspect ratio; and a second video asset associated with a second aspect ratio, different from the first aspect ratio; determining, at a second time, based on an output of the orientation sensor, a desired aspect ratio; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first video asset; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second video asset; and presenting, via the display, the selected video asset at the desired aspect ratio.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the first audio asset; and the method further comprises presenting the first audio asset via the speaker, concurrently with presenting the selected video asset.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset and a second audio asset, different from the first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the second audio asset; and the method further comprises: in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first audio asset; in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second audio asset; and presenting the selected audio asset via the speaker, concurrent with presenting the selected video asset.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the plurality of assets comprises receiving a first data stream comprising the first video asset and the second video asset.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first data stream comprises a plurality of frames of the first video asset interlaced with a plurality of frames of the second video asset.
6. An electronic device comprising: a display; an orientation sensor; one or more processors configured to perform a method comprising: receiving, at a first time, a plurality of assets comprising: a first video asset associated with a first aspect ratio; and a second video asset associated with a second aspect ratio, different from the first aspect ratio; determining, at a second time, based on an output of the orientation sensor, a desired aspect ratio; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first video asset; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second video asset; and presenting, via the display, the selected video asset at the desired aspect ratio.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein: the electronic device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the first audio asset; and the method further comprises presenting the first audio asset via the speaker, concurrently with presenting the selected video asset.
8. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein: the electronic device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset and a second audio asset, different from the first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the second audio asset; and the method further comprises: in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first audio asset; in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second audio asset; and presenting the selected audio asset via the speaker, concurrent with presenting the selected video asset.
9. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein receiving the plurality of assets comprises receiving a first data stream comprising the first video asset and the second video asset.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the first data stream comprises a plurality of frames of the first video asset interlaced with a plurality of frames of the second video asset.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed via one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: receiving, at a first time, at a device comprising a display and an orientation sensor, a plurality of assets comprising: a first video asset associated with a first aspect ratio; and a second video asset associated with a second aspect ratio, different from the first aspect ratio; determining, at a second time, based on an output of the orientation sensor, a desired aspect ratio; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first video asset; in accordance with a determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second video asset; and presenting, via the display, the selected video asset at the desired aspect ratio.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the first audio asset; and the method further comprises presenting the first audio asset via the speaker, concurrently with presenting the selected video asset.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein: the device further comprises a speaker; the plurality of assets further comprises a first audio asset and a second audio asset, different from the first audio asset; the first video asset is associated with the first audio asset; the second video asset is associated with the second audio asset; and the method further comprises: in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the first aspect ratio than to the second aspect ratio, selecting the first audio asset; in accordance with the determination that the desired aspect ratio is closer to the second aspect ratio than to the first aspect ratio, selecting the second audio asset; and presenting the selected audio asset via the speaker, concurrent with presenting the selected video asset.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein receiving the plurality of assets comprises receiving a first data stream comprising the first video asset and the second video asset.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the first data stream comprises a plurality of frames of the first video asset interlaced with a plurality of frames of the second video asset.
</claims>
</document>
