<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F119/12,G06F30/327,G06F30/3315,G06F30/394,G06F30/396,G06F30/398,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHUANG, YI-LIN
CHEN, YIN-AN
HUANG, SZU-JU
HONG, AMOS
Lin, Henry
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69947584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Static voltage drop (SIR) violation prediction systems and methods
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for predicting static voltage (SIR) drop violations in a clock-tree synthesis (CTS) layout before routing is performed on the CTS layout. A static voltage (SIR) drop violation prediction system includes SIR drop violation prediction circuitry. The SIR drop violation prediction circuitry receives CTS data associated with a CTS layout. The SIR drop violation prediction circuitry inspects the CTS layout data associated with the CTS layout, and the CTS layout data may include data associated with a plurality of regions of the CTS layout, which may be inspected on a region-by-region basis. The SIR drop violation prediction circuitry predicts whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to a subsequent routing of the CTS layout.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A static voltage (SIR) drop violation prediction system, comprising: SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, which, when in use: receives clock-tree synthesis (CTS) layout data associated with a CTS layout; inspects the CTS layout data associated with the CTS layout; and predicts whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a CTS database which stores the CTS layout data associated with the CTS layout.
3. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a processed region database which stores information associated with a plurality of CTS regions which exhibit SIR drop violations, wherein the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, in use, predicts whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout based at least in part on the information associated with the plurality of CTS regions which exhibit SIR drop violations.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising: a SIR drop database which stores information associating SIR drop violations with at least one of a CTS layout or a CTS layout region; and machine learning circuitry communicatively coupled to the SIR drop database, the machine learning circuitry, when in use, generates the information associated with the plurality of CTS patterns which exhibit SIR drop violations based on the information stored in the SIR drop database.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, when in use: generates a SIR drop violation map indicating locations of predicted SIR drop violations in the CTS layout.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a model bank which stores a plurality of machine learning models, machine learning circuitry communicatively coupled to the model bank, the machine learning circuitry, when in use: generates a first stage ensemble by selecting a first portion of the plurality of machine learning models based on a first similarity comparison between a shape and orientation of a feature space of the CTS layout and shapes and orientations of feature spaces of the plurality of machine learning models; and generates a second stage ensemble by selecting a second portion of the plurality of machine learning models based on a second similarity comparison between the orientation of the feature space of the CTS layout and orientation of feature spaces of the first portion of the plurality of machine learning models of the first stage ensemble.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, when in use, generates a SIR drop map based on a comparison of the CTS layout with the second stage ensemble, the SIR drop map indicating predicted SIR drop values in the CTS layout.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, when in use, compares the predicted SIR drop values with a threshold SIR drop value, and predicts whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout based on the comparison of the predicted SIR drop values with the threshold SIR drop value.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: clock tree cell adjustment circuitry, which, when in use, increases a spacing between clock cells of a region of the CTS layout, in response to the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry predicting that one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the region of the CTS layout due to the routing of the CTS layout.
10. A method, comprising: receiving, by static voltage (SIR) drop violation circuitry, clock-tree synthesis (CTS) layout data associated with a CTS layout of a semiconductor device; inspecting, by the SIR drop violation circuitry, the CTS layout data associated with the CTS layout; predicting, by the SIR drop violation circuitry, whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout; and routing the CTS layout in response to predicting that no SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: generating a SIR drop violation map indicating locations of predicted SIR drop violations in the CTS layout.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the predicting whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout includes: generating a SIR drop map indicating predicted SIR drop values in the CTS layout; comparing the predicted SIR drop values with a threshold SIR drop value; and predicting that one or more SIR drop violations would be present in response to one or more of the predicted SIR drop values exceeding the threshold SIR drop value.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: selecting a first portion of a plurality of machine learning models based on a first similarity comparison between a shape and orientation of a feature space of the CTS layout and shapes and orientations of feature spaces of the plurality of machine learning models; selecting a second portion of the plurality of machine learning models based on a second similarity comparison between the orientation of the feature space of the CTS layout and orientation of feature spaces of the first portion of the plurality of machine learning models; and generating a SIR drop map based on a comparison of the CTS layout with the selected second portion of the plurality of machine learning models, the SIR drop map indicating predicted SIR drop values in the CTS layout.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the predicting whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout includes: comparing the predicted SIR drop values with a threshold SIR drop value; and predicting that one or more SIR drop violations would be present in response to one or more of the predicted SIR drop values exceeding the threshold SIR drop value.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: adjusting the CTS layout by increasing a spacing between clock cells of at least one region of the CTS layout, in response to the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry predicting that one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the at least one region of the CTS layout due to routing of the CTS layout.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: routing the adjusted CTS layout.
17. A method, comprising: training a plurality of machine learning models with information indicative of static voltage (SIR) drop violations in a plurality of electronic device designs; storing the plurality of machine learning models in a database; receiving, by SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, clock-tree synthesis (CTS) data associated with a CTS layout; comparing the CTS data associated with the CTS layout with the plurality of machine learning models stored in the database; and predicting, by the SIR drop violation prediction circuitry, whether one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout due to a subsequent routing of the CTS layout, based on the comparing the CTS data associated with the CTS layout with the plurality of machine learning models.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the training the machine learning circuitry includes extracting feature information associated with the plurality of electronic device designs.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: extracting feature information associated with the CTS layout for each of a plurality of regions of the CTS layout, wherein the comparing the CTS data associated with the CTS layout with the plurality of machine learning models stored in the database includes comparing the extracted feature information associated with the CTS layout with the extracted feature information associated with the plurality of electronic device designs.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: adjusting the CTS layout by increasing a spacing between clock cells of the CTS layout, in response to predicting that one or more SIR drop violations would be present in the CTS layout; and routing the adjusted CTS layout.
</claims>
</document>
