<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/14,G01N21/25,G01N21/29,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OFFICE NATIONAL D'ETUDES ET DE RECHERCHES AEROSPATIALES (ONERA)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HADDAD, Zehira
CHAN-HON-TONG, Adrien
HERBIN, Stéphane
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63014596
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETECTION OF CELLS IN A CYTOLOGICAL SAMPLE HAVING AT LEAST ONE ANOMALY
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method for detecting cells having at least one anomaly in a cytological sample on the basis of at least one first digitised digitised-electron-microscopy image of the sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detection of cells in a cytological sample having at least one anomaly based on at least one first digitized electron microscope image (1) of the sample, the method is done by means of a computer-implemented processing module, the method comprises a step of processing the first image (110), comprising the following substeps: starting from the first image (1), detect each element (4) present in the sample (step 112) and then filter each element (4) selected from at least one isolated cell (10) or one cell group (14), by means of a colorimetric detection; starting from each detected group of cells (14), individualize at least one cell with the nucleus thereof, by means of at least one segmentation method based on detection of the contours in the cell group (14) (step 116); the method further comprises a step of cellular anomaly detection (step 140), comprising the following substeps: for each cell isolated (10) or individualized in the preceding step, calculate data for two characteristics of distinct anomalies called "expert characteristics of anomaly," and determine whether said cell has at least one anomaly (step 144), by comparing these calculated data with reference data (step 142); and then count the total number of cells in the sample having at least one anomaly (step 146); the method further comprises a first step of characterization of the sample (step 150) according to an anomaly level for the sample, comprising the following substeps: compare the total number of cells having at least one anomaly to a threshold value for the anomaly level, preferably a threshold value equal to at least three cells each having at least one anomaly; if the total number of cells having at least one anomaly is less than the threshold value for the anomaly level, classify the sample in a class representative of a sample with a zero anomaly level (152); if the total number of cells having at least one anomaly is over the threshold value for the anomaly level, classify the sample in a class representative of a sample with a proven anomaly level (154); wherein the method further comprises a step of typological selection (step 130), comprising the following substeps: starting from the first digitized image (1) of the sample, measuring the size of the cells, and then classifying the cells according to their size (step 132); matching each class of measured cells with a corresponding cell type, and then selecting at least one selected cell type, such as the urothelial cell type (step 134).
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein least one of the expert characteristics of anomaly is a surface area ratio of the nucleus in the cell or an irregularity of the nucleus or a mottled colorimetry or a hyper-colorimetry of the nucleus.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the expert characteristics of anomaly is an irregularity of the nucleus, where the calculation of said irregularity of the nucleus is a deviation calculation corresponding to the comparison between each analyzed cell nucleus and a nucleus type for a cell called "reference," this deviation calculation is selected from the following list: a surface difference, a perimeter difference, a difference of the convexity of the nucleus, a barycenter difference, a difference between a length of the contour of each nucleus detected, a difference of irregularity of a contour of the nucleus, a difference of the number of pixels in each nucleus and a difference of eccentricity of the nucleus in the cell.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising a second step of characterization of the sample (step 160) according to an anomaly level of the cells from the sample, further comprising the following substeps: starting from a second digitized fluorescence image (2) of the sample, selecting all the cells of a selected cell type according to their location in the sample previously predefined (step 134) in the first digitized image (1) (step 162); detecting the presence of a fluorescence halo around each previously selected cell; if a fluorescence halo is detected, classify the sample in a class representative of a sample with a low cellular anomaly level (168).
5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising a step of recommendation of usability (step 120) of the cytological sample according to a number of cells comprising a nucleus and according to a minimum usability threshold value.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the method, by means of the processing module, combines all resulting data and classifies the cytological sample analyzed based on the first image (1) and the second image (2), into one of three classes associated with a cellular anomaly level of the sample: zero, low or high.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein said cytological sample is a urinary sample from spontaneous urination.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the comparing substep, wherein the threshold value is equal to at least three cells each having at least one anomaly.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein for the matching substep the selected cell type is the urothelial cell type.
10. The method according to claim 2, wherein at least one of the expert characteristics of anomaly is an irregularity of the nucleus, where the calculation of said irregularity of the nucleus is a deviation calculation corresponding to the comparison between each analyzed cell nucleus and a nucleus type for a cell called "reference," this deviation calculation is selected from the following list: a surface difference, a perimeter difference, a difference of the convexity of the nucleus, a barycenter difference, a difference between a length of the contour of each nucleus detected, a difference of irregularity of a contour of the nucleus, a difference of the number of pixels in each nucleus and a difference of eccentricity of the nucleus in the cell.
11. The method of claim 4, wherein the selected cell type is urothelial, the detecting step includes measuring the fluorescence level, and performing the classifying step if a measured level of fluorescence is over a minimum reference level of fluorescence.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein measuring the fluorescence level comprises measuring a level of spread of the fluorescence, and performing the classifying step if a measured spreading level of the fluorescence is over a minimum spreading level of the fluorescence.
13. The method according to claim 2, further comprising a second step of characterization of the sample (step 160) according to an anomaly level of the cells from the sample, further comprising the following substeps: starting from a second digitized fluorescence image (2) of the sample, selecting all the cells of a selected cell type according to their location in the sample previously predefined (step 134) in the first digitized image (1) (step 162); detecting the presence of a fluorescence halo around each previously selected cell; if a fluorescence halo is detected, classify the sample in a class representative of a sample with a low cellular anomaly level (168).
14. The method according to claim 3, further comprising a second step of characterization of the sample (step 160) according to an anomaly level of the cells from the sample, further comprising the following substeps: starting from a second digitized fluorescence image (2) of the sample, selecting all the cells of a selected cell type according to their location in the sample previously predefined (step 134) in the first digitized image (1) (step 162); detecting the presence of a fluorescence halo around each previously selected cell; if a fluorescence halo is detected, classify the sample in a class representative of a sample with a low cellular anomaly level (168).
15. The method of claim 5, wherein the minimum usability threshold value is equal to at least seven cells detected in the first image comprising a nucleus (1).
16. The method according to claim 2, further comprising a step of recommendation of usability (step 120) of the cytological sample according to a number of cells comprising a nucleus and according to a minimum usability threshold value.
17. The method according to claim 3, further comprising a step of recommendation of usability (step 120) of the cytological sample according to a number of cells comprising a nucleus and according to a minimum usability threshold value.
18. The method according to claim 4, further comprising a step of recommendation of usability (step 120) of the cytological sample according to a number of cells comprising a nucleus and according to a minimum usability threshold value.
19. The method according to claim 2, wherein said cytological sample is a urinary sample from spontaneous urination.
20. The method according to claim 3, wherein said cytological sample is a urinary sample from spontaneous urination.
</claims>
</document>
