<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01G31/04,A01M7/00,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SABA, SIMON E.
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABA, SIMON E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONFIGURABLE CONTROLLED-ENVIRONMENT AGRICULTURE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus, system, and method for controlled-environment agriculture, including a closed-loop conveyor for transporting at least one container housing one or more plants to static or locally moveable service station(s) delivering at least one service in a sequential manner to plants on the conveyor and in parallel with other service stations for other services. A transition section conveys plants between an illuminated zone and a dark zone on FIFO basis. The conveyor cycle is computer programmable on a plant-by-plant basis for i) service station frequency and duration; and ii) illuminated zone/dark zone duty cycles for desired growth pattern and conveyor path routing based on sensor input to database. Different plant types at different growth stages are 'interleaved' on a same compact system (sensors, conveyor, and service stations) using artificial intelligence, deep learning, and computer vision for wide plant variety inventory management and programmed selective harvesting.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/We claim:
1. A controlled-environment agriculture system comprising: a mover for transporting at least one container housing one or more plants; at least one service station for delivering at least one service to each of the one or more plants in the at least one container; and wherein: the at least one service delivered by the at least one service station is provided in at least one of i) a sequential manner to another container disposed on the mover and ii) a parallel manner with at least one other service station disposed on the mover.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a transition section coupled to the mover, wherein the transition section separates an illuminated zone from a dark zone.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein: the transition section prevents all effective light from passing therethrough that would otherwise disturb a growing cycle of a given type of the one or more plants.
4. The system of claim 1 further comprising: wherein the at least one service station comprises at least one of: a watering service station, a photo service station, a measuring service station, a chemical application service system, a fertilizer service station, a pruning service station, a weighing service station, a gas analyzer service station, a gas spectroscopy service station, a gender-sensing service station, a seed-detection service station, a fruit detection service station, an elasticity testing service station, a computer-vision service station, an extraction service station, and a harvesting service station.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the station is at least one of a static and a locally-moveable fixture; and the at least one container passes through the at least one service station to receive the at least one service provided therein.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the mover runs a variable duty cycle for at least one of the one or more plants disposed in the illuminated zone.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein: the mover runs continuously for at least one of the one or more plants disposed in the illuminated zone and in the dark zone.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein: the dark zone is a blackout zone with less than 5% phyto-detectable light.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein: the transition section is a door system that transports plant containers from the illuminated zone to the dark zone and that prevents more than 5% light passage from the illuminated zone to the dark zone.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein: a continuous conveyor cycle is programmable to represent any duty cycle of time for exposing the plant containers to light and darkness for a desired growth pattern.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein: the mover is a closed loop conveyor with a complete cycle to represent at least a pattern of at least one light cycle and one dark cycle for plant growth.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein: the duration of time for the complete cycle changes over a growth lifespan of a given plant.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein: the complete cycle is a programmable length of time, greater than or less than a 24-hour day.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein the mover is programmable to represent different light and dark duty cycles for different seasons of a year.
15. The system of claim 11 wherein: an illuminated zone is illuminated for a continuous operation; a dark zone is darkened for a continuous operation; and the continuous operation is at least one of a nursery growth stage, a maturation growth stage, and a harvesting growth stage.
16. The system of claim 11 further comprising: a plurality of service stations for delivering at least one service each; and wherein: each of the plurality of stations operates in parallel with each other.
17. The system of claim 11 wherein: the duty cycle is one of a synchronous, asynchronous, cyclic, continuous, and intermittent duty cycle.
18. The system of claim 11 wherein: the plants move between the illuminated and the dark zones on a first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis
19. The system of claim 1 further comprising: at least one sensor coupled to the at least one service station; and wherein: the at least one sensor senses at least one of a unique identifier of the one or more plants, a visual condition of the one or more plants, a weight of the one or more plants, an elasticity of the one or more plants, a health condition of the one or more plants, a chemical effusion of the one or more plants, a reflectivity of the one or more plants.
20. The system of claim 19 further comprising: a database memory to receive the input from the one or more sensors from at least one of the one or more plants; and a processor to instruct the at least one of the service stations to deliver a plant-specific service depending upon data from the sensors.
21. The system of claim 1 wherein: the service station is programmable on a plant-by-plant basis.
22. A method of growing plants in an agricultural-growing system, the method comprising: transporting at least one container for housing one or more plants along a mover; delivering at least one service to each of the one or more plants in the at least one container via at least one service station and wherein: the service delivered by the at least one service station is provided in at least one of i) a sequential manner to another container disposed on the mover and ii) a parallel manner with at least one other service station disposed on the mover.
23. The method of claim 22 further comprising: transferring the one or more plants between an illuminated zone and a dark zone via a transition section that separates the illuminated zone from the dark zone.
24. The method of claim 22 further comprising: sensing data related to the at least one of the one or more plants via at least one sensor coupled to the at least one service station; and wherein: the at least one sensor senses at least one of a unique identifier of the one or more plants, a visual condition of the one or more plants, a weight of the one or more plants, an elasticity of the one or more plants, a health of the one or more plants, a chemical effusion of the one or more plants, a reflectivity of the one or more plants.
25. The method of claim 24 further comprising: recording data from the at least one sensor based on the unique identifier of each of the one or more plants into a database memory; and instructing at least one of the service stations to deliver a plant-specific service for each of the one or more plants depending upon data received from the sensors and depending upon the unique identifier of each of the one or more plants.
26. An agricultural plant-growing system comprising: means for transporting at least one container for housing one or more plants; means for delivering at least one service to each of the one or more plants in the at least one container; and wherein: the at least one service delivered by the at least one service station is provided in at least one of i) a sequential manner to another container disposed on the mover and ii) a parallel manner with at least one other service station disposed on the mover.
</claims>
</document>
