<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/24,A61B5/00,A61B6/00,A61B6/03,A61B6/14,A61C13/34,A61C7/00,A61C9/00,G06T7/33,G06T7/55,G06T7/579
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOPELMAN, AVI
LEVIN, ADI
ANUFRIENKO, MARIA
SABINA, MICHAEL
Minchenkov, Mikhail
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53276916
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CARIES DETECTION USING INTRAORAL SCAN DATA
</title>

<abstract>
In an implementation, a processing device receives first intraoral scan data generated at a first time and analyzes the first intraoral scan data to determine a first representation of a caries from the first intraoral scan data. The processing device receives second intraoral scan data generated at a second time and analyzes the second intraoral scan data to determine a second representation of the caries from the second intraoral scan data. The processing device compares the second representation of the caries to the first representation of the caries and tracks the caries over time based on a difference between the second representation of the caries and the first representation of the caries.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations for a method of caries detection, the operations comprising: receiving first intraoral scan data generated at a first time; analyzing the first intraoral scan data to determine a first representation of a caries from the first intraoral scan data; receiving second intraoral scan data generated at a second time; analyzing the second intraoral scan data to determine a second representation of the caries from the second intraoral scan data; comparing the second representation of the caries to the first representation of the caries; and tracking the caries over time based on a difference between the second representation of the caries and the first representation of the caries.
2. The computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a tooth represented in the first intraoral scan data; identifying at least one of a first spot or a first lacuna on the tooth from the first intraoral scan data; determining that at least one of the first spot or the first lacuna is the first representation of the caries; identifying the tooth represented in the second intraoral scan data; identifying at least one of a second spot or a second lacuna on the tooth from the second intraoral scan data; and determining that at least one of the second spot or the second lacuna is the second representation of the caries.
3. The computer readable medium of claim 2, wherein identifying at least one of the first spot or the first lacuna on the tooth from the first intraoral scan data and determining that at least one of the first spot or the first lacuna is the first representation of the caries is performed via shape recognition.
4. The computer readable medium of claim 1, the operations further comprising: determining a shape of an intraoral area of interest representing the caries; and generating a contour of the shape of the intraoral area of interest representing the caries.
5. The computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising: identifying the caries via the application of machine learning, wherein at least one of pooled patient data or pedagogical patient data including depictions of caries and corresponding indications thereof is employed to identify the caries.
6. The computer readable medium of claim 1, the operations further comprising: generating a first virtual three-dimensional (3D) model comprising one or more teeth of a patient using the first intraoral scan data, wherein analyzing the first intraoral scan data to determine the first representation of the caries from the first intraoral scan data comprises analyzing the first virtual 3D model generated using the first intraoral scan data, and wherein the first representation of the caries is identified on the first virtual 3D model; and generating a second virtual 3D model comprising the one or more teeth of the patient using the second intraoral scan data, wherein analyzing the second intraoral scan data to determine the second representation of the caries from the second intraoral scan data comprises analyzing the second virtual 3D model generated using the second intraoral scan data, and wherein the second representation of the caries is identified on the second virtual 3D model.
7. The computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein: comparing the second representation of the caries to the first representation of the caries comprises comparing the second virtual 3D model to the first virtual 3D model; and comparing the second virtual 3D model to the first virtual 3D model comprises determining an alignment between the first virtual 3D model and the second virtual 3D model based on geometric features shared by the first virtual 3D model and the second virtual 3D model.
8. The computer readable medium of claim 1, the operations further comprising: generating a virtual three-dimensional (3D) model comprising one or more teeth of a patient using at least one of the first intraoral scan data or the second intraoral scan data; determining an intraoral area of interest comprising the caries; and generating an indicator of the intraoral area of interest comprising the caries, wherein the indicator comprises a flag that points to the intraoral area of interest on the virtual 3D model, wherein the intraoral area of interest is hidden in one or more views of the virtual 3D model, and wherein the flag is visible in the one or more views.
9. The computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein determining the intraoral area of interest comprises: identifying a plurality of voxels in the virtual 3D model that satisfy a first criterion; determining a subset of the plurality of voxels that are proximate to one another; and grouping the subset of the plurality of voxels into a volume.
10. The computer readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising: determining an intraoral area of interest comprising the caries; and determining an importance rank for the intraoral area of interest based at least in part on a size of the caries.
11. A computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations for a method of caries detection, the operations comprising: receiving first intraoral scan data generated at a first time; receiving second intraoral scan data generated at a second time; comparing the second intraoral scan data to the first intraoral scan data; determining an intraoral area of interest representative of a caries that has developed on a tooth between the first time and the second time based on a result of the comparing; and outputting an indication of the intraoral area of interest representative of the caries on the tooth.
12. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: analyzing the first intraoral scan data to determine a first representation of the tooth that lacks a caries; and analyzing the second intraoral scan data to determine a second representation of the tooth that includes the caries.
13. The computer readable medium of claim 12, the operations further comprising: identifying at least one of a spot or a lacuna on the tooth from the second intraoral scan data; and determining that at least one of the spot or the lacuna is a depiction of the caries.
14. The computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein identifying at least one of the spot or the lacuna on the tooth and determining that at least one of the spot or the lacuna is the depiction of the caries is performed via shape recognition.
15. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: determining a shape of the intraoral area of interest representative of the caries; and generating a contour of the shape of the intraoral area of interest representative of the caries.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: generating a first virtual three-dimensional (3D) model comprising one or more teeth of a patient using the first intraoral scan data; and generating a second virtual 3D model comprising the one or more teeth of the patient using the second intraoral scan data; wherein comparing the second intraoral scan data to the first intraoral scan data comprises comparing the second virtual 3D model to the first virtual 3D model.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 16, the operations further comprising: determining, as a result of the comparing, a first difference between the first virtual 3D model and the second virtual 3D model at a first dental site comprising a first tooth of the one or more teeth; and determining that the first difference is indicative of the caries.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the operation further comprising: determining, as a result of the comparing, a first difference between the second intraoral scan data and the first intraoral scan data at a first dental site comprising a first tooth; and determining that the first difference is indicative of the caries.
19. The computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: generating a virtual three-dimensional (3D) model comprising one or more teeth of a patient using at least one of the first intraoral scan data or the second intraoral scan data; wherein the indication comprises a flag that points to the intraoral area of interest on the virtual 3D model, wherein the intraoral area of interest is hidden in one or more views of the virtual 3D model, and wherein the flag is visible in the one or more views.
20. A system comprising: a memory; and a processing device operatively coupled to the memory, the processing device to: receive first intraoral scan data of a dental site generated at a first time; receive second intraoral scan data of the dental site generated at a second time; and track a caries on the dental site over time based on a difference between a first representation of the caries from the first intraoral scan data and a second representation of the caries from the second intraoral scan data.
</claims>
</document>
