<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06F7/483,G06F7/52,G06F7/544,G06N3/063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FORIN, ALESSANDRO
BITTNER, RAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62243083
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLOCK FLOATING POINT FOR NEURAL NETWORK IMPLEMENTATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods are disclosed for performing block floating-point (BFP) operations, including in implementations of neural networks. All or a portion of one or more matrices or vectors can share one or more common exponents. Techniques are disclosed for selecting the shared common exponents. In some examples of the disclosed technology, a method includes producing BFP representations of matrices or vectors, at least two elements of the respective matrices or vectors sharing a common exponent, performing a mathematical operation on two or more of the plurality of matrices or vectors, and producing an output matrix or vector. Based on the output matrix or vector, one or more updated common exponents are selected, and an updated matrix or vector is produced having some elements that share the updated common exponents.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method, comprising: producing a block floating-point (BFP) representation of a plurality of matrices or vectors, at least two elements of the respective matrices or vectors sharing a common exponent; performing a mathematical operation on two or more of the plurality of matrices or vectors, producing an output matrix or vector; based on the output matrix or vector, selecting an updated common exponent for at least two or more elements of the output matrix or vector; and producing a BFP representation of an updated matrix or vector, at least two elements of the updated matrix or vector sharing a common exponent.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of matrices or vectors comprises an array of signed or unsigned mantissas.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the mathematical operation comprises: performing operations on one or more mantissas and/or exponents for a first matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors in combination with performing operations on one or more mantissas and/or exponents for a second matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the mathematical operation comprises: performing a systolic array matrix multiplication for mantissas stored in a first matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors by mantissas stored in a second matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the mathematical operation comprises: adding a bias vector to a product of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the mathematical operation comprises: performing an additional function to a product of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the mathematical operation on the two or more of the plurality of matrices or vectors comprises: performing matrix multiplication and adding a first common exponent for a first matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors to a second common exponent for a second matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors; performing matrix division and subtracting a first common exponent for a first matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors from a second common exponent for a second matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors; or performing matrix addition or subtraction and shifting a mantissa of at least one matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the updated common exponent comprises computing a mean, standard deviation, and/or variance for a portion but not all output element values computed for the output matrix or vector.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the common exponent is applied for some but not all values in a respective matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating node values for a neural network with element values produced by the performing the mathematical operation.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one or more of the following: the mathematical operation is performed using means for matrix multiplication; the selecting the updated common exponent is performed using means for common exponent updating; or the producing the BFP representation of the updated matrix or vector is performed using means for producing a BFP representation of a matrix or vector.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: programming a reconfigurable logic device and/or a digital signal processing component to perform one or more of the recited method acts.
13. One or more computer readable storage devices or memory storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: performing a mathematical operation on two or more of a plurality of matrices or vectors, producing an block-floating point representation (BFP) output matrix or vector, at least two mantissas of the respective matrices or vectors sharing a common exponent; and selecting an updated common exponent for two or more values of the output matrix or vector.
14. The computer readable storage devices or memory of claim 13, wherein the selecting the updated common exponent comprises: determining a mean and standard deviation for absolute values of the output matrix or vector.
15. The computer readable storage devices or memory of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: selecting the common exponent based on a confidence interval for values of the output matrix or vector.
16. The computer readable storage devices or memory of claim 13, wherein the selecting the updated common exponent is based on a predefined number of previous output element values computed for the output matrix or vector.
17. The computer readable storage devices or memory of claim 13, wherein the common exponent is applied for some but not all values in a respective matrix or vector of the plurality of matrices or vectors.
18. The computer readable storage devices or memory of claim 13, wherein the selecting the updated common exponent comprises: assessing error introduced by the selected updated common exponent for the output matrix vector.
19. A system comprising: a general-purpose processing unit and memory configured to control operation of a neural network; and one or more programmable logic devices comprising the neural network, a plurality of nodes of the neural network being implemented with the programmable logic devices by performing operations comprising: performing a mathematical operation on two or more of a plurality of matrices or vectors, producing an output matrix or vector; based on the output matrix or vector, selecting an updated common exponent; and producing a BFP representation of an updated matrix or vector, at least two elements of the updated matrix or vector sharing a common exponent.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the operations performed by the programmable logic devices further comprise: storing mantissas and/or exponents for a series of the output matrix or vector in a memory; wherein the selecting the updated common exponents is based on the mantissas and/or exponents stored in the memory; and wherein the memory is one of the following: an addressable memory, a register file, a block random access memory (RAM), a FIFO buffer, or a shift register.
</claims>
</document>
