<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G01C21/34,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q20/20,G08G1/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SESHADRI, MADHAVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68466396
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System, Method, and Computer Program Product for Machine-Learning-Based Traffic Prediction
</title>

<abstract>
Described are a system, method, and computer program product for machine-learning-based traffic prediction. The method includes receiving historic transaction data including a plurality of transactions. The method also includes generating, using a machine-learning classification model, a transportation categorization for at least one consumer. The method further includes receiving at least one message associated with at least one transaction, identifying at least one geographic node of activity in the region, and generating an estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity. The method further includes comparing the estimate of traffic intensity to a threshold of traffic intensity and, in response to determining that the estimate of traffic intensity satisfies the threshold: generating a communication configured to cause at least one navigation device to modify a navigation route; and communicating the communication to the at least one navigation device.
</abstract>

<claims>
The disclosure Claimed is:
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, with at least one processor, at least one message associated with at least one transaction between at least one consumer and at least one point-of-sale terminal in a region; identifying, with at least one processor and based on the at least one message, at least one geographic node of activity in the region comprising the at least one point-of-sale terminal; generating, with at least one processor and based at least partially on a transportation categorization of the at least one consumer, an estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity; comparing, with at least one processor, the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity to a threshold of traffic intensity; in response to determining that the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity satisfies the threshold, generating, with at least one processor, a communication to at least one navigation device configured to cause the at least one navigation device to modify a navigation route; and communicating, with at least one processor, the communication to the at least one navigation device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, with at least one processor, historic transaction data comprising a plurality of transactions by the at least one consumer; and generating, with at least one processor and using a machine-learning classification model, based at least partially on at least one type of transaction of the historic transaction data, the transportation categorization for the at least one consumer representative of a mode of transportation to be taken by the at least one consumer.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the region comprises at least one channel of transit by which a traveler is able to travel to or near the at least one geographic node of activity, and the threshold of traffic intensity is predetermined and based at least partially on a capacity of traffic of the at least one channel of transit.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the at least one channel of transit comprises a plurality of roads, and wherein the capacity of traffic is based at least partially on a volume of vehicular traffic capable of traveling along the plurality of roads.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: associating, with at least one processor, the at least one geographic node of activity with a category of traffic intensity; and generating, with at least one processor, display data configured to cause the at least one navigation device to display the at least one geographic node of activity as at least one point on a geographical map of the region, wherein a visual characteristic of the at least one point represents the category of traffic intensity.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one navigation device is associated with at least one consumer who is traveling through the region via the navigation route.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the communication to the at least one navigation device is relayed through at least one localized communication device positioned in a subregion of the region, the at least one localized communication device programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices in the subregion to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the at least one localized communication device comprises a plurality of localized communication devices forming a subregional communication network, and wherein each localized communication device of the plurality of localized communication devices is programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices and other localized communication devices to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
9. A system comprising at least one server computer including at least one processor, the at least one server computer is programmed and/or configured to: receive at least one message associated with at least one transaction between at least one consumer and at least one point-of-sale terminal in a region; identify, based on the at least one message, at least one geographic node of activity in the region comprising the at least one point-of-sale terminal; generate, based at least partially on a transportation categorization of the at least one consumer, an estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity; compare the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity to a threshold of traffic intensity; in response to determining that the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity satisfies the threshold of traffic intensity, generate a communication to at least one navigation device configured to cause the at least one navigation device to modify a navigation route; and communicate the communication to the at least one navigation device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one server computer is further programmed and/or configured to: receive, with at least one processor, historic transaction data comprising a plurality of transactions by the at least one consumer; and generate, with at least one processor and using a machine-learning classification model, based at least partially on at least one type of transaction of the historic transaction data, the transportation categorization for the at least one consumer representative of a mode of transportation to be taken by the at least one consumer.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the region comprises at least one channel of transit by which a traveler is able to travel to or near the at least one geographic node of activity, the at least one channel of transit comprises a plurality of roads, and the threshold of traffic intensity is predetermined and based at least partially on a volume of vehicular traffic capable of traveling along the plurality of roads.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one navigation device is associated with at least one consumer who is traveling through the region via the navigation route.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the communication to the at least one navigation device is relayed through at least one localized communication device positioned in a subregion of the region, the at least one localized communication device programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices in the subregion to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one localized communication device comprises a plurality of localized communication devices forming a subregional communication network, and wherein each localized communication device of the plurality of localized communication devices is programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices and other localized communication devices to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
15. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium including program instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive at least one message associated with at least one transaction between at least one consumer and at least one point-of-sale terminal in a region; identify, based on the at least one message, at least one geographic node of activity in the region comprising the at least one point-of-sale terminal; generate, based at least partially on a transportation categorization of the at least one consumer, an estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity; compare the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity to a threshold of traffic intensity; in response to determining that the estimate of traffic intensity for the at least one geographic node of activity satisfies the threshold of traffic intensity, generate a communication to at least one navigation device configured to cause the at least one navigation device to modify a navigation route; and communicate the communication to the at least one navigation device.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive, with at least one processor, historic transaction data comprising a plurality of transactions by at least one consumer; and generate, with at least one processor and using a machine-learning classification model, based at least partially on at least one type of transaction of the historic transaction data, the transportation categorization for the at least one consumer representative of a mode of transportation to be taken by the at least one consumer.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the region comprises at least one channel of transit by which a traveler is able to travel to or near the at least one geographic node of activity, the at least one channel of transit comprises a plurality of roads, and the threshold of traffic intensity is predetermined and based at least partially on a volume of vehicular traffic capable of traveling along the plurality of roads.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the at least one navigation device is associated with at least one consumer who is traveling through the region via the navigation route.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the communication to the at least one navigation device is relayed through at least one localized communication device positioned in a subregion of the region, the at least one localized communication device programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices in the subregion to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the at least one localized communication device comprises a plurality of localized communication devices forming a subregional communication network, and wherein each localized communication device of the plurality of localized communication devices is programmed and/or configured to communicate with navigation devices and other localized communication devices to facilitate generation of navigation routes for travelers in the subregion.
</claims>
</document>
