<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/15,H03M1/70,H03M7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACOUSTICAL BEAUTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILOT, GILLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60262860
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPROXIMATION OF SAMPLES OF A DIGITAL SIGNAL REDUCING A NUMBER OF SIGNIFICANT BITS ACCORDING TO VALUES OF THE SAMPLES
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to the representation of digital signals. In order to improve the perception by a user of the quality of a digital signal, a first sample of first digital signal is approximated to a second sample of a second digital signal having a second number of significant bits lower than the first number of significant bits of the first sample. The second number of significant bits also depends upon the value of the first sample.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A digital circuitry configured to calculate, from at least a value of a first sample of a first digital signal, a value of a second sample of a second digital signal, based on the value of the first sample, said value of the second sample having a second number of significant bits lower than a first number of significant bits of the value of the first sample, said second number of significant bits depending at least on the value of the first sample.
2. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is defined according to the value the first sample, so that the second number of significant bits varies in a direction opposite to a direction of variation of the absolute value of the first sample.
3. The digital circuitry of claim 2, wherein the second number of significant bits is equal to the minimum of a first predefined number minus a rounding of a binary logarithm of the absolute value of the first sample, and a second predefined number.
4. The digital circuitry of claim 2, wherein the second number of significant bits is obtained using: a third predefined number lower than the bit depth of the first digital signal; a fourth predefined number higher than 1 and lower than the bit depth of the first digital signal minus the third predefined number; a fifth predefined number higher than or equal to 1, and lower than or equal to the bit depth of the first digital signal minus the third predefined number minus the fourth predefined number (D) plus 1; by: identifying the highest integer number between 0 and the fourth predefined number, for which the first integer number is lower than: two raised to the power of the bit depth of the first digital signal minus one; multiplied by two raised to the power of 1 minus the fifth predefined number minus said highest number; setting the second number of significant bits as the third predefined number plus said highest integer number.
5. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is defined according to a predicted difference between the value of the first sample and an approximation of the first sample using a third number of significant bits, so that the second number of significant bits varies in the same direction than the direction of variation of the absolute value of said predicted difference.
6. The digital circuitry of claim 5, wherein the second number of significant bits is defined as a growing function of said predicted difference divided by the value of the first sample.
7. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits depends upon values of coefficients obtained by a frequency transform of a time window of samples of the first digital signal comprising the first sample.
8. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is defined according to a value representative of a derivative of the first digital signal at the first sample.
9. The digital circuitry of claim 8, wherein the value representative of the derivative of the first digital signal at the first sample is an absolute difference between the value of the first sample and the value of the sample immediately preceding the first sample in the first digital signal.
10. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the value of the second sample is selected as a suitable value, belonging to an ordered set of suitable values, which is the closest to the value of the first sample in the ordered set of suitable values, and wherein the number of significant bits of each suitable value in the ordered set of suitable values is lower than the number of significant bits of any value in an open interval between said suitable value in the ordered set and an neighbor suitable value in said set.
11. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein: the value of the second sample is calculated based on an intermediary value, said intermediary value having a second number of significant bits lower than an intermediary number of significant bits of the intermediary value, and depending at least of said intermediary value; the intermediary value is calculated based on the value of the first sample, the intermediary number of significant bits being lower than the number of significant bits of the first sample.
12. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is selected among two or more candidate numbers of significant bits, each of said two or more candidate numbers of significant bits being lower than a first number of significant bits of the value of the first sample, and depending at least on the value of the first sample.
13. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is lower than or equal to a number of significant bits allowing the second digital signal, or a signal derived therefrom to match an expected bit depth of a processing unit that receives as input said second digital signal, or a signal derived therefrom.
14. The digital circuitry of claim 1, wherein the second number of significant bits is higher than or equal to a minimum number of significant bits of the value of the second sample that does not introduce a noticeable alteration in the second digital signal, or a signal derived therefrom.
15. The digital circuitry of claim 14, wherein the noticeable alteration is a noticeable quantization noise.
16. A digital circuitry configured to perform a convolution of an input digital signal, or a derivative thereof, and a second digital signal to obtain an output digital signal, a value of a second sample of the second digital signal being calculated from at least a value of a first sample of a first digital signal by a digital circuitry according to claim 1.
17. A second digital signal, wherein a value of a second sample of the second digital signal is calculated based on a value of a first sample of a first digital signal, said value of the second sample having a second number of significant bits lower than a first number of significant bits of the value of the first sample, said second number of significant bits depending at least on the value of the first sample.
18. A method to calculate, from at least a value of a first sample of a first digital signal, a value of a second sample of a second digital signal based on the value of the first sample, said value of the second sample having a second number of significant bits lower than a first number of significant bits of the value of the first sample, said second number of significant bits depending at least on the value of the first sample.
19. A method of convolution of an input digital signal and a second digital signal to obtain an output digital signal, a value of a second sample of the second digital signal being calculated, from at least a value of a first sample of a first digital signal by a method according to claim 18.
20. A computer program product comprising computer code instructions stored on a non-transitory computer storage medium wherein the computer code instructions when executed by one or more processors configured the one or more processors to execute the method of claim 18.
</claims>
</document>
