<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R31/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI ELECTRIC COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
UMEZAWA, KAZUYOSHI
NOTO, YASUYUKI
TSUKUTA, MOTOHIRO
ISHIDA, SATOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944806
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ABNORMALITY CAUSE IDENTIFYING METHOD, ABNORMALITY CAUSE IDENTIFYING DEVICE, POWER CONVERTER AND POWER CONVERSION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An abnormality cause identifying method that is applied to a computer is provided. The abnormality cause identifying method includes: outputting a control parameter that is calculated based on a detection value detected from a power converter that converts power supplied from a power supply and supplies the converted power to a load; plotting, on coordinates having at least two axes, a value that is calculated using the detection value and the control parameter; and identifying an abnormality cause based on a quadrant of the coordinates on which the value is plotted.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An abnormality cause identifying method that is applied to a computer, the abnormality cause identifying method comprising: outputting a control parameter that is calculated based on a detection value detected from a power converter that converts power supplied from a power supply and supplies the converted power to a load; plotting, on coordinates having at least two axes, a value that is calculated using the detection value and the control parameter; and identifying an abnormality cause based on a quadrant of the coordinates on which the value is plotted.
2. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: applying a sampling process at a constant interval to the value that is calculated based on the detection value and the control parameter to obtain sampled values; generating a first value obtained by calculating a square of each of the sampled values and by calculating a summation of the calculated squares included in a constant time period; generating a second value obtained by calculating a square of each difference between consecutive sampled values at the constant interval and by calculating a summation of the calculated squares included in the constant time period; and plotting the first value and the second value on the coordinates.
3. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: applying a sampling process to the detection value at a constant interval to obtain sampled values, generating a third value obtained by calculating a deviation of each of the sampled values from the control parameter and by calculating a summation of the deviations included in a constant time period; and generating a fourth value obtained by calculating each difference between consecutive calculated deviations at the constant interval and by calculating a summation of the calculated differences included in the constant time period; and plotting the third value and the fourth value on the coordinates.
4. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating a fifth value by applying Fourier transformation to a voltage value detected by the power converter; calculating a sixth value by applying Fourier transformation to a current value detected by the power converter; plotting the fifth value and the sixth value on the coordinates.
5. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: generating a seventh value using an alternating current (AC) output power detected by the power converter; generating an eighth value using a charge and discharge power from a chopper unit included in the power converter; plotting the seventh value and the eighth value on the coordinates.
6. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: applying a sampling process to the detection value at a constant interval to obtain sampled values; generating a tenth value by calculating a square of each of the sampled values, by calculating, as a ninth value, a summation of the calculated squares included in a constant time period, and by calculating, as the tenth value, a difference between the ninth value and an average value of the ninth value; generating a twelfth value by calculating a square of each difference between consecutive sampled values at the constant interval, by calculating, as an eleventh value, a summation of the calculated squares included in the constant time period, and by calculating, as the twelfth value, a ratio between the eleventh value and the ninth value; and plotting the tenth value and the twelfth value on the coordinates.
7. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 4, further comprising: performing plotting in such a way that an average value calculated using the detection value and the control parameter is plotted at a zero point of the coordinates.
8. The abnormality cause identifying method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining whether target data plotted on the coordinates is within a determination area preset according to a predetermined condition; calculating a vector value based on each of an X-axis component value of the value and a Y-axis component value of the value in the case where the value is out of the determination area; multiplying the vector value with a normalization parameter to normalize the value, a mode parameter determined by any of an operation state and an abnormal event of the power converter, and a weight factor; subtracting a bias value used for preventing an incorrect determination of an abnormality cause from the multiplied value; and identifying, as the abnormality cause, an abnormal event corresponding to a greatest value among values exceeding zero in the case where the subtracted value exceeds zero.
9. An abnormality cause identifying device for identifying an abnormality of a power converter that converts power supplied from a power supply and supplies the converted power to a load, the abnormality cause identifying device comprising: an operation mode control adjustment unit configured to output a control parameter calculated based on a detection value detected from the power converter; a data analysis unit configured to plot, on coordinates having at least two axes, a value that is calculated using the detection value and the control parameter; and an identifying unit configured to identify an abnormality cause based on a quadrant of the coordinates on which the value is plotted.
10. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit determines that an abnormality has occurred in the case where the plotted value exceeds a predetermined range.
11. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 10, wherein the data analysis unit calculates a distance indicating how far the plotted value deviates from a predetermined range in the case where the plotted value exceeds the predetermined range, and outputs the calculated distance to the identifying unit, the operation mode control adjustment unit outputs an operation mode information indicating an operation state of the power converter determined based on the detection value, and the identifying unit selects an operation mode parameter corresponding to any of abnormal events in addition to the operation mode information, and identifies an abnormality cause based on the operation mode parameter, the vector value and a preset weight factor.
12. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 11, wherein the identifying unit multiplies the operation mode parameter by the weight factor, subtracts a bias value used for preventing an incorrect determination of an abnormality cause from the multiplied value, and identifies an abnormal event corresponding to a largest value among values exceeding zero as an abnormality cause in the case where the subtracted value exceeds zero.
13. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit includes a first analysis unit that includes a sampling unit for applying a sampling process to the detection value at a constant interval to obtain sampled values, a first value generation unit for generating a first value obtained by calculating a square of each of the sampled values and by calculating a summation of the calculated squares included in a constant time period, a second value generation unit for generating a second value obtained by calculating a square of each difference between consecutive sampled values at the constant interval and by calculating a summation of the calculated squares included in the constant time period, and a first plotting unit for plotting the first value and the second value on the coordinates.
14. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit includes a second analysis unit that includes a sampling unit for applying a sampling process to the detection value at a constant interval to obtain sampled values, a third value generation unit for generating a third value obtained by calculating a deviation of each of the sampled values from the control parameter and by calculating a summation of the deviations included in a constant time period, a fourth value generation unit for generating a fourth value obtained by calculating a difference of each of the deviations at the constant interval and by calculating a summation of the calculated differences included in the constant time period, and a second plotting unit for plotting the third value and the fourth value on the coordinates.
15. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit includes a third analysis unit that includes a fifth value generation unit for calculating a fifth value by applying Fourier transformation to a voltage value detected by the power converter; a sixth value generation unit for calculating a sixth value by applying Fourier transformation to a current value detected by the power converter; and a third plotting unit for plotting the fifth value and the sixth value on the coordinates.
16. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit includes a fourth analysis unit that includes a seventh value generation unit for generating a seventh value using an alternating current (AC) output power detected by the power converter, an eighth value generation unit for generating an eighth value using a charge and discharge power from a chopper unit included in the power converter, and a fourth plotting unit for plotting the seventh value and the eighth value on the coordinates.
17. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9, wherein the data analysis unit includes a fifth analysis unit that includes a sampling unit for applying a sampling process to the detection value at a constant interval to obtain sampled values, a tenth value generation unit for generating a tenth value obtained by calculating a square of each of the sampled values, by calculating, as a ninth value, a summation of the calculated squares included in a constant time period, and by calculating a difference between the ninth value and an average value of the ninth value, an twelfth value generation unit for generating a twelfth value obtained by calculating a square of each difference between consecutive sampled values at the constant interval, by calculating a summation of the calculated squares as an eleventh value, and by calculating a ratio between the eleventh value and the ninth value, and a fifth plotting unit for plotting the tenth value and the twelfth value on the coordinates.
18. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 13, wherein the first plotting unit performs plotting in such a way that an average value of each of the first value and the second value is a zero point of the coordinates.
19. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 15, wherein the third plotting unit performs plotting in such a way that an average value of each of the fifth value and the sixth value is a zero point of the coordinates.
20. The abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 11, wherein the identifying unit further includes a machine learning unit for learning a modifying method of the weight factor.
21. A power converter including a display unit that displays a result of the abnormality cause identifying device according to claim 9.
22. A power conversion system including the power converter according to claim 21, wherein the result of the abnormality cause identifying device is displayed on a terminal via a network.
</claims>
</document>
