<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YASHIRO, KATSUYA
Yoda, Junya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE CONTROL DEVICE, VEHICLE CONTROL METHOD, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle control device includes: a recognizer configured to recognize a surrounding situation of a vehicle; an interruption vehicle specifier configured to specify an interruption vehicle attempting to interrupt a travel lane from a lateral side of the travel lane of the vehicle based on a recognition result of the recognizer; and a driving controller configured to control at least one of an acceleration or deceleration speed or steering of the vehicle based on a position of the specified interruption vehicle. The interruption vehicle specifier specifies the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle when a side movement amount by which another vehicle on a lateral side of the travel lane heads for the travel lane in a road width direction during a predetermined period exceeds a threshold. The interruption vehicle specifier causes the threshold to be less when the other vehicle is traveling at a position close to the travel lane than when the other vehicle is traveling at a position away from the travel lane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle control device comprising: a recognizer configured to recognize a surrounding situation of a vehicle; an interruption vehicle specifier configured to specify an interruption vehicle attempting to interrupt a travel lane from a lateral side of the travel lane of the vehicle based on a recognition result of the recognizer; and a driving controller configured to control at least one of an acceleration or deceleration speed or steering of the vehicle based on a position of the specified interruption vehicle, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier specifies the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle when a side movement amount by which another vehicle on a lateral side of the travel lane heads for the travel lane in a road width direction during a predetermined period exceeds a threshold, and wherein the interruption vehicle specifier causes the threshold to be less when the other vehicle is traveling at a position close to the travel lane than when the other vehicle is traveling at a position away from the travel lane.
2. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier determines whether the side movement amount exceeds the threshold during each of a plurality of predetermined periods in which a degree of traceback to the past is different, and specifies the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle based on a determination result.
3. The vehicle control device according to claim 2, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier determines whether the side movement amount exceeds the threshold during each of the plurality of predetermined periods, and specifies the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle when the interruption vehicle specifier determines that the side movement amount exceeds the threshold a predetermined number of times or more.
4. The vehicle control device according to claim 3, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier applies a larger threshold when the interruption vehicle specifier performs the determination during the predetermined period in which the traceback amount to the past is large among the plurality of predetermined periods than when the interruption vehicle specifier performs the determination during the predetermined period in which the traceback amount to the past is small among the plurality of predetermined periods.
5. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier performs a specifying process of a first stage performed using a first threshold and a specifying process of a second stage performed using a second threshold which is the same as or a larger than the first threshold, and wherein the driving controller causes a degree of control corresponding to the interruption vehicle to be larger when the other vehicle is specified as the interruption vehicle through the specifying process of the second stage than when the other vehicle is specified as the interruption vehicle through only the specifying process of the first stage.
6. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier acquires a position of the other vehicle in a road width direction periodically and sets a value obtained by integrating changes in the positions in the road width direction at the period as the side movement amount.
7. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier derives the side movement amount based on a position of the other vehicle in the road width direction at which a road demarcation line is set as a standard.
8. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the recognizer recognizes a type or an attribute of the other vehicle, and wherein the interruption vehicle specifier determines the threshold based on the recognized type or attribute of the other vehicle.
9. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier determines the threshold based on a travel environment, a travel state, or a control state of the vehicle.
10. The vehicle control device according to claim 1, wherein the interruption vehicle specifier sets another vehicle traveling within a predetermined range on a lateral side of the travel lane as a target specified as the interruption vehicle and changes the predetermined range based on a state of the vehicle.
11. A vehicle control method causing a computer: to recognize a surrounding situation of a vehicle; to specify an interruption vehicle attempting to interrupt a travel lane from a lateral side of the travel lane of the vehicle based on a recognition result; to control at least one of an acceleration or deceleration speed or steering of the vehicle based on a position of the specified interruption vehicle; to specify the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle when the interruption vehicle is specified and a side movement amount by which another vehicle on a lateral side of the travel lane heads for the travel lane in a road width direction during a predetermined period exceeds a threshold; and to cause the threshold to be less when the other vehicle is traveling at a position close to the travel lane than when the other vehicle is traveling at a position away from the travel lane.
12. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium that stores a program causing a computer: to recognize a surrounding situation of a vehicle; to specify an interruption vehicle attempting to interrupt a travel lane from a lateral side of the travel lane of the vehicle based on a recognition result; to control at least one of an acceleration or deceleration speed or steering of the vehicle based on a position of the specified interruption vehicle; to specify the other vehicle as the interruption vehicle when the interruption vehicle is specified and a side movement amount by which another vehicle on a lateral side of the travel lane heads for the travel lane in a road width direction during a predetermined period exceeds a threshold; and to cause the threshold to be less when the other vehicle is traveling at a position close to the travel lane than when the other vehicle is traveling at a position away from the travel lane.
</claims>
</document>
