<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09G5/00,H04N21/4363,H04N21/4722
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
OH, SUNGBO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70108051
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus includes: a signal output circuit configured to connect with an external apparatus connected to a display apparatus, a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain information about a first image format supported in the display apparatus from the external apparatus, output a content signal having the first image format to the external apparatus through the signal output circuit to the display apparatus based on identifying that the external apparatus supports an interface protocol capable of transmitting the content signal having the first image format, and output a content signal having a second image format different from the first image format to the external apparatus through the signal output circuit based on identifying that the external apparatus does not support the interface protocol.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a signal output circuit configured to connect with an external apparatus connected to a display apparatus, a processor configured to control the electronic apparatus to: obtain information about a first image format supported in the display apparatus from the external apparatus, output a content signal having the first image format to the external apparatus through the signal output circuit to the display apparatus based on identifying that the external apparatus supports an interface protocol capable of transmitting the content signal having the first image format, and output a content signal having a second image format different from the first image format to the external apparatus through the signal output circuit based on identifying that the external apparatus does not support the interface protocol.
2. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to identify that the external apparatus does not support the interface protocol based on a predetermined signal line between the signal output circuit and the external apparatus being used in transmitting a clock signal and not transmitting data of a content signal, and identify that the external apparatus supports the interface protocol based on the signal line being used in transmitting the data.
3. The electronic apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the interface protocol is supported based on a connection using a high definition multimedia interface (HDMI) 2.1 and the HDMI between the signal output circuit and the external apparatus, wherein the interface protocol is not supported based on a connection using an HDMI older than HDMI 2.1.
4. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to check a value stored in a preset register of the external apparatus to identify whether the interface protocol is supported.
5. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to output the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a mode of decompressing and processing image data compressed and transmitted in real time.
6. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the information obtained from the external apparatus includes a plurality of blocks, and the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to output the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the number of blocks, among the plurality of blocks, is greater than or equal to a threshold, wherein the number of blocks is not null.
7. The electronic apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the information comprises extended display identification data (EDID), the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to output the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that three or more blocks are present in the EDID, wherein the three or more blocks are not null.
8. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to output the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a power transfer mode to the external apparatus through the signal output circuit.
9. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: output the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a mode of extracting an audio signal from the content signal received from the electronic apparatus and returning the extracted audio signal to the electronic apparatus.
10. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first image format corresponds to an 8K-class resolution, and the second image format corresponds to a resolution lower than the 8K-class resolution.
11. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the signal output circuit is configured to output the content signal based on a high definition multimedia interface (HDMI) protocol.
12. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, comprising: obtaining information about a first image format supported in a display apparatus from an external apparatus connected to the display apparatus; outputting a content signal having the first image format to the external apparatus to the display apparatus based on identifying that the external apparatus supports an interface protocol capable of transmitting the content signal having the first image format; and outputting a content signal having a second image format different from the first image format to the external apparatus based on identifying that the external apparatus does not support the interface protocol.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: identifying that the external apparatus does not support the interface protocol based on a predetermined signal line between the electronic apparatus and the external apparatus being used in transmitting a clock signal and not data of a content signal, and identifying that the external apparatus supports the interface protocol based on the signal line being used in transmitting the data.
14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: supporting the interface protocol based on a connection using a high definition multimedia interface (HDMI) 2.1 and HDMI between the electronic apparatus and the external apparatus, without supporting the interface protocol based on a connection using an HDMI older than the HDMI 2.1.
15. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: checking a value stored in a preset register of the external apparatus to identify whether the interface protocol is supported.
16. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: outputting the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a mode of decompressing and processing image data compressed and transmitted in real time.
17. The method according to claim 12, wherein the information obtained from the external apparatus includes a plurality of blocks, and the method further comprises: outputting the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the number of blocks, among the plurality of blocks, is greater than or equal to a threshold, wherein the number of blocks is not null.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the information comprises extended display identification data (EDID), and the method further comprises: outputting the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that three or more blocks are present in the EDID, wherein the three or more blocks are not null.
19. The method according to claim 12, further comprising outputting the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a power transfer mode to the external apparatus through a signal output circuit.
20. The method according to claim 12, further comprising outputting the content signal having the first image format based on identifying that the external apparatus supports a mode of extracting an audio signal from the content signal received from the electronic apparatus and returning the extracted audio signal to the electronic apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
