<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/953,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU, MING-CHUAN
SHAH, VISHRUT
LOW, YUCHENG
BHATIA, SANDEEP
ARYA, Rajat
AGRAWAL, Pulkit
BINDAL, Aanchal
SHEN, Bochao
GAGNEJA, Anupriya
GODLEWSKI, Joseph E.
ZHAO, Kaiyu
RAMAN, Balan
PALIWAL, Mudit Manu
SUGDEN, Laura
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016071
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA MANAGEMENT PLATFORM FOR MACHINE LEARNING MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
The subject technology generates a dataset based at least in part on a set of files. The subject technology generates, utilizing a machine learning model, a set of labels corresponding to the dataset. The subject technology filters the dataset using a set of conditions to generate at least a subset of the dataset. The subject technology generates a virtual object based at least in part on the subset of the dataset and the set of labels, where the virtual object corresponds to a selection of data from the dataset. The subject technology trains a second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the subset of the dataset, where training the second machine learning model includes utilizing streaming file input/output (I/O), the streaming file I/O providing access to at least the subset of the dataset during training.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating a dataset based at least in part on a set of files; generating, utilizing a machine learning model, a set of labels corresponding to the dataset, wherein the machine learning model is pre-trained based at least in part on a portion of the dataset; filtering the dataset using a set of conditions to generate at least a subset of the dataset; generating a virtual object based at least in part on the subset of the dataset and the set of labels, wherein the virtual object corresponds to a selection of data from the dataset; and training a second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the subset of the dataset, wherein training the second machine learning model includes utilizing streaming file input/output (I/O), the streaming file I/O providing access to at least the subset of the dataset during training.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein training the second machine learning model further comprises: performing a mount command to provide access to raw files from the subset of the dataset, the mount command enabling streaming access to different raw files in one or more machine learning frameworks or stored in one or more respective storage locations.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of files represents an abstraction of raw data that is stored remotely in cloud storage, and the machine learning model is pre-trained, and the method further comprising: providing e second machine learning model for execution at a local electronic device or at a remote server.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of labels comprises metadata corresponding to extracted features or supplementary properties of the dataset.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: creating a split object based at least in part on the filtering the dataset using the set of conditions, the split object comprising the subset of the dataset and a second subset of the dataset.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the subset of the dataset comprises training data and the second subset of the dataset comprises validation data, the training data and the validation data comprising respective mutually exclusive subsets of the dataset.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of files include raw data that is used as inputs for evaluation of the machine learning model, and further comprising: generating, utilizing a different machine learning model, a second set of labels corresponding to the dataset, wherein the second set of labels is different than the set of labels generated by the machine learning model; filtering the dataset using a second set of conditions to generate at least a second subset of the dataset; generating a second virtual object based at least in part on the second subset of the dataset and the second set of labels; and training a third machine learning model using the second virtual object and at least the second subset of the dataset.
8. The method of claim wherein training the second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the subset of the dataset further comprises: training the second machine learning model based at least in part on a first dataset corresponding to a query on the dataset provided by the virtual object; and validating the second machine learning model based at least in part on a second dataset corresponding to a second query on the dataset provided by the virtual object.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the query and the second query on the dataset are submitted to a cloud service for execution.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the second machine learning model provides a prediction using a second dataset as input.
11. A system comprising: a processor; a memory device containing instructions, which when executed by the processor cause the processor to: generate a dataset based at least in part on a set of files; generate, utilizing a machine learning model, a set of labels corresponding to the dataset, wherein the machine learning model is pre-trained based at least in part on a portion of the dataset; filter the dataset using a set of conditions to generate at least a subset of the dataset; generate a virtual object based at least n part on the subset of the dataset and the set of labels; and train a second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the subset of the dataset, wherein to train the second machine learning model includes providing a file system view of raw files from the subset of the dataset.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to train the second machine learning model further causes the processor to: perform a mount command to provide access to raw files from the subset of the dataset in a logical file system, wherein the mount command provides the file system view of the raw files, the file system view enabling access to different raw files in one or more machine learning frameworks or stored in one or more respective storage locations.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of files represents an abstraction of raw data that is stored remotely in cloud storage, the machine learning model is pre-trained, and the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: provide the second machine learning model for execution at a local electronic device or at a remote server.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of labels comprises metadata corresponding to extracted features or supplementary properties of the dataset.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the memory device contains further instructions, which when executed by the processor further cause the processor to: create a split object based at least in part on the filtering the dataset using the set of conditions, the split object comprising the subset of the dataset and a second subset of the dataset.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the subset of the dataset comprises training data and the second subset of the dataset comprises validation data, the training data and the validation data comprising respective mutually exclusive subsets of the dataset.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of files includes raw data that is used as inputs for evaluation of the machine learning model.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein to train the second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the subset of the dataset further causes the processor to: train the second machine learning model based at least in part on a first dataset corresponding to a query on the dataset provided by the virtual object; and validate the second machine learning model based at least in part on a second dataset corresponding to a second query on the dataset provided by the virtual object.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the query and the second query on the dataset are submitted to a cloud service for execution.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions, which when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: generating a dataset object based at least in part on a set of files; generating, utilizing a machine learning model, an annotation object corresponding to the dataset object, the annotation object corresponding to a set of labels for the dataset object, wherein the machine learning model is pre-trained based at least in part on a portion of the dataset object; filtering the dataset using a set of conditions to generate a split object, the split object corresponding to at least a subset of the dataset; generating a virtual object based at least in part on the subset of the dataset object and the annotation object; and training a second machine learning model using the virtual object and at least the split object.
</claims>
</document>
