<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/957,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FOX, JEREMY R.
HANDY BOSMA, JOHN
Leon, Juan
Holmquist, Leanna
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425678
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING USER CONTROL OF TRACKING USER BEHAVIOR
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program product for providing user control of tracking user behavior. A request from a tracking implementer (e.g., website) for installing content (e.g., tracking cookies) on a user's computing device for tracking user behavior is detected. Alternatively, the installation of content by the tracking implementer on the user's computing device to track user behavior is detected. If the user had previously established a standard terms of service for the tracking implementer to abide in order to track the user's behavior, then a determination is made as to whether the tracking implementer agreed to accept such standard terms of service. If the tracking implementer did not agree to accept such standard terms of service, then the tracking implementer is blocked from tracking the user's online behavior, including blocking the tracking implementer from installing content on the user's computing device to track the user's behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing user control of tracking user behavior, the method comprising: detecting a request from a tracking implementer to install content on a user's computing device, wherein said installed content is used to track user behavior; determining whether said tracking implementer previously agreed to accept a standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior in response to user previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer; blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device in response to said tracking implementer not previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior; and permitting said tracking implementer to install content on said user's computing device in response to said tracking implementer previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said standard terms of service comprises providing economic value to said user for tracking said user behavior.
3. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device in response to said user not previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer.
4. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: informing said user that consent to tracking will be blocked until said user has indicated acceptance to tracking in response to blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device.
5. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: receiving a request from said user to register said user with a service provider to establish said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer; and providing options to said user for terms of said standard terms of service with said tracking implementer as well as options for blocking consent to tracking and for detecting tracking of said user behavior.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said installed content comprises a tracking cookie.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said tracking implementer comprises a website.
8. A computer program product for providing user control of tracking user behavior, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code comprising the programming instructions for: detecting a request from a tracking implementer to install content on a user's computing device, wherein said installed content is used to track user behavior; determining whether said tracking implementer previously agreed to accept a standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior in response to user previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer; blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device in response to said tracking implementer not previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior; and permitting said tracking implementer to install content on said user's computing device in response to said tracking implementer previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior.
9. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein said standard terms of service comprises providing economic value to said user for tracking said user behavior.
10. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device in response to said user not previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer.
11. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: informing said user that consent to tracking will be blocked until said user has indicated acceptance to tracking in response to blocking said tracking implementer from installing content on said user's computing device.
12. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: receiving a request from said user to register said user with a service provider to establish said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer; and providing options to said user for terms of said standard terms of service with said tracking implementer as well as options for blocking consent to tracking and for detecting tracking of said user behavior.
13. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein said installed content comprises a tracking cookie.
14. The computer program product as recited in claim 8, wherein said tracking implementer comprises a website.
15. A method for providing user control of tracking user behavior, the method comprising: detecting a tracking implementer installing content on a user's computing device to track user behavior; determining whether said tracking implementer previously agreed to accept a standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior in response to user previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer; blocking said tracking implementer from tracking said user behavior in response to said tracking implementer not previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior; and permitting said tracking implementer to track said user behavior in response to said tracking implementer previously agreeing to accept said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein said standard terms of service comprises providing economic value to said user for tracking said user behavior.
17. The method as recited in claim 15 further comprising: blocking said tracking implementer from tracking said user behavior in response to said user not previously establishing said standard terms of service for tracking said user behavior by said tracking implementer.
18. The method as recited in claim 15 further comprising: informing said user that consent to tracking will be blocked until said user has indicated acceptance to tracking in response to blocking said tracking implementer from tracking said user behavior.
19. The method as recited in claim 15 further comprising: detecting said tracking implementer installing content on said user's computing device to track user behavior by comparing and logging content differences on said user's computing device over a period of time.
20. The method as recited in claim 15 further comprising: detecting said tracking implementer installing content on said user's computing device to track user behavior by using a machine learning algorithm based on a mathematical model of various means of tracking implementers tracking user behavior.
</claims>
</document>
