<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W50/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROBERT BOSCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIS, KORNEL ISTVAN
ANKA, LASZLO
YANG, CHUN
KIS, LEVENTE
RIGO, ADAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70859074
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting lane changes of other vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
A method for predicting whether another vehicle in the driving-environment of an ego-vehicle will execute a lane-change, based on observations of the driving-environment of the ego-vehicle, including: the observations are supplied to individual classificators; based on at least a portion of the observations, each individual classificator, in accordance with an individual instruction, ascertains an individual probability that the other vehicle will change lanes; the driving situation in which the ego-vehicle finds itself is classified as a whole by a situation classificator into one of several discrete classes; a record of weighting factors, assigned to the class into which the situation-classificator has classified the driving-situation, is ascertained, that indicates the relative weighting of the individual classificators for this driving situation; the individual probabilities are set off against the weighting-factors to form an overall probability that the other vehicle will change lanes. A method for training weighting-factors and related computer-program are described.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-15. (canceled)
16. A method for predicting whether another vehicle in the driving environment of an ego vehicle will execute a lane change, based on observations of the driving environment of the ego vehicle, the method comprising: supplying the observations to a plurality of individual classificators; ascertaining, based on at least a portion of the observations, each individual classificator, in accordance with an individual instruction, an individual probability that the other vehicle will change lanes; classifying the driving situation in which the ego vehicle finds itself as a whole by a situation classificator into one of several discrete classes; ascertaining a record of weighting factors, assigned to the class into which the situation classificator has classified the driving situation, that indicates the relative weighting of the individual classificators for this driving situation; and setting off the individual probabilities against the weighting factors to form an overall probability that the other vehicle will change lanes.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the driving situation is classified based at least on the category of the road on which the ego vehicle is currently traveling.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the driving situation is classified based at least on the visibility conditions and/or based on the lighting conditions in the driving environment of the ego vehicle.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the driving situation is classified based at least on the type of traffic junction toward which the ego vehicle is heading.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein if the ascertained record of weighting factors includes at least one weighting factor that is zero or lies below a predetermined threshold value, in response, the individual classificator belonging to this weighting factor is disregarded in ascertaining the overall probability.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein at least one sensor for the driving environment of the ego vehicle, whose observations are used exclusively by those individual classificators which are disregarded in ascertaining the overall probability, is deactivated.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one individual classificator ascertains whether a turn-signal indicator of the other vehicle is activated.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one individual classificator ascertains whether the other vehicle is matching its speed in the lane currently used by the other vehicle, to the driving speed in a lane adjacent to the other vehicle.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one individual classificator ascertains whether the lane presently being used by the other vehicle is blocked and/or ends up ahead of the other vehicle.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein when the ascertained overall probability exceeds a predetermined threshold value and the anticipated trajectory of the other vehicle intersects the presently planned trajectory of the ego vehicle as a result of the questionable lane change, in response, an optical and/or acoustic warning device of the ego vehicle is activated and/or a drive system, a brake system and/or a steering system of the ego vehicle is/are controlled in order to prevent the trajectories from intersecting.
26. A method for ascertaining weighting factors for use in predicting whether another vehicle in the driving environment of an ego vehicle will execute a lane change, based on observations of the driving environment of the ego vehicle, the method comprising: optimizing the weighting factors to the effect that after setting off the individual probabilities against the weighting factors to form the overall probability on average over a predetermined quantity of training data records of observations, the error in predicting whether another vehicle will execute a lane change is minimized, it being known in each instance with respect to the training data records whether the other vehicle will actually execute a lane change, and the training data records relating to driving situations of the ego vehicle which are assigned by the situation classificator to the same class; supplying the observations to a plurality of individual classificators; ascertaining, based on at least a portion of the observations, each individual classificator, in accordance with an individual instruction, an individual probability that the other vehicle will change lanes; classifying the driving situation in which the ego vehicle finds itself as a whole by a situation classificator into one of several discrete classes; ascertaining a record of the weighting factors, assigned to the class into which the situation classificator has classified the driving situation, that indicates the relative weighting of the individual classificators for this driving situation; and setting off the individual probabilities against the weighting factors to form an overall probability that the other vehicle will change lanes.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the optimization is carried out iteratively, and upon each iteration, an additional individual probability is taken into account in comparison to the previous iteration.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein in each iteration, the training data records are weighted among each other according to the error in the prediction occurring in the previous iteration.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the driving situation is classified based at least on the category of the road on which the ego vehicle is currently traveling.
30. A non-transitory computer readable medium having a computer program, which is executable by a processor, comprising: a program code arrangement having program code for predicting whether another vehicle in the driving environment of an ego vehicle will execute a lane change, based on observations of the driving environment of the ego vehicle, by performing the following: supplying the observations to a plurality of individual classificators; ascertaining, based on at least a portion of the observations, each individual classificator, in accordance with an individual instruction, an individual probability that the other vehicle will change lanes; classifying the driving situation in which the ego vehicle finds itself as a whole by a situation classificator into one of several discrete classes; ascertaining a record of weighting factors, assigned to the class into which the situation classificator has classified the driving situation, that indicates the relative weighting of the individual classificators for this driving situation; and setting off the individual probabilities against the weighting factors to form an overall probability that the other vehicle will change lanes.
</claims>
</document>
