<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/93,G05D1/00,G05D1/10,G06K9/00,G08G5/00,G08G5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AURORA FLIGHT SCIENCES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAWSON-TOWNSEND, TIMOTHY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68318779
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive Sense and Avoid System
</title>

<abstract>
An adaptive sense and avoid system for use with an aerial vehicle in an environment, the adaptive sense and avoid system comprising a processor, a plurality of sensors, an obstacle detection circuit, and an avoidance trajectory circuit. The processor may be operatively coupled with a flight controller and a memory device, wherein the memory device comprises one or more databases. The plurality of sensors generates sensor data reflecting a position of an obstacle in the environment. The obstacle detection circuit, which is operatively coupled to the processor and the plurality of sensors, may be configured to identify obstacles based at least in part on the sensor data and to generate obstacle information that reflects a best estimate of a position of the obstacle in the environment. The obstacle detection circuit is configured to weigh the sensor data as a function of the aerial vehicle's state and its environment. The avoidance trajectory circuit, which is operatively coupled to the obstacle detection circuit and the processor, may be configured to calculate trajectory data as a function of the obstacle information and information from the one or more databases. The obstacle detection circuit is configured to communicate the trajectory data to the flight controller.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An adaptive sense and avoid system for use with an aerial vehicle in an environment, the adaptive sense and avoid system comprising: a processor operatively coupled with a flight controller and a memory device; a plurality of sensors coupled to the aerial vehicle, each of the plurality of sensors configured to generate sensor data reflecting a position of an obstacle in the environment; an obstacle detection circuit operatively coupled to the processor and the plurality of sensors, the obstacle detection circuit configured to blend the sensor data from each of the plurality of sensors to identify obstacles in the environment and to generate obstacle information that reflects a best estimate of a position of the obstacle in the environment, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to (i) set a sensor mode for each of a plurality of sensors based at least in part on a present state of the aerial vehicle and a condition of the environment, and (ii) assign a weight to the sensor data from each of the plurality of sensors as a function of sensor type, the present state of the aerial vehicle and the condition of the environment; and an avoidance trajectory circuit operatively coupled to the obstacle detection circuit and the processor, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to (i) calculate trajectory data as a function of the obstacle information and information from the one or more databases, and (ii) communicate the trajectory data to the flight controller.
2. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 1, wherein the one or more databases comprises (i) an airspace database of airspace data reflecting a defined legal airspace for the environment, (ii) an environment database of environment data reflecting environmental factors for the environment, and (iii) a terrain database of terrain data reflecting terrain characteristics of the environment.
3. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a first weight to sensor data from a first sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a second sensor a function of the airspace data.
4. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a first weight to sensor data from a cooperative sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a non-cooperative sensor a function of the airspace data, wherein the first weight is greater than the second weight.
5. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a first weight to sensor data from a first sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a second sensor a function of the environmental data.
6. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 5, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a lower weight to sensor data from visual sensors when the environmental data reflects poor visibility for the environment.
7. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to identify obstacles dynamically as a function of each of the airspace data, the environmental data, and the terrain data.
8. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the avoidance trajectory circuit is configured to calculate trajectory data dynamically as a function of at least one of the airspace data, the environmental data, and the terrain data.
9. The adaptive sense and avoid system of claim 2, wherein the adaptive sense and avoid system is communicatively coupled with a human-machine interface to provide a control and communication interface between the adaptive sense and avoid system and a human operator.
10. A method for navigating an aerial vehicle in an environment, the method comprising: determining, via a processor, a state of the aerial vehicle and the environment, wherein the processor is operatively coupled with a flight controller and a memory device having one or more databases; setting a sensor mode for each of a plurality of sensors based at least in part on the state of the aerial vehicle and the environment, wherein each of the plurality of sensors is configured to generate sensor data reflecting positions of obstacles in the environment; assigning, via an obstacle detection circuit, a weight to the sensor data from each of the plurality of sensors as a function of the state of the aerial vehicle and the environment, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is operatively coupled with the processor; generating, via the obstacle detection circuit, obstacle information reflecting a best estimate for an obstacle's position in the environment; monitoring, via the processor, the state of the aerial vehicle and the environment; querying the one or more databases to identify any flight constraints upon the aerial vehicle; calculating, via an avoidance trajectory circuit, a trajectory command for the aerial vehicle as a function of the obstacle information and the one or more databases, wherein the avoidance trajectory circuit is operatively coupled with the processor; and communicating the trajectory command to the flight controller.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more databases comprises (i) an airspace database of airspace data reflecting a defined legal airspace for the environment, (ii) an environment database of environment data reflecting environmental factors for the environment, and (iii) a terrain database of terrain data reflecting terrain characteristics of the environment.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein, during the assigning step, the obstacle detection circuit assigns a first weight to sensor data from a first sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a second sensor a function of the airspace data.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein, during the assigning step, the obstacle detection circuit assigns a first weight to sensor data from a cooperative sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a non-cooperative sensor a function of the airspace data, wherein the first weight is greater than the second weight.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein, during the assigning step, the obstacle detection circuit assigns a first weight to sensor data from a first sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a second sensor a function of the environmental data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein, during the assigning step, the obstacle detection circuit assigns a lower weight to sensor data from visual sensors when the environmental data reflects poor visibility for the environment.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein, during the step of generating the obstacle information, the obstacle detection circuit identifies obstacles dynamically as a function of each of the airspace data, the environmental data, and the terrain data.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein, during the step of calculating the trajectory command, the avoidance trajectory circuit calculates trajectory data dynamically as a function of at least one of the airspace data, the environmental data, and the terrain data.
18. An aerial vehicle comprising: a flight controller; a processor operatively coupled with the flight controller and a memory device, wherein the memory device comprises (i) an airspace database of airspace data reflecting a defined legal airspace for the environment, (ii) an environment database of environment data reflecting environmental factors for the environment, and (iii) a terrain database of terrain data reflecting terrain characteristics of the environment; a plurality of sensors configured to generate sensor data reflecting a position of an obstacle in the environment; an obstacle detection circuit operatively coupled to the processor and the plurality of sensors, the obstacle detection circuit configured to blend the sensor data from each of the plurality of sensors to identify obstacles in the environment and to generate obstacle information that reflects a best estimate of a position of the obstacle in the environment, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to (i) set a sensor mode for each of a plurality of sensors based at least in part on a present state of the aerial vehicle and a condition of the environment, and (ii) assign a weight to the sensor data from each of the plurality of sensors as a function of sensor type, the present state of the aerial vehicle and the condition of the environment; and an avoidance trajectory circuit operatively coupled to the obstacle detection circuit and the processor, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to (i) calculate trajectory data as a function of the obstacle information and information from the one or more databases, and (ii) communicate the trajectory data to the flight controller.
19. The aerial vehicle of claim 18, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a lower weight to sensor data from visual sensors when the environmental data reflects poor visibility for the environment.
20. The aerial vehicle of claim 18, wherein the obstacle detection circuit is configured to assign a first weight to sensor data from a cooperative sensor and to assign a second weight to sensor data from a non-cooperative sensor a function of the airspace data, wherein the first weight is greater than the second weight.
</claims>
</document>
