<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N5/04,G06T5/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED, MOHAMED N.
TOOR, ANDEEP S.
JUNG, MICHELLE H.
FONTAINE, EMILY
ANDERSON, DANIEL
KINNARD, KRISTA
PODGORNYAK, ANNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66676550
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK WITH AUGMENTATION FEATURES
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer program product, and a system where a processor(s) obtains an original image. The processor(s) applies a number of filters to the original image to generate a group of filtered images. The processor(s) stacks the original image with the filtered images in a three dimensional array; each layer of the stack comprises a separate filtered image or the original image and the three dimensional array comprises an augmented version of the original image. The processor(s) facilitates classification of the original image by a deep convolution neural network, where the facilitating comprises providing the augmented version of the original image to the deep convolution neural network, and where the deep convolution neural network classifies the original image based on applying a classification model to the augmented version of the original image The processor(s) receives the classification of the original image from the deep convolution neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining, by one or more processors, an original image; applying, by the one or more processors, a number of filters to the original image to generate a group of filtered images, wherein a respective filtered image, produced utilizing each filter, comprises the group of filtered images; stacking, by the one or more processors, the original image with the filtered images in a three dimensional array, the stack comprising a number of layers, wherein the number of filters is one number fewer than the number of layers, each layer of the number of layers of the stack comprises a separate filtered image or the original image, and wherein the three dimensional array comprises an augmented version of the original image; facilitating, by the one or more processors, classification of the original image by a deep convolution neural network by providing the augmented version of the original image to the deep convolution neural network, and wherein the deep convolution neural network classifies the original image based on applying a classification model to the augmented version of the original image; and obtaining, by the one or more processors, the classification of the original image from the deep convolution neural network.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the original image is selected from the group consisting of: a static image and a video frame.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the deep convolution neural network comprises an n-dimensional deep convolution neural network and the classification model comprises n-dimensional filters.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, where n is equal to 3.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein applying the classification model to the augmented version of the original image further comprises: producing, by the deep convolution neural network, 3D-convolution layers; and pooling, by the deep convolution neural network, the 3D convolution layers.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: training, by the one or more processors, the classification model, wherein the training comprises: selecting, by the one or more processors, a group of diverse images, wherein each image of the group has a known classification; applying, by the one or more processors, the number of filters to each image of group to generate, for each image of the group, a respective group of filtered images; stacking, by the one or more processors, each image of the group with the respective group of filtered images for the image in a new three dimensional array comprising an augmented version of each image; individually providing, by the one or more processors, each image of the group to a deep convolution neural network, wherein the deep convolution neural network classifies each image based on producing convolution layers comprising the classification model and pooling, the convolution layers; individually obtaining, by the one or more processors, the classifications each image of the group; for each image of the group, comparing, by the one or more processors, the classification to the known classification; and updating, by the one or more processors, the model, based on the comparing.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein applying the number of filters comprises preserving, by the one or more processors, dimensions of the original image in the filtered images.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the original image comprises original dimensions, and wherein the stacking comprises scaling the filtered images to have the original dimensions.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each filter is selected from the group consisting of: Laplacian, thresholding, canny edge detection, median blur, Gaussian blur, difference of median, difference of Gaussian, contours on canny edge detection, and average object.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where each filter is unique.
11. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium readable by one or more processors and storing instructions for execution by the one or more processors for performing a method comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, an original image; applying, by the one or more processors, a number of filters to the original image to generate a group of filtered images, wherein a respective filtered image, produced utilizing each filter, comprises the group of filtered images; stacking, by the one or more processors, the original image with the filtered images in a three dimensional array, the stack comprising a number of layers, wherein the number of filters is one number fewer than the number of layers, each layer of the number of layers of the stack comprises a separate filtered image or the original image, and wherein the three dimensional array comprises an augmented version of the original image; facilitating, by the one or more processors, classification of the original image by a deep convolution neural network by providing the augmented version of the original image to the deep convolution neural network, and wherein the deep convolution neural network classifies the original image based on applying a classification model to the augmented version of the original image; and obtaining, by the one or more processors, the classification of the original image from the deep convolution neural network.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the original image is selected from the group consisting of: a static image and a video frame.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the deep convolution neural network comprises an n-dimensional deep convolution neural network and the classification model comprises n-dimensional filters.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, where n is equal to 3.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein applying the classification model to the augmented version of the original image further comprises: producing, by the deep convolution neural network, 3D-convolution layers; and pooling, by the deep convolution neural network, the 3D convolution layers.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, further comprising: training, by the one or more processors, the classification model, wherein the training comprises: selecting, by the one or more processors, a group of diverse images, wherein each image of the group has a known classification; applying, by the one or more processors, the number of filters to each image of group to generate, for each image of the group, a respective group of filtered images; stacking, by the one or more processors, each image of the group with the respective group of filtered images for the image in a new three dimensional array comprising an augmented version of each image; individually providing, by the one or more processors, each image of the group to a deep convolution neural network, wherein the deep convolution neural network classifies each image based on producing convolution layers comprising the classification model and pooling, the convolution layers; individually obtaining, by the one or more processors, the classifications each image of the group; for each image of the group, comparing, by the one or more processors, the classification to the known classification; and updating, by the one or more processors, the model, based on the comparing.
17. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein applying the number of filters comprises preserving, by the one or more processors, dimensions of the original image in the filtered images.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the original image comprises original dimensions, and wherein the stacking comprises scaling the filtered images to have the original dimensions.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein each filter is selected from the group consisting of: Laplacian, thresholding, canny edge detection, median blur, Gaussian blur, difference of median, difference of Gaussian, contours on canny edge detection, and average object, and where each filter is unique.
20. A system comprising: a memory; one or more processors in communication with the memory; program instructions executable by the one or more processors via the memory to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining, by the one or more processors, an original image; applying, by the one or more processors, a number of filters to the original image to generate a group of filtered images, wherein a respective filtered image, produced utilizing each filter, comprises the group of filtered images; stacking, by the one or more processors, the original image with the filtered images in a three dimensional array, the stack comprising a number of layers, wherein the number of filters is one number fewer than the number of layers, each layer of the number of layers of the stack comprises a separate filtered image or the original image, and wherein the three dimensional array comprises an augmented version of the original image; facilitating, by the one or more processors, classification of the original image by a deep convolution neural network by providing the augmented version of the original image to the deep convolution neural network, and wherein the deep convolution neural network classifies the original image based on applying a classification model to the augmented version of the original image; and obtaining, by the one or more processors, the classification of the original image from the deep convolution neural network.
</claims>
</document>
