<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/20,G06T7/194,H04N13/122,H04N13/15,H04N13/359,H04N13/383
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, TIANYUE
DENG, WEI
MA, XITONG
LI, XIANZHEN
GENG, LIHUA
GUAN, ENHUI
LI, ZHICHAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67011859
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY METHOD, DISPLAY DEVICE, ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A display method, a display device, an electronic equipment, and a computer readable storage medium are disclosed. The display method is suitable for a display device, and the display device is configured to display in a first display mode and in a second display mode. The display method includes: obtaining user image information; determining whether a user is currently in a fatigue state based on the user image information; and switching the display device from the second display mode to the first display mode and allowing the display device to display in the first display mode if the user is currently in the fatigue state. The first display mode is different from the second display mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display method, suitable for a display device, wherein the display device is configured to display in a first display mode and in a second display mode, and the display method comprises: obtaining user image information; determining whether a user is currently in a fatigue state based on the user image information; and switching the display device from the second display mode to the first display mode and allowing the display device to display in the first display mode if the user is currently in the fatigue state, wherein the first display mode is different from the second display mode.
2. The display method according to claim 1, wherein obtaining the user image information comprises: collecting image data comprising the user image information; and extracting the user image information from the image data.
3. The display method according to claim 1, wherein subsequent to switching the display device from the second display mode to the first display mode and allowing the display device to display in the first display mode, the display method further comprises: performing visual processing on a display image in the first display mode; and allowing the display device to display a visually processed display image.
4. The display method according to claim 3, wherein performing visual processing on the display image in the first display mode comprises: blurring a background image in the display image to obtain a display image of which the background image is blurred; and allowing the display device to display the visually processed display image comprises: allowing the display device to display the display image of which the background image is blurred.
5. The display method according to claim 4, wherein blurring the background image in the display image comprises at least one of: uniformly blurring the background image, and progressively blurring the background image.
6. The display method according to claim 5, wherein blurring the background image in the display image further comprises: extracting the background image from the display image; wherein extracting the background image from the display image comprises: extracting a foreground image from the display image by using a matting algorithm; constructing an image mask according to the foreground image; performing Gaussian filtering on the image mask to obtain an image mask with edge transition; and extracting the background image from the display image by using the image mask with edge transition.
7. The display method according to claim 5, wherein progressively blurring the background image comprises: constructing a proportionality coefficient centering on a center point of the foreground image in the display image, calculating a diffusion coefficient according to the proportionality coefficient, and performing variable radius Gaussian blurring on the background image according to the diffusion coefficient, wherein variation of the diffusion coefficient is that the further away from the center point of the foreground image in the display image, the greater the diffusion coefficient, the greater a blurring degree of the background image.
8. The display method according to claim 3, wherein performing visual processing on the display image in the first display mode comprises: enhancing the foreground image in the display image.
9. The display method according to claim 8, wherein enhancing the foreground image in the display image comprises: performing advancing color processing on the foreground image in the display image.
10. The display method according to claim 1, wherein determining whether the user is currently in the fatigue state based on the user image information comprises: calculating, based on the user image information, a blink frequency of the user in a predetermined time interval, a pupil distance of the user, and length of time when the user gazes at the display image; and determining whether the user is currently in the fatigue state based on the blink frequency of the user in the predetermined time interval, the pupil distance of the user, and the length of time when the user gazes at the display image.
11. The display method according to claim 1, further comprising: switching the display device from the first display mode to the second display mode and allowing the display device to display in the second display mode if the user currently changes from the fatigue state to a non-fatigue state.
12. The display method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining whether a current display mode of the display device is the second display mode; wherein switching the display device from the second display mode to the first display mode and allowing the display device to display in the first display mode if the user is currently in the fatigue state comprises: switching the display device from the second display mode to the first display mode and allowing the display device to display in the first display mode if the user is currently in the fatigue state and the current display mode is the second display mode.
13. The display method according to claim 1, wherein the first display mode is a two-dimensional display mode, and the second display mode is a three-dimensional display mode.
14. A display device, comprising an image sensor, a controller, and a display panel: wherein the image sensor is on a side, facing a user, of the display device, and is configured to collect image data comprising user image information; the controller is configured to extract the user image information from the image data, determine whether the user is currently in a fatigue state based on the user image information, and send a first display mode switching instruction to the display panel if the user is currently in the fatigue state; and the display panel is configured to display in a plurality of display modes, and the plurality of display modes comprise a first display mode.
15. The display device according to claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to blur a background image in a display image in the first display mode to obtain a display image of which the background image is blurred; and the display panel is configured to display the display image of which the background image is blurred.
16. The display device according to claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to enhance a foreground image in a display image in the first display mode to obtain a display image of which the foreground image is enhanced; and the display panel is configured to display the display image of which the foreground image is enhanced.
17. The display device according to claim 14, wherein the controller is configured to: calculate, based on the user image information, a blink frequency of the user in a predetermined time interval, a pupil distance of the user, and length of time when the user gazes at the display device; and determine whether the user is currently in the fatigue state based on the blink frequency of the user in the predetermined time interval, the pupil distance of the user, and the length of time when the user gazes at the display device.
18. The display device according to claim 14, wherein the plurality of display modes further comprise a second display mode, and the second display mode is different from the first display mode; and the controller is further configured to send a second display mode switching instruction to the display panel if the user currently changes from the fatigue state to a non-fatigue state.
19. The display device according to claim 18, wherein the first display mode is a two-dimensional display mode, and the second display mode is a three-dimensional display mode; and the first display mode switching instruction is an instruction to switch the display device from the three-dimensional display mode to the two-dimensional display mode, and the second display mode switching instruction is an instruction to switch the display device from the two-dimensional display mode to the three-dimensional display mode.
20. An electronic equipment, comprising: at least one processor, and a memory in communication connection to the at least one processor, wherein the memory stores instructions executable by the at least one processor, and the instructions are executed by the at least one processor to allow the at least one processor to perform the display method according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
