<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/38,G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRICON TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG YAO
WANG BINGRUI
LIU SHAOLI
CHEN, TIANSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65436282
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROCESSING DEVICE AND RELATED PRODUCTS
</title>

<abstract>
A matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method and a processing device for performing the same are provided. The matrix-multiplying-matrix method includes distributing, by a main processing circuit, basic data blocks of one matrix and broadcasting the other matrix to a plurality of the basic processing circuits. That way, the basic processing circuits can perform inner-product operations between the basic data blocks and the broadcasted matrix in parallel. The results are then provided back to main processing circuit for combining. The technical solutions proposed by the present disclosure provide short operation time and low energy consumption.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method performed by a processing device, wherein the processing device comprises a main processing circuit and a plurality of basic processing circuits, and the method comprises: receiving, by the main processing circuit, a matrix A, a matrix B, and a multiplication instruction A*B; dividing, by the main processing circuit, the matrix A into M basic data blocks; distributing, by the main processing circuit, the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits; broadcasting, by the main processing circuit, the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits; performing, by the plurality of basic processing circuits, inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the matrix B to obtain a plurality of processing results; providing, by the plurality of basic processing circuits, the plurality of processing results to the main processing circuit; and combining, by the main processing circuit, the plurality of processing results to obtain a computation result of the multiplication instruction.
2. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein distributing the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits includes: distributing the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits non-repetitively in an arbitrary order.
3. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein broadcasting the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits further includes broadcasting, by the main processing circuit, first α columns of the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits, wherein performing the inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the matrix B further includes performing, by the plurality of basic processing circuits, the inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the first α columns of the matrix B to obtain a plurality of first-processing results.
4. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 3, wherein broadcasting the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits further includes broadcasting, by the main processing circuit, next β columns of the matrix B after the first α columns to the plurality of basic processing circuits, and wherein performing the inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the matrix B further includes performing, by the plurality of basic processing circuits, inner-products operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the next β columns of the matrix B to obtain a plurality of second-processing results.
5. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 4, wherein combining the plurality of processing results further include combining, by the main processing circuit, the plurality of first-processing results and the second-processing results to obtain a the computation result of the multiplication instruction.
6. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein a number of the plurality of basic processing circuits is K, wherein distributing the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits includes: if M>K, distributing, by the main processing circuit, one or more of the M basic data blocks to each basic processing circuit; and if M≤K, distributing, by the main processing circuit, one of the M basic data blocks to each basic processing circuit.
7. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein the processing device further includes branch processing circuits configured to connect the main processing circuit to the plurality of basic processing circuits, and the method further includes: transmitting, by the branch processing circuits, data among the main processing circuit and the plurality of basic processing circuits.
8. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein the main processing circuit includes one or any combination of a vector arithmetic unit circuit, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) circuit, an accumulator circuit, a matrix transposition circuit, a direct memory access (DMA) circuit, and a data rearrangement circuit.
9. The matrix-multiplying-matrix operation method of claim 1, wherein each of the basic processing circuits includes one or both of an inner-product arithmetic unit circuit and an accumulator circuit.
10. A processing device comprising a main processing circuit and a plurality of basic processing circuits, wherein the main processing circuit is configured to: receive a matrix A, a matrix B, and a multiplication instruction A*B; divide the matrix A into M basic data blocks; distribute the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits; and broadcast the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits, wherein the plurality of basic processing circuits are configured to: perform inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the matrix B to obtain a plurality of processing results; and provide the plurality of processing results to the main processing circuit, wherein the main processing circuit is further configured to combine the plurality of processing results to obtain a computation result of the multiplication instruction.
11. The processing device of claim 10, wherein the main processing circuit is configured to distribute the M basic data blocks to the plurality of basic processing circuits non-repetitively in an arbitrary order.
12. The processing device of claim 10, wherein the main processing circuit is configured to broadcast first α columns of the matrix B to the plurality of basic processing circuits, the plurality of basic processing circuits are configured to perform the inner-product operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the first α columns of the matrix B to obtain a plurality of first-processing results, and send the plurality of first-processing results to the main processing circuit.
13. The processing device of claim 12, wherein the main processing circuit is configured to broadcast next β columns of the matrix B after the first α columns to the plurality of basic processing circuits, the plurality of basic processing circuits are configured to perform inner-products operations in parallel on the basic data blocks and the next β columns of the matrix B to obtain a plurality of second-processing results, and send the plurality of second-processing results to the main processing circuit.
14. The processing device of claim 13, wherein the main processing circuit is configured to combine the plurality of first-processing results and the plurality of second-processing results to obtain the computation result of the multiplication instruction.
15. The processing device of claim 10, wherein a number of the plurality of basic processing circuits is K, if M>K, the main processing circuit is configured to distribute one or more of the M basic data blocks to each basic processing circuit; and if M≤K, the main processing circuit is configured to distribute one of the M basic data blocks to each basic processing circuit.
16. The processing device of claim 10, further comprising branch processing circuits configured to connect the main processing circuit to the plurality of basic processing circuits, and wherein the branch processing circuits are configured to: transmit data among the main processing circuit and the plurality of basic processing circuits.
17. The processing device of claim 16, wherein each branch processing circuit is connected between the main processing circuit and at least one of the basic processing circuits.
18. The processing device of claim 10, wherein the main processing circuit includes one or any combination of a vector arithmetic unit circuit, an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) circuit, an accumulator circuit, a matrix transposition circuit, a direct memory access (DMA) circuit, and a data rearrangement circuit.
19. The processing device of claim 10, wherein each of the basic processing circuits includes one or both of an inner-product arithmetic unit circuit and an accumulator circuit.
20. A computation device comprising the processing device of claim 10.
</claims>
</document>
