<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06N20/00,G16H10/60,G16H15/00,G16H50/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTERACTIVE DIGITAL SOLUTIONS
INTERACTIVE DIGITAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIAZ, SABASTIAN RICARDO
LUTHY, NICHOLAS
THOMPSON, BRICK
MCDONALD-SMITH, ALEX
LINDSAY, ALEX
REDDY, AKSHAY MANOHAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161639
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fall Risk Scoring System and Method
</title>

<abstract>
A system to evaluate the fall risk facing a patient and then adjust the care or observation toward that patient to minimize potential injury is provided. The system includes a fall risk scoring system which is based upon data collected from multiple inputs, including in-room data collection means and historical information. These scores are then updated continually and tracked, so additional knowledge and actions can be taken. Based upon the current scores, and historical scores, the system can then direct various adjustable and specific actions, with the goal of protecting the patient and minimizing injuries.
</abstract>

<claims>
The method and system is claimed as follows:
1. A method for determining the fall-risk potential of a patient comprising a host device configured to communicate with a plurality of data devices, each of the plurality of data devices providing data to the host device and wherein the host device is further configured to: (a) store patient-specific identification data in conjunction with gathering data from each of the data devices associated with that patient; (b) store the data from each device received in association with the patient; (c) store historical patient-specific health and related data relevant to a fall-risk score; (d) analyze the data from the devices and the historical data to create a fall-risk score for the patient, which is also stored; (e) at a later time, continue to analyze the data from the devices and applicable historical data to create additional fall-risk scores, which are also stored; (f) send the results of the analysis for additional processing to other modules; and (g) send the results, either before and after additional processing, to a user-interface for the user to apply or interact with the results and to adjust patient care as necessary; (h) continue the process starting with step (a) as additional data is gathered and additional adjustments are made.
2. A method of claim 1, wherein the data devices provide digital video and audio data.
3. A method of claim 1, wherein the additional processing includes algorithmic interpretation.
4. A method of claim 1, wherein the additional processing includes machine learning and deep learning predictions.
5. A System for monitoring patients comprising: a) a means to control a data collection source which can then obtain digital data regarding a patient's activities and status and to send said data to a data source module and user interface; b) a means to control a data collection source which can then obtain digital data regarding an observer's activities and status and to send said data to a data source module and user interface as well as third-parties; c) a means to obtain digital data regarding a patient's historical health information and to send said data to a data source module and to also send it to a user interface for interaction; d) a data source module containing various initial processing capabilities and a data assessment module, for more intense processing, including algorithmic and machine learning/deep learning processes, which results in a patient fall-risk score, and a means to send the results thereof to other processes contained in the modules and to a user interface; e) a user interface for an observer to see data transmitted thereto and to interact with data and input data and document changes necessary to adjust patient care and treatment and to operate the system.
6. The System of claim 5 wherein the digital data consists of video and audio data.
7. The System of claim 5 wherein the control of the data collection source is related to a video camera and the controls allows manual movement, auto-tracking of persons, smart-tracking and zoom-to-face.
8. The System of claim 5 wherein the processing capabilities include the ability for motion detection and contextual analysis, with the ability to trigger certain actions given the results via the user interface, or for additional processing.
9. The System of claim 5 further comprising control of the data collection source by remote browser control or application programming interface ("API") control for common commands.
10. The System of claim 5 further comprising a means of communication, including video, audio or digital, between the patient and/or the observer and/or third-parties.
11. The System of claim 5 further comprising control of the data collection source by remote browser control or application programming interface ("API") control for common commands.
12. The System of claim 5 further comprising processing of video data related to the observer, including motion detection and facial recognition, to determine an attentiveness score, which could dictate additional actions by the observer or notice and action by third-parties.
13. The System of claim 5 further comprising processing of video data of both patients and observers using facial recognition with density weighted motion detection, to dictate additional actions by the observer or notice and action by third-parties.
14. The System of claim 5 further comprising the ability to generate still-photos from the video data either at certain prescribed times determined or programmed into the system or manually by the observer, which can then be saved or used for additional processing and determination of additional actions.
15. The System of claim 5 further comprising processing of audio data related to creating an audio profile of the area where the patient is located in order to filter out ambient noise so clearer attention can be given to the non-ambient noise in the area, in order to more easily hear when a patient has a medical need.
16. A System for monitoring patients comprising: a) a means to observe multiple patients at the same time using one user interface with one observer; b) a means to control a data collection source which can then obtain digital data regarding a patient's activities and status and to send said data to a data source module and user interface; c) a means to control a data collection source which can then obtain digital data regarding an observer's activities and status and to send said data to a data source module and user interface as well as third-parties; d) a means to obtain digital data regarding a patient's historical health information and to send said data to a data source module and to also send it to a user interface for interaction; e) a data source module containing various initial processing capabilities and a data assessment module, for more intense processing, including algorithmic and machine learning/deep learning processes, which results in a patient fall-risk score, and a means to send the results thereof to other processes contained in the modules and to a user interface; f) a user interface for an observer to see data transmitted thereto and to interact with data and input data and document changes necessary to adjust patient care and treatment and to operate the system.
17. The System of claim 16 wherein the means to observe multiple patients includes the ability to observe all of them at the same time or to zoom onto one patient, while still maintaining data streams to the user interface from the other patients.
18. The System of claim 16 wherein the digital data consists of video and audio data.
19. The System of claim 16 wherein the control of the data collection source is related to a video camera and the controls allows manual movement, auto-tracking of persons, smart-tracking and zoom-to-face.
20. The System of claim 16 wherein the processing capabilities include the ability for motion detection and contextual analysis, with the ability to trigger certain actions given the results via the user interface, or for additional processing.
21. The System of claim 16 further comprising control of the data collection source by remote browser control or application programming interface ("API") control for common commands.
22. The System of claim 16 further comprising a means of communication, including video, audio or digital, between the patient and/or the observer and/or third-parties.
23. The System of claim 16 further comprising control of the data collection source by remote browser control or application programming interface ("API") control for common commands.
24. The System of claim 16 further comprising processing of video data related to the observer, including motion detection and facial recognition, to determine an attentiveness score, which could dictate additional actions by the observer or notice and action by third-parties.
25. The System of claim 16 further comprising processing of video data of both patients and observers using facial recognition with density weighted motion detection, to dictate additional actions by the observer or notice and action by third-parties.
26. The System of claim 16 further comprising the ability to generate still-photos from the video data either at certain prescribed times determined or programmed into the system or manually by the observer, which can then be saved or used for additional processing and determination of additional actions.
27. The System of claim 16 further comprising processing of audio data related to creating an audio profile of the area where the patient is located in order to filter out ambient noise so clearer attention can be given to the non-ambient noise in the area, in order to more easily hear when a patient has a medical need.
</claims>
</document>
