<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/25,G06F16/28,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ISAAK, DONOVAN A.
KHOLODKOV, Dmitry V.
GILBERT, Mark R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70476319
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VISUAL REPRESENTATION OF DIRECTIONAL CORRELATION OF SERVICE HEALTH
</title>

<abstract>
A system for generating proportional diagrams. The system includes a user interface, a memory for storing executable program code, and one or more electronic processors. The electronic processors are functionally coupled to the memory and the user interface. The electronic processors are configured to receive a dataset from one or more servers, wherein the dataset comprises software service health data. The electronic processors are further configured to remove extraneous data from the dataset, extract relevant data points from the dataset, and determine one or more relational data strings within the extracted relevant data points. The electronic processors are also configured to determine a frequency of occurrence for each of the extracted relevant data points within the dataset, and generate the proportional relationship diagram by plotting the relevant data points, wherein the relevant data points are plotted based on the determined relational data string and the determine frequency of occurrence.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating proportional relationship diagrams, the system comprising: a user interface; a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more electronic processors, functionally coupled to the memory and the user interface, the one or more electronic processors configured to: receive a dataset from one or more servers, wherein the dataset comprises software service health data; remove extraneous data from the dataset; extract relevant data points from the dataset, wherein the relevant data points are word bigrams; determine one or more relational data strings within the extracted relevant data points, wherein the relational data strings comprise two or more related word bigrams; determine a frequency of occurrence for each of the extracted relevant data points within the dataset; and generate the proportional relationship diagram by plotting the relevant data points, wherein the relevant data points are plotted based on the determined relational data strings and the determined frequency of occurrence.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the received dataset comprises words and symbols.
3. (canceled)
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the extraneous data is one or more of an article, a preposition, a symbol, and a curse word.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein plotting the relevant data points comprises generating a connection indicator between each word of the word bigram, and between the relational data strings, and further wherein the connection indicator is configured to indicate the frequency of occurrence of the relevant data points.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the connection indicator is a directional line having a thickness, wherein the thickness is based on the determined frequency of occurrence.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the electronic processors are configured to determine the relational data strings based on identifying words that are within n-spaces of each other within the data set, wherein n≥1.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the proportional relationship diagram is generated based on one or more parameters provided to the system via the user interface.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more parameters comprise one or more of a date range, a time range, and a geographical location.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more electronic processors are further configured to export the generated proportional relationship diagram, wherein the exported proportional relationship diagram is exported as one or more of an image file and an interactive dataset.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to remove extracted relevant data points based on determining that the frequency of occurrence of the extracted relevant data points is below a predetermined threshold.
12. A method for generating proportional relationship diagrams within a user interface of a computing device, the method comprising: receiving, at the computing device, a dataset from one or more servers, wherein the dataset comprises software service health data; removing, via the computing device, extraneous data from the dataset; extracting, via the computing device, relevant data points from the dataset, wherein the relevant data points are word bigrams; determining, via the computing device, one or more relational data strings within the extracted relevant data points, wherein the relational data strings comprise two or more related word bigrams; determining, via the computing device, a frequency of occurrence for each of the extracted relevant data points within the dataset; and generating, via the computing device, a proportional relationship diagram for display on the user interface by plotting the relevant data points, wherein the relevant data points are plotted based on the determined relational data strings and the determined frequency of occurrence.
13. (canceled)
14. The method of claim 12, wherein plotting the relevant data points comprises generating a connection indicator between each word of the word bigram, and between the relational data strings, and further wherein the connection indicator is configured to indicate the frequency of occurrence of the relevant data points.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the connection indicator is a directional line having a thickness, wherein the thickness is based on the determined frequency of occurrence.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the electronic processors are configured to determine the relational data strings based on identifying words that are within n-spaces of each other within the data set, wherein n≥1.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the extraneous data is one or more of an article, a preposition, a symbol, and a curse word.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the proportional relationship diagram is generated based on one or more parameters provided to the system via the user interface, the one or more parameters comprising one or more of a date range, a time range, and a geographical origin of the data within the received dataset.
19. A system for generating proportional relationship diagrams for software service data, the system comprising: a user interface; a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more electronic processors, functionally coupled to the memory and the user interface, the one or more electronic processors configured to: receive a dataset from one or more servers, wherein the dataset comprises software service data; remove extraneous data from the dataset; extract relevant data points from the remaining data in the dataset, wherein the relevant data points include word bigrams; determine one or more relational data strings within the extracted relevant data points, wherein the relational data strings comprise two or more related word bigrams; determine a frequency of occurrence for each of the extracted relevant data points within the dataset; remove extracted relevant data points based on determining that the frequency of occurrence of the extracted relevant data points is below a predetermined threshold; generate the proportional relationship diagram based on one or more parameters provided to the system via the user interface by plotting the relevant data points, wherein the relevant data points are plotted based on the determined relational data strings and the determined frequency of occurrence; and export the generated proportional relationship diagram, wherein the exported proportional relationship diagram is exported as one or more of an image file and an interactive dataset.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the one or more parameters comprise one or more of a date range, a time range, and a geographical location.
</claims>
</document>
