<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04M3/42,H04M3/51,H04M7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SLACK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
APTHORP, JEREMY
Foley, Devin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190760
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing Telephone Based Channel Communication In A Group-Based Communication System
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for facilitating messaging in a group-based communication system between a calling device and one or more client devices. A first user operating a calling device may send a request to a call server computing device to send a call-based communication via the group-based communication system. The call-based communication may include voice or textual data. The call server computing device may receive the call-based communication and may format the call-based communication to send to the group-based communication system. The call server may send the formatted call-based communication to the group-based communication system for presentation via the one or more client devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed is:
1. A call server computing device comprising: one or more processors; and computer readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the call server computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a calling device associated with a first user, a request to send a call-based communication via a communication channel of a communication platform; generating an action event data structure based at least in part on the request; generating one or more call objects based at least in part on the communication channel and the action event data structure; and sending the one or more call objects to a group-based communication server computing device associated with the communication platform, wherein the one or more call objects cause a publication of the call-based communication via the communication channel.
2. The call server computing device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: identifying, based at least in part on metadata associated with the request, calling device data associated with the calling device; comparing the calling device data to authorized calling device data stored in a datastore to determine whether the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform; and generating the one or more call objects further based at least in part on a determination that the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform.
3. The call server computing device of claim 2, wherein the calling device data comprises at least one of: a telephone number associated with the calling device; or an equipment identifier associated with the calling device.
4. The call server computing device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the group-based communication server computing device, a message associated with the communication channel; generating a textual fragment or a voice fragment representing the message; and transmitting the textual fragment or the voice fragment representing the message to the calling device.
5. The call server computing device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving a signal representing speech data that is associated with the call-based communication; transcribing the signal to identify an action event representation; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the action event representation.
6. The call server computing device of claim 5, wherein the action event representation comprises one or more voice fragments to be converted to text and rendered as a message via the communication channel.
7. The call server computing device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the group-based communication server computing device and based at least in part on the indication, a join call request originating from a client device, wherein the client device is associated with the communication channel and the join call request comprises a request to join the call; and providing the client device with access to the call.
8. The call server computing device of claim 7, wherein providing the client device with access to the call comprises: sending, to the group-based communication server computing device, a link associated with the call to be rendered on the client device, wherein the link enables the client device to access the call; or generating a first connection between the call server computing device and the client device, the first connection being based at least in part on a telephone number associated with client device; and linking the first connection to a second connection between the call server computing device and the calling device, the second connection being representative of the call.
9. The call server computing device of claim 1, wherein the call-based communication comprises a text message, and wherein generating the action event data structure comprises: receiving a signal representing textual data that is associated with the call-based communication; parsing the text message to determine one or more textual fragments to be rendered on a client device, the client device being associated with the communication channel; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the one or more textual fragments.
10. A method, implemented at least in part by a call server computing device, comprising: receiving, from a calling device associated with a first user, a request to send a call-based communication via a communication channel of a communication platform; generating an action event data structure based at least in part on the request; generating one or more call objects based at least in part on the communication channel and the action event data structure; and sending the one or more call objects to a group-based communication server computing device associated with the communication platform, wherein the one or more call objects cause a publication of the call-based communication via the communication channel.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying, based at least in part on metadata associated with the request, calling device data associated with the calling device; comparing the calling device data to authorized calling device data stored in a datastore to determine whether the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform; and generating the one or more call objects further based at least in part on a determination that the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the group-based communication server computing device, a message associated with the communication channel; generating a textual fragment or a voice fragment representing the message; and transmitting the textual fragment or the voice fragment representing the message to the calling device.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a signal representing speech data that is associated with the call-based communication; transcribing the signal to identify an action event representation; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the action event representation.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the call-based communication comprises a text message, and wherein generating the action event data structure comprises: receiving a signal representing textual data that is associated with the call-based communication; parsing the text message to determine one or more textual fragments to be rendered on a client device, the client device being associated with the communication channel; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the one or more textual fragments.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the group-based communication server computing device and based at least in part on the indication, a join call request originating from a client device, wherein the client device is associated with the communication channel and the join call request comprises a request to join the call; and performing at least one of: sending, to the group-based communication server computing device, a link associated with the call to be rendered on the client device, wherein the link enables the client device to access the call; or generating a first connection between the call server computing device and the client device, the first connection being based at least in part on a telephone number associated with client device; and linking the first connection to a second connection between the call server computing device and the calling device, the second connection being representative of the call.
16. One or more non-transitory computer readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a call server computing device, cause the call server computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a calling device associated with a first user, a request to send a call-based communication via a communication channel of a communication platform; generating an action event data structure based at least in part on the request; generating one or more call objects based at least in part on the communication channel and the action event data structure; and sending the one or more call objects to a group-based communication server computing device associated with the communication platform, wherein the one or more call objects cause a publication of the call-based communication via the communication channel.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 16, the operations further comprising: identifying, based at least in part on metadata associated with the request, calling device data associated with the calling device; comparing the calling device data to authorized calling device data stored in a datastore to determine whether the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform; and generating the one or more call objects further based at least in part on a determination that the calling device is authorized to communicate via the communication platform.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 16, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the group-based communication server computing device, a message associated with the communication channel; generating a textual fragment or a voice fragment representing the message; and transmitting the textual fragment or the voice fragment representing the message to the calling device.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 16, wherein generating the action event data structure comprises: receiving a signal representing speech data associated with the call-based communication; transcribing the signal to identify an action event representation; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the action event representation.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 16, wherein the call-based communication comprises a text message, and wherein generating the action event data structure comprises: receiving a signal representing textual data that is associated with the call-based communication; parsing the text message to determine one or more textual fragments to be rendered on a client device, the client device being associated with the communication channel; and generating the action event data structure based at least in part on the one or more textual fragments.
</claims>
</document>
