<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/07,G10L15/183,G10L17/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
I2X
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, SAMUEL FRANK JET
FEINAUER, CHRISTOPH JOHANN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR ACCENT AND DIALECT MODIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for accent and dialect modification are disclosed. Discussed are a method for selecting a target dialect and accent to use to modify voice communications based on a context and a method for selectively modifying one or more words in voice communications in one dialect and accent with one or more vocal features of a different accent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of selectively modifying one or more words in voice communications in one dialect and accent with one or more vocal features of a different accent, the method comprising: (a) detecting, by a device, a first dialect and a first accent of one or more words in voice communications of a first participant of a plurality of participants participating in the voice communications, the voice communications of the first participant is received by the device and to be communicated via a communication channel to a communication device of a second participant of the plurality of participants; (b) identifying, by the device, a target accent to selectively modify the one or more words in the voice communications in the first accent to the target accent; (c) modifying, by the device, one or more vocal features of the voice communications of the one or more words in the first accent to a corresponding one or more vocal features of the target accent; and (d) communicating, by the device, the voice communications comprising the modified one or more words via the communication channel to the communication device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) further comprises selecting the target accent based on a context for the voice communications.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the context comprises one or more of the following: a type of a call, a selected outcome for the call, an industry associated with the call, a geography associated with the call and an age associated with the call.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) further comprises selecting the target accent based on the context and one of a second dialect or a second accent of voice communications of the second participant.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprising modifying the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first accent to be pronounced in the target accent.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) further comprises identifying a target dialect to selectively modify the one or more words.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein (c) further comprising modifying the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first dialect to be pronounced in the target dialect.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein (c) further comprising modifying the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first dialect to be replaced with one or more words in the target dialect.
9. A system for selectively modifying one or more words in voice communications in one dialect and accent with one or more vocal features of a different accent, the system comprising: a device comprising one or more processors, coupled to memory and configured to detect a first dialect and a first accent of one or more words in voice communications of a first participant of a plurality of participants participating in the voice communications, wherein the voice communications of the first participant is received by the device and to be communicated via a communication channel to a communication device of a second participant of the plurality of participants; wherein the device is configured to: identify a target accent to selectively modify the one or more words in the voice communications in the first accent to the target accent; modify one or more vocal features of the voice communications of the one or more words in the first accent to a corresponding one or more vocal features of the target accent; and communicate the voice communications comprising the modified one or more words via the communication channel to the communication device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the device is further configured to select the target accent based on a context for the voice communications.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the context comprises one or more of the following: a type of a call, an outcome for the call, an industry associated with the call, a geography associated with the call and an age associated with the call.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the device is further configured to select the target accent based on a context and one of a second dialect or a second accent of voice communications of the second participant.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the device is further configured to modify the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first accent to be pronounced in the target accent.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the device is further configured to identify a target dialect to selectively modify the one or more words.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the device is further configured to modify the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first dialect to be one of pronounced in the target dialect or replaced with one or more words in the target dialect.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing program instructions for causing one or more processors to: detect a first dialect and a first accent of one or more words in voice communications of a first participant of a plurality of participants participating in the voice communications, wherein the voice communications of the first participant is received by the device and to be communicated via a communication channel to a communication device of a second participant of the plurality of participants; wherein the program instructions cause the one or more processors to: identify a target accent to selectively modify the one or more words in the voice communications in the first accent to the target accent; modify one or more vocal features of the voice communications of the one or more words in the first accent to a corresponding one or more vocal features of the target accent; and communicate the voice communications comprising the modified one or more words via the communication channel to the communication device.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to select the target accent based on a context for the voice communications.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to select the target accent based on a context and one of a second dialect or a second accent of voice communications of the second participant.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to identify a target dialect to selectively modify the one or more words.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the program instructions further cause the one or more processors to modify the voice communications comprising the one or more words in the first dialect to be one of pronounced in the target dialect or replaced with one or more words in the target dialect.
</claims>
</document>
