<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0452,A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06T7/00,G06T7/73,G16H30/20,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIE MEDICAL IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABEN, JEAN-PAUL
KOEHN, DENNIS
MA, HUA
VAN WALSUM, THEO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69165376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Dynamic Coronary Roadmapping
</title>

<abstract>
Methods are provided for dynamically visualizing information in image data of an object of interest of a patient, which include an offline phase and an online phase. In the offline phase, first image data of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent is obtained with an interventional device is present in the first image data. The first image data is used to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest. A plurality of reference locations of the device in the first image data is determined, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps. In the online phase, live image data of the object of interest acquired without a contrast agent is obtained with the device present in the live image data, and a roadmap is selected from the plurality of roadmaps. A location of the device in the live image data is determined. The reference location of the device corresponding to the selected roadmap and the location of the device in the live image data is used to transform the selected roadmap to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest. A visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is overlaid on the live image data for display. In embodiments, the first image data of the offline phase covers different of phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient, and the plurality of roadmaps generated in the offline phase covers the different phases of the patient's cardiac cycle. Related systems and program storage devices are also described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating an image of an object of interest of a patient, comprising: i) obtaining first image data of the object of interest, wherein the first image data is acquired with a contrast agent and a device is present in the first image data, the device being used in a procedure to treat the object of interest; ii) using the first image data to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iii) determining a plurality of reference locations of the device in the first image data, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iv) obtaining second image data of the object of interest, wherein the second image data is acquired without a contrast agent and the device is present in the second image data; v) selecting a roadmap from the plurality of roadmaps; vi) determining a location of the device in the second image data; vii) using the reference location of the device corresponding to the roadmap selected in v) and the location of the device determined in vi) to transform the roadmap selected in v) to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest; and viii) overlaying a visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in vii) on the second image data for display.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the first image data covers at least one cardiac cycle of the patient; and the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest as generated in ii) covers different phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein: the phases of the cardiac cycle of the patient are offset in time relative to a predefined reference part of the cardiac cycle of the patient.
4. A method according to claim 2, further comprising: acquiring an ECG signal while acquiring the second image data, and processing the ECG signal to determine a phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient that corresponds to the second image data; and selecting the roadmap in v) by matching the phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for the second image data to the phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for the selected roadmap.
5. A method according to claim 4, further comprising: processing the first image data to determine a phase of the cardiac cycle of the patient for an image frame and associating the phase of the cardiac cycle to a roadmap corresponding to the image frame.
6. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest comprise a plurality of three-dimensional roadmaps.
7. A method according to claim 6, wherein: the plurality of three-dimensional roadmaps are derived from a three-dimensional model of the object of interest.
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein: the three-dimensional model of the object of interest is extracted from at least one image modality selected from the group consisting of computed tomography (CT), X-ray rotational angiography, 3D Ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
9. A method according to claim 6, wherein: the plurality of three-dimensional roadmaps are derived from two X-ray angiographic image sequences of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent.
10. A method according to claim 6, wherein: the plurality of three-dimensional roadmaps are derived from a three-dimensional model of the object of interest and at least one X-ray angiographic image sequence of the object of interest acquired with a contrast agent.
11. A method according to claim 10, wherein: the three-dimensional model of the object of interest is extracted from at least one image modality selected from the group consisting of computed tomography (CT), X-ray rotational angiography, 3D Ultrasound, or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
12. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps include information that characterizes properties (such as centerlines, contours and/or image mask) of the object of interest.
13. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of roadmaps include at least one measurement for the object of interest selected from the group consisting of location and extent of vessel obstruction, diameter and area, pressure, blood velocity, fractional flow reserve, wall shear stress, vessel curvature, amount of foreshortening, location and extent and type of coronary plaque, location and extent of coronary total occlusion, or location and extent of coronary obstruction.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein: in vi), the location of the device in the second image data is determined using a Bayesian filtering method.
15. A method according to claim 14, wherein: the Bayesian filtering method employs a deep learning network to estimate likelihood of the location of the device in the second image data; and/or the Bayesian filtering method equates location of the device to the weighted arithmetic mean of a plurality of positions and their associated weights; and/or the Bayesian filtering method resamples points around a position with a high weight value.
16. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the selection of the roadmap in v) is configured to compensate for cardiac motion.
17. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the operations of vii) apply a transformation to the roadmap selected in v) in order to compensate for motion between the first image data and the second image data.
18. A method according to claim 17, wherein: the motion includes breathing motion and/or cardiac motion and/or patient motion and/or table motion.
19. A method according to claim 17, wherein: the transformation comprises a rigid transformation or a non-rigid transformation to the roadmap selected in v) based on a displacement obtained from the reference location of the device corresponding to the roadmap selected in v) and the location of the device determined in vi).
20. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is generating by projecting the overlay of the dynamic roadmap onto the second image data using a transparent mode, and/or dilating the dynamic roadmap and projecting the boundaries of the resultant dynamic roadmap onto the second image data; whereby the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap is configured to not obscure any instrument used to treat the object of interest.
21. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the plurality of reference locations is stored as part of the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest.
22. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the roadmap selected in v) comprises a three-dimensional roadmap that is transformed to generate at least one dynamic roadmap for overlay on the second image data.
23. A method according to claim 22, wherein: the three-dimensional roadmap is transformed according to the viewpoint used to acquire the second image data.
24. A method according to claim 22, wherein: the second image data is acquired from a viewpoint different from the first image data.
25. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the roadmap selected in v) comprises a two-dimensional roadmap that is transformed to generate at least one dynamic roadmap for overlay on the second image data; and the first image data and the second image data are acquired from a common viewpoint.
26. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the first image is derived by subtraction of a baseline image; and the second image data is derived by subtraction of the baseline image.
27. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the first image data is angiographic image data acquired using an X-ray imaging modality with a contrast agent; and the second image data is fluoroscopic image data acquired using an X-ray imaging modality without a contrast agent.
28. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the operations of iv) to viii) are repeated for successive frames of a live image sequence acquired without a contrast agent.
29. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the device is selected from the group consisting of a guiding catheter, a guide wire, or other intraluminal device or instrument.
30. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the location of the device corresponds to a tip or end of the device.
31. A method according to claim 1, wherein: the object of interest comprises the heart, a part of the coronary tree, blood vessels or other part of the vasculature.
32. A method according to claim 1, further comprising: displaying the overlay of the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest on the second image data.
33. A system for generating an image of an object of interest of a patient, comprising: at least one processor that, when executing program instructions stored in memory, is configured to i) obtain first image data of the object of interest, wherein the first image data is acquired with a contrast agent and a device is present in the first image data, the device being used in a procedure to treat the object of interest; ii) use the first image data to generate a plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iii) determine a plurality of reference locations of the device in the first image data, wherein the plurality of reference locations correspond to the plurality of roadmaps of the object of interest; iv) obtain second image data of the object of interest, wherein the second image data is acquired without a contrast agent and the device is present in the second image data; v) select a roadmap from the plurality of roadmaps; vi) determine a location of the device in the second image data; vii) use the reference location of the device corresponding to the roadmap selected in v) and the location of the device determined in vi) to transform the roadmap selected in v) to generate a dynamic roadmap of the object of interest; and viii) overlay a visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in vii) on the second image data for display.
34. A system according to claim 33, further comprising: an imaging acquisition subsystem configured to acquire the first image data and the second image data.
35. A system according to claim 34, wherein: the imaging acquisition subsystem uses an X-ray imaging modality.
36. A system according to claim 34, further comprising: a display subsystem configured to display the overlay of the visual representation of the dynamic roadmap of the object of interest as generated in viii) on the second image data.
37. A non-transitory program storage device tangibly embodying a program of instructions that are executable on a machine to carry out the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
