<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,B25J19/02,B25J9/00,B25J9/16,G06K9/00,G10L15/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, JI YOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74043285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT SYSTEM AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a robot system and a control method for the same. The robot includes a first server, a first robot registered on the first server and configured to deliver goods to a client according to information received from the first server, a second robot configured to receive the delivery goods from the first robot, and a second server having the second robot registered thereon and being configured to operate the second robot. The control method for the robot system may include: confirming, by the first robot, whether a person is present in a surrounding area of delivery destination; when someone is present, acquiring, by the first robot, voice information and image information of the present person and transferring the same to the second robot; transferring, by the second robot, the voice information and the image information of the person to the second server; recognizing, by the second server, a person from at least one of the voice information and the image information of the person transferred from the second robot, and transferring a recognition result to the second robot; confirming, by the second robot, whether the present person is a family member of the client, based on the recognition result of the person transferred from the second server; and when the present person is a family member, transferring, by the first robot, the delivery goods to the present person.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control method for a robot delivery system comprising: determining, via a first robot, whether a person is present at a surrounding area of a delivery destination, wherein the first robot is tasked with delivering a package to a client at the delivery destination; acquiring, via the first robot, at least voice information or image information of a present person based on a determination that the present person is present at the surrounding area of the delivery destination, transmitting the at least voice information or image information from the first robot to a second robot operating at the delivery destination; transmitting to a server, by the second robot, the at least voice information or image information; performing recognition, by the server, based on the at least voice information or image information received from the second robot; transmitting a recognition result from the server to the second robot; and confirming, by the second robot, whether the present person is a family member of the client based on the recognition result received from the server.
2. The control method of claim 1, further comprising delivering, by the first robot, the package to the present person when the present person is confirmed as a family member of the client by the second robot.
3. The control method of claim 1, wherein the server is configured to utilize an artificial intelligence module, wherein the artificial intelligence module is configured to determine a similarity between voice information received from the second robot with stored voice data and to output information of a corresponding person when a degree of similarity between the voice information and one of the stored voice data is greater than or equal to a set value.
4. The control method of claim 1, wherein the server is configured to utilize an artificial intelligence module, wherein the artificial intelligence module is configured to determine a similarity between image information received from the second robot with stored image data, and to output information of a corresponding person when a degree of similarity between the image information and one of the stored image data is greater than or equal to a set value.
5. The control method of claim 1, wherein when it is determined that no person is present at the surrounding area of the delivery destination, the method further comprises: transmitting, by the first robot: a request to the second robot to open a door lock of the delivery destination; and product information and arrival information of the package.
6. The control method of claim 5, further comprising: opening the door lock by the second robot in response to the request to open the door lock; transmitting, by the second robot, a notification to the client of the opening of the door lock; and delivering, by the first robot, the package to the client.
7. The control method of claim 1, wherein when it is confirmed that the present person is a family member or acquaintance of the client, the method further comprises transmitting, by the second robot, personal information of the present person to the client.
8. The control method of claim 1, wherein when the second robot confirms that the present person is not a family member or an acquaintance of the client, the method further comprises: transmitting, by the second robot, image information of the present person to the client; receiving, by the second robot, a response as to whether the present person is an acquaintance of the client; and receiving, by the second robot, information regarding a delivery option based on the response.
9. The control method of claim 8, wherein when the second robot confirms that the present person is an acquaintance of the client based on the received response, the method further comprises storing, by the second robot, information of the present person and transmitting a request to the server to store the information of the present person.
10. The control method of claim 8, wherein when the received information regarding the delivery option comprises a command to open a door lock of the delivery destination, the method further comprises: opening the door lock by the second robot; transmitting, by the second robot, a notification to the client of the opening of the door lock; and delivering, by the first robot, the package to the client.
11. The control method of claim 5, further comprising: opening the door lock, by the second robot, in response to the request to open the door lock; transmitting, by the second robot, a notification to a user terminal of the opening of the door lock, wherein the second robot is registered with the user terminal; and delivering, by the first robot, the package to the second robot or unloading the package at the delivery destination.
12. The control method of claim 1, wherein when the present person is confirmed as not being a family member of the client, the method further comprises determining, by the second robot, whether the client has requested in advance to be notified when a non-family person is present at the surrounding area of the delivery destination.
13. The control method of claim 12, wherein when it is determined that the client has not requested in advance to be notified, the method further comprises: transmitting, by the second robot, a request to the first robot to search the surrounding area of the delivery destination to determine again whether a person is still present at the surrounding area; and transmitting, by the first robot, additional voice information or additional image information of the surrounding area of the delivery destination to the second robot.
14. The control method of claim 13, further comprising: confirming, by the second robot, that no one is present at the surrounding area of the delivery destination based on the additional voice information or additional image information transmitted by the first robot; transmitting, by the first robot, a request to the second robot to open a door lock of the delivery destination and product information and arrival information of the package; delivering, by the first robot, the package to the second robot or unloading the package at the delivery destination; and transmitting, by the second robot, a notification to a user terminal of opening of the door lock and delivery of the package, wherein the second robot is registered with the user terminal.
15. The control method of claim 13, further comprising: confirming, by the second robot, that a person is still present at the surrounding area of the delivery destination based on the additional voice information or the additional image information transmitted by the first robot; transmitting, by the second robot, a request to the first robot to unload the package at another location; and transmit, by the second robot, a notification to a user terminal of delivery of the package to the another location, wherein the second robot is registered with the user terminal.
16. The control method of claim 12, wherein when it is determined that the client requested in advance to be notified, the method further comprises: transmitting, by the second robot, the at least image information of the present person to a user terminal, wherein the second robot is registered with the user terminal; determining, at the user terminal, whether the present person is an acquaintance of the client; and transmitting, by the user terminal, information to the second robot regarding a delivery option based on the determination of whether the present person is an acquaintance.
17. The control method of claim 16, further comprising transmitting, by the user terminal, requests to the second robot and the server to store information of the present person when it is determined that the present person is an acquaintance of the client.
</claims>
</document>
