<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/08,A61B5/11,A61B7/00,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOR RESEARCH APPLICATIONS
B. G. NEGEV TECHNOLOGIES AND APPLICATIONS LTD., AT BEN-GURION UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZIGEL, YANIV
TARASIUK, ARIEL
DAFNA, ELIRAN
BEN OR, DVIR
HALEVI, MATAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60951666
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATION OF SLEEP QUALITY PARAMETERS FROM WHOLE NIGHT AUDIO ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a system and method for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: obtaining an audio recorded signal comprising sleep sounds of a subject; segmenting the signal into epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors into a machine learning classifier and applying a preformed classifying model on the feature vectors that outputs a probabilities vector for each epoch, wherein each of the probabilities vectors comprises the probabilities of the epoch being each of the sleep quality parameters; inputting the probabilities vectors for each epoch into a machine learning time series model and applying a preformed sleep quality time series pattern function on said probabilities vectors that outputs an enhanced probabilities vector for each epoch; determining a final sleep quality parameter for each epoch by calculating the most probable sleep quality parameters sequence.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: obtaining an audio recorded signal comprising sleep sounds of a subject; segmenting the signal into epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors into a machine learning classifier and applying a preformed classifying model on the feature vectors that outputs a probabilities vector for each epoch, wherein each of the probabilities vectors comprises the probabilities of the epoch being each of the sleep quality parameters; inputting the probabilities vectors for each epoch into a machine learning time series model and applying a preformed sleep quality time series pattern function on said probabilities vectors that outputs an enhanced probabilities vector for each epoch; determining a final sleep quality parameter for each epoch by calculating the most probable sleep quality parameters sequence.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises carrying out a pre-processing stage comprising noise reduction of the signal.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises carrying out a breathing detection stage comprising categorizing portions of the signal as breathing and other portions of the signal as non-breathing.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more feature parameters are associated with a characteristic selected from the group consisting of breathing sound content, body movements, non-respiratory sounds and breathing pattern periodicity.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the one or more feature parameters comprise at least two feature parameters associated with at least two of the characteristics or comprise at least three feature parameters associated with at least three of the characteristics or comprise at least four feature parameters associated with at least four of the characteristics.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the one or more feature parameters are all associated with one of the characteristics.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the one characteristic is breathing sound content.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the one characteristic is body movements.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the one characteristic is non-respiratory sounds.
10. The method according to claim 6, wherein the one characteristic is breathing pattern periodicity.
11. The method according to claim 4, wherein the feature parameters associated with the breathing sound content characteristic are selected from the group consisting of Respiratory mean SNR feature, Respiratory Frequency centroid, ADmean 25, SuperSnore, and XcorrPeak; or wherein the feature parameters associated with the body movements characteristic are selected from the group consisting of Body movement percentage feature and Body movement likelihood feature; or wherein the feature parameters associated with the non-respiratory sounds characteristic are selected from the group consisting of Non-breathing percentage feature, Non-breathing 90% SNR feature and Non-breathing frequency centroid feature; or wherein the feature parameters associated with the breathing pattern periodicity characteristic are selected from the group consisting of Respiratory cycle duty feature, respiratory cycle period feature, respiratory cycle intensity feature and respiratory cycle consistency feature.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more feature parameters are each selected from the group consisting of respiratory cycle duty feature, respiratory cycle period feature, respiratory cycle intensity feature, respiratory cycle consistency feature, non-breathing percentage feature, respiratory mean SNR feature, respiratory frequency centroid feature, non-breathing 90% SNR feature, non-breathing frequency centroid feature, ADmean 25, SuperSnore and XcorrPeak.
13. The method according to claim 1, further comprising an initial stage of generating the preformed classifying model comprising: obtaining audio recorded signals comprising sleep sounds of a plurality of subjects; segmenting the signals into corresponding epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors of each subject into a machine learning classifier along with corresponding true result annotated sleeping scores; generating the preformed classifying model according to machine learning.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the preformed sleep quality time series pattern function is generated according to the following steps: inputting into a machine learning model a plurality of true result hypnograms divided into epochs, wherein each hypnogram comprises a sleep quality parameters result for each of its epochs; applying machine learning on said plurality of true result hypnograms taking into account the epoch time sequences, and the sleep quality parameters at each epoch time sequence.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sleep quality parameters are macro sleep stages selected from the group consisting of WAKE, REM and NREM.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the most probable sleep quality parameters sequence is carried out by using the Viterbi algorithm.
17. The method according to claim 1, further comprising an initial step of recording the audio signal.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sleep quality parameters are sleep-disordered breathing parameters selected from the group consisting of apnea, hypopnea and normal breathing.
19. A system for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor and configured to store program instructions executable by the processor to implement the method for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: obtaining an audio recorded signal comprising sleep sounds of a subject; segmenting the signal into epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors into a machine learning classifier and applying a preformed classifying model on the feature vectors that outputs a probabilities vector for each epoch, wherein each of the probabilities vectors comprises the probabilities of the epoch being each of the sleep quality parameters; inputting the probabilities vectors for each epoch into a machine learning time series model and applying a preformed sleep quality time series pattern function on said probabilities vectors that outputs an enhanced probabilities vector for each epoch; determining a final sleep quality parameter for each epoch by calculating the most probable sleep quality parameters sequence.
20. A method for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: obtaining an audio recorded signal comprising sleep sounds of a subject; segmenting the signal into epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors into a machine learning classifier and applying a preformed classifying model on the feature vectors that outputs a probabilities vector for each epoch, wherein each of the probabilities vectors comprises the probabilities of the epoch being each of the sleep quality parameters; determining a final sleep quality parameter for each epoch; wherein the one or more feature parameters are associated with a characteristic selected from the group consisting of body movements and non-respiratory sounds.
21. A method for determining sleep quality parameters according to claim 20, further comprising: inputting the probabilities vectors for each epoch into a machine learning time series model and applying a preformed sleep quality time series pattern function on said probabilities vectors that outputs an enhanced probabilities vector for each epoch; wherein determining the final sleep quality parameter for each epoch by calculating the most probable sleep quality parameters sequence.
22. A system for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to the processor and configured to store program instructions executable by the processor to implement the method for determining sleep quality parameters according to audio analyses, comprising: obtaining an audio recorded signal comprising sleep sounds of a subject; segmenting the signal into epochs; generating a feature vector for each epoch, wherein each of said feature vectors comprises one or more feature parameters that are associated with a particular characteristic of the signal and that are calculated according to the epoch signal or according to a signal generated from the epoch signal; inputting the generated feature vectors into a machine learning classifier and applying a preformed classifying model on the feature vectors that outputs a probabilities vector for each epoch, wherein each of the probabilities vectors comprises the probabilities of the epoch being each of the sleep quality parameters; determining a final sleep quality parameter for each epoch; wherein the one or more feature parameters are associated with a characteristic selected from the group consisting of body movements and non-respiratory sounds.
</claims>
</document>
