<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W60/00,H04W72/04,H04W76/11,H04W8/24,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TONG, YONGHUI
GAO, YAKUN
CHEN, YE
JIA, YUPENG
YANG, WEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74103397
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF OPTIMIZING AGGREGATION FOR 5G OR OTHER NEXT GENERATIONS WIRELESS NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments disclosed herein provide for optimization of information required for establishing an initial connection with a network device. According to some embodiments, a system can comprise receiving a service request from a network device. The system can further comprise determining a first size of a network device capabilities message, wherein the determining is based on a second size of the network device capability message previously collected from the network device; and based on a first result of analyzing the first size of the network device capabilities message and a message size threshold, determining that the network device capabilities message is not greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the network device to provide the network device capabilities message associated with network device capabilities in accordance with a single step enquiry.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a service request from a network device; determining a first size of a network device capabilities message, wherein the determining is based on a second size, of the network device capabilities message, previously collected from the network device; and based on a first result of analyzing the first size of the network device capabilities message and a message size threshold, determining that the network device capabilities message is not greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the network device to provide the network device capabilities message associated with network device capabilities in accordance with a single step enquiry.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a second result of the analyzing, determining that the network device capabilities message is greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the network device to provide the network device capabilities in accordance with a multiple step enquiry.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the multiple step enquiry comprises generating a first capability message comprising a first group of the network device capabilities associated with a first group of radio access technologies.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the multiple step enquiry further comprises generating a second capability message comprising a second group of the network device capabilities associated with a second group of radio access technologies.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the multiple step enquiry comprises generating a first capability message comprising a first group of the network device capabilities associated with a first group of radio access technologies and first information associated with a first band.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the multiple step enquiry further comprises generating a second capability message comprising a second group of the network device capabilities associated with a second group of radio access technologies and second information associated with a second band.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the single step enquiry comprises generating a first capability message representative of the network device capabilities associated with a group of available radio access technologies and information associated with a first band and a second band.
8. A method, comprising: receiving, by a processor of a device, an attach request from a communication device; determining, by the device, an estimated size of a communication device capabilities message associated with the communication device, wherein the determining is based on analysis of device capabilities information previously collected from the communication device; and based on a first result of analyzing the estimated size of the communication device capabilities message and a message size threshold, determining, by the device, that the communication device capabilities message is not greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the communication device to transmit the communication device capabilities message associated with communication device capabilities in accordance with a single step enquiry.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: based on a second result of the analyzing, determining, by the device, that the communication device capabilities message is greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the communication device to transmit a first capability message and a second capability message.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first capability message comprises the communication device capabilities associated with a first group of radio access technologies.
11. The method of claim 10, the first capability message comprises first information associated with a first band.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the second capability message comprises the communication device capabilities associated with a second group of radio access technologies.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second capability message comprises a band report comprising information associated with a first band and a second band.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: in response to the determining indicating that the communication device capabilities message is not greater than the message size threshold, generating, by the device, a first capability message comprising the communication device capabilities associated with a group of available radio access technologies and information associated with a first band and a second band.
15. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving an attach request from a first network device; determining an estimated size of a network device capabilities message associated with the first network device wherein the determining is based on a device capabilities information previously collected from the first network device and a second network device; and based on a first result of analyzing the estimated size of the network device capabilities message and a message size threshold, determining that the network device capabilities message is not greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the first network device to transmit the network device capabilities message associated with first network device capabilities in accordance with a single step enquiry.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a second result of the analyzing, determining that the network device capabilities message is greater than the message size threshold, and requesting the first network device to transmit a first capability message and a second capability message.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the first capability message comprises the first network device capabilities associated with a first group of radio access technologies; and wherein the second capability message comprises the first network device capabilities associated with a second group of radio access technologies.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the first capability message comprises the first network device capabilities associated with a first group of radio access technologies and first information associated with a first band.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the second capability message comprises the first network device capabilities associated with a second group of radio access technology and second information associated with a second band.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the single step enquiry comprises generating a first capability message comprising the first network device capabilities associated with a group of available radio access technologies and information associated with a first band and a second band.
</claims>
</document>
