<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02B1/20,H02G3/08,H02G3/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FURRION PROPERTY HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELL, STEVEN NEILL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946914
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distribution panel with wire locking frame and method of using same
</title>

<abstract>
A distribution panel contains a housing defining a hollow interior having a back panel with a plate configured to be mounted thereto, where the frame is either slidable relative to the back panel and has an open position and a closed position, or includes a portion of a wire-holding mechanism and is configured to be coupled to the back panel, which includes another portion of the wire-holding mechanism.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A distribution panel, comprising: a housing defining a hollow interior, the housing comprising: a back wall having at least a portion of a wire-holding mechanism disposed to pass an electrical wire therethrough into the interior of the distribution panel and to hold in place the electrical wire, the wire-holding mechanism including a first clip and a second clip configured to be positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place; an aperture defined in the back wall and configured to allow the electrical wire to pass therethrough into the interior; a front wall opposite the back wall; a top wall attached to the front wall and the back wall; a bottom wall opposite the top wall and attached to the front wall and the back wall; a left wall attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; a right wall opposite the left wall and attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; and a plate configured to be mounted to the back wall, the plate comprising an opening which is configured to align with the at least a portion of the wire-holding mechanism; and a circuit element disposed within the housing; wherein the first clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the back wall prior to coupling the plate to the back wall and the second clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the plate prior to coupling the plate to the back wall, and wherein, when the plate is coupled to the back wall, the second clip is partially inserted into a corresponding aperture in the back wall and positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place.
2. (canceled)
3. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the first clip is configured to extend away from the back wall toward the interior of the distribution panel at an angle and, wherein the first clip is configured to be flexible so as to be displaced in response to engagement by the wire and/or the second clip.
4. The distribution panel of claim 3, the back wall further comprising one or more guide walls disposed adjacent the aperture and configured to guide and/or support the second clip upon insertion of the second clip into the aperture.
5. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the wire-holding mechanism is disposed in the back wall, wherein the plate is slidable relative to the back wall, wherein the plate has an open position and a closed position, wherein when the plate is in the open position the electrical wire is movable within the wire-holding mechanism and wherein when the plate is in the closed position the electrical wire is locked in place.
6. The distribution panel of claim 5, wherein the electrical wire is movable towards and away from the interior of the distribution panel when the plate is in the open position.
7. The distribution panel of claim 5, wherein the opening comprises a side, and wherein when the plate is in the closed position the side pushes the electrical wire against the wire-holding mechanism such that the electrical wire is locked within the wire-holding mechanism.
8. The distribution panel of claim 5, wherein the plate comprises two slots on opposite sides of the plate, and wherein the plate slides along the two slots.
9. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the wire-holding mechanism is a strain relief.
10. (canceled)
11. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the distribution panel is selected from the group consisting of a fuse box, a circuit breaker box, a DC distribution box, and a combination thereof.
12. The distribution panel of claim 1, further comprising a feature selected from the group consisting of a removable plug, a grounding wire, a door, a lock, a DC distribution panel, and a combination thereof.
13. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the plate comprises a plastic, a metal, rubber, and a combination thereof.
14. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the circuit element is selected from a group consisting of a fuse holder, a fuse, a circuit breaker, an input/output connector, an alarm signal, a light emitting diode, an AC receptacle that is rated for 15 or 20 Amps, a ground bar and a combination thereof.
15. A building comprising a distribution panel, the distribution panel comprising: a housing defining an interior, the housing comprising: a back wall having at least a portion of a wire-holding mechanism disposed to pass an electrical wire therethrough into the interior of the distribution panel and to hold in place the electrical wire, the wire-holding mechanism including a first clip and a second clip configured to be positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place; an aperture defined in the back wall and configured to allow the electrical wire to pass therethrough into the interior; a front wall opposite the back wall; a top wall attached to the front wall and the back wall; a bottom wall opposite the top wall and attached to the front wall and the back wall; a left wall attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; a right wall opposite the left wall and attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; and a plate configured to be mounted to the back wall, the plate comprising an opening which is configured to align with the at least a portion of the wire-holding mechanism; and a circuit element disposed within the housing; wherein the first clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the back wall prior to coupling the plate to the back wall and the second clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the plate prior to coupling the plate to the back wall, and wherein, when the plate is coupled to the back wall, the second clip is partially inserted into a corresponding aperture in the back wall and positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place.
16. (canceled)
17. The building of claim 15, wherein the wire-holding mechanism is disposed in the back wall, wherein the plate is slidable relative to the back wall, wherein the plate has an open position and a closed position, wherein when the plate is in the open position the electrical wire is movable within the wire-holding mechanism and wherein when the plate is in the closed position the electrical wire is locked in place.
18. A vehicle comprising a distribution panel, the distribution panel comprising: a housing defining an interior, the housing comprising: a back wall having at least a portion of a wire-holding mechanism disposed to pass an electrical wire therethrough into the interior of the distribution panel and to hold in place the electrical wire, the wire-holding mechanism including a first clip and a second clip configured to be positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place; an aperture defined in the back wall and configured to allow the electrical wire to pass therethrough into the interior; a front wall opposite the back wall; a top wall attached to the front wall and the back wall; a bottom wall opposite the top wall and attached to the front wall and the back wall; a left wall attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; a right wall opposite the left wall and attached to the top wall, the back wall, and the front wall; and a plate configured to be mounted to the back wall, the plate comprising an opening which is configured to align with the at least a portion of the wire-holding mechanism; and a circuit element disposed within the housing; wherein the first clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the back wall prior to coupling the plate to the back wall and the second clip is coupled to, or integrated with, the plate prior to coupling the plate to the back wall, and wherein, when the plate is coupled to the back wall, the second clip is partially inserted into a corresponding aperture in the back wall and positioned proximate the first clip to pinch the electrical wire to hold the electrical wire in place.
19. The vehicle of claim 18, wherein the vehicle is selected from the group consisting of a recreational vehicle, a boat, a camper, an airplane, a drone, an industrial vehicle and a combination thereof.
20. (canceled)
21. The distribution panel of claim 1, wherein the first clip is configured to extend away from the back wall toward the interior of the distribution panel at an acute angle and, wherein the second clip is configured to be positioned such that an outer surface of the second clip is at least approximately perpendicular to the back wall.
</claims>
</document>
