<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHENZHEN FUGUI PRECISION IND. COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG SHIH-CHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RISK EVALUATING METHOD BASED ON DEEP LEARNING, SERVER, AND COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A risk evaluating method based on deep learning includes establishing an evaluation model of factor weights and an evaluation model of factor scores by training weight data and score data of multiple factors; acquiring factor information in a current environment; inputting the factor information into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores; calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors; determining whether the current environment satisfies a predefined first environmental important characteristic condition; sampling the weight data and the score data of the multiple factors, when the current environment satisfies the predefined first environmental important characteristic condition; and adjusting the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores respectively by training the sampled weight data and the sampled score data of the multiple factors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A risk evaluating method based on deep learning applied in a server comprising: establishing an evaluation model of factor weights and an evaluation model of factor scores by training weight data and score data of multiple factors; acquiring factor information in a current environment; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores; calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment; determining a current risk evaluation result by inputting the dynamic weight data and the score data of multiple factors in the current environment into a risk evaluation model; determining whether the current environment satisfies a predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; sampling the weight data and the score data of the multiple factors, when the current environment satisfies the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; and adjusting the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores respectively by training the sampled weight data and the sampled score data of the multiple factors.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: acquiring the factor information in the current environment, when the current environment does not satisfy the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and factor scores; and calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the current environment satisfies a predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores, when the current environment satisfies the predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; and calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining the multiple factors, the weight data of each factor, and the score data of each factor through Analytic Hierarchy Process.
5. The method according to claim 1, the method of establishing an evaluation model of factor weight and factor score by training the weight data and score data of multiple factors comprises: training the weight data and the score data of the factor in a neural network respectively, until actual output values and target output values are within an allowable error range; and establishing the evaluation model of the factor weights and the evaluation model of the factor scores.
6. The method according to claim 1, the method of determining a risk evaluation result comprises: calculating a risk value according to the input dynamic weight data and the score data of multiple factors and the risk evaluation model.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic is a lower threshold value of a predefined range of total score value of multiple factors, the method of determining whether the current environment satisfies the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic comprises: determining whether the total score of multiple factors in the current environment is less than the lower threshold value of the predefined range of total score value of multiple factors.
8. A server comprising: at least one processor; and a storage device coupled to the at least one processor and storing instructions for execution by the at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to: establish an evaluation model of factor weights and an evaluation model of factor scores by training weight data and score data of multiple factors; acquire factor information in a current environment; input the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores; calculate dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment; determine a current risk evaluation result by inputting the dynamic weight data and the score data of multiple factors in the current environment into a risk evaluation model; determine whether the current environment satisfies a predefined first environmental important characteristic condition; sample, when the current environment satisfies the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic, the weight data and the score data of the multiple factors; and adjust the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores respectively by training the sampled weight data and the sampled score data of the multiple factors.
9. The server according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: acquire, when the current environment does not satisfy the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic, the factor information in the current environment; input the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores; and calculate dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
10. The server according to claim 8, wherein at least one processor is further caused to: determine whether the current environment satisfies a predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; input, when the current environment satisfies the predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic, the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and factor scores; and calculate dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
11. The server according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: determine the multiple factors, the weight data of each factor, and the score data of each factor through Analytic Hierarchy Process.
12. The server according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: train the weight data and the score data of the factor in a neural network respectively, until actual output values and target output values are within an allowable error range; and establish the evaluation model of the factor weights and the model of the factor scores.
13. The server according to claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further caused to: calculate a risk value according to the input dynamic weight data and the score data of multiple factors and the risk evaluation model.
14. The server according to claim 8, wherein the first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic is a lower threshold value of a predefined range of total score value of multiple factors, the at least one processor is further caused to: determine whether the total score of multiple factors in the current environment is less than the lower threshold value of the predefined range of total score value of multiple factors.
15. A computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, when the instructions are executed by a processor of a server, the processor is configured to perform a risk evaluating method based on deep learning, wherein the method comprises: establishing an evaluation model of factor weights and an evaluation model of factor scores by training weight data and score data of multiple factors; acquiring factor information in a current environment; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores; calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment; determining a current risk evaluation result by inputting the dynamic weight data and the score data of multiple factors in the current environment into a risk evaluation model; determining whether the current environment satisfies a predefined first environmental important characteristic condition; sampling the weight data and the score data of the multiple factors, when the current environment satisfies the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; and adjusting the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores respectively by training the sampled weight data and the sampled score data of the multiple factors.
16. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, further comprising: acquiring the factor information in the current environment, when the current environment does not satisfy the predefined first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and factor scores; and calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
17. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, further comprising: determining whether the current environment satisfies a predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; inputting the factor information in the current environment into the evaluation models of the factor weights and the factor scores, when the current environment satisfies the predefined second condition in respect of environmental important characteristic; and calculating dynamic weight data and score data of multiple factors in the current environment.
18. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, further comprising: determining the multiple factors, the weight data of each factor, and the score data of each factor through Analytic Hierarchy Process.
19. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, the method of establishing an evaluation model of factor weight and factor score by training the weight data and score data of multiple factors comprises: training the weight data and the score data of the factor in a neural network respectively, until actual output values and target output values are within an allowable error range; and establishing the evaluation model of the factor weights and the evaluation model of the factor scores.
20. The computer-readable storage medium according to claim 15, wherein the first condition in respect of environmental important characteristic is a lower threshold value of a predefined range of total score value of multiple factors, the method of determining whether the current environment satisfies the predefined first environmental important characteristic condition comprises: determining whether the total score of multiple factors in the current environment is less than the lower threshold value of the predefined range of total score value of multiple factors.
</claims>
</document>
