<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C07H21/04,C12N15/62,C12Q1/6897
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
THE BROAD INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLAINEY, PAUL
BORRAJO, JACOB
DIXIT, ATRAY
NAJIA, MOHAMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61689726
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONSTRUCTS FOR CONTINUOUS MONITORING OF LIVE CELLS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides for methods to obtain multiple information-rich samples at different time points from the same cell while minimally disrupting the cell. The subject matter disclosed herein is generally related to nucleic acid constructs for continuous monitoring of live cells. Specifically, the subject matter disclosed herein is directed to nucleic acid constructs that encode a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence that induce live cells to self-report cellular contents while maintaining cell viability. The present invention may be used to monitor gene expression in single cells while maintaining cell viability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A nucleic acid construct comprising a nucleic acid sequence encoding a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence, the fusion protein comprising a secretion-inducing domain and a construct RNA sequence capture domain, the construct RNA sequence comprising a retrieval element and a cellular RNA capture element, wherein expression of the fusion protein in one or more cells induces export of cellular RNAs bound to the cellular RNA capture element.
2. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the secretion-inducing domain self-assembles upon expression to form an export compartment.
3. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, further encoding one or more of: an inducible promoter to control expression of the nucleic acid sequence encoding the fusion protein; an affinity tag such that the affinity tag is displayed with the secretion-inducing domain when expressed; a linker sequence of a particular size, the size of the linker sequence controlling the rate of formation of an export compartment, a size of the export compartment, or both; a detectable self-reporting molecule to detect successful delivery and expression of the nucleic acid constructs; a barcode sequence in the construct RNA sequence; and a nuclear export sequence in the construct RNA sequence to facilitate export of construct RNA sequences to the cytoplasm.
4. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the secretion-inducing domain is a viral capsid protein, and wherein the viral capsid protein is a Gag protein, optionally a lentivirus Gag protein.
5. (canceled)
6. (canceled)
7. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding the secretion-inducing domain is SEQ ID NO:1.
8. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the construct RNA sequence capture domain is MS2 coat protein or dCas9.
9. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the nucleic acid sequence encoding the retrieval domain element of the construct RNA sequence is SEQ ID NO: 10.
10. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the retrieval element on the construct RNA sequence is a dCas9 guide RNA sequence or a MS2 hairpin sequence.
11. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the cellular RNA capture element of the construct RNA sequence is a poly-U sequence, and optionally wherein the poly-U sequence is approximately 15 to approximately 50 nucleotides long.
12. (canceled)
13. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the cellular RNA capture element comprises a (UUG)n motif, and optionally wherein n is approximately 1 to approximately 20.
14. (canceled)
15. The nucleic acid construct of claim 3, wherein the barcode sequence is a randomized nucleic acid sequence of approximately 10 to approximately 40 nucleotides.
16. The nucleic acid construct of claim 1, wherein the secretion-inducing domain self-assembles to form an export compartment approximately 10 nm to approximately 500 nm in diameter.
17. A vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 1.
18. The vector of claim 17, wherein the vector is a non-viral or viral vector.
19. (canceled)
20. A system comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 3 and a nucleic acid construct expressing a nuclear export protein that facilitates nuclear export of the construct RNA sequence via the nuclear export sequence of the construct RNA sequence.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the nuclear export sequence encodes a viral nuclear export protein, and optionally wherein the viral export protein is a Rev viral protein.
22. (canceled)
23. A kit comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 1.
24. A kit comprising the vector of claim 17.
25. A kit comprising the system of claim 20.
26. A method for continuous monitoring of live cells comprising: delivering into one or more cells a nucleic acid construct encoding a fusion protein and a construct RNA sequence, the fusion protein comprising a secretion-inducing domain and a construct RNA sequence capture domain, and the construct RNA sequence comprising a retrieval element, a barcode, and a cellular RNA capture element; expressing the nucleic acid construct in the one or more cells; capturing cellular RNA expressed in the one or more cells by binding the cellular RNA via the cellular RNA capture element of the construct RNA sequence; exporting the cellular RNA from the cell by binding of the fusion protein construct RNA capture element to the retrieval element of the construct RNA such that the cellular RNA is exported from the cell in association with the secretion-inducing domain, wherein the secretion-inducing domain self-assembles to form an export vesicle; and isolating the exported vesicles containing captured cellular RNA transcripts at one or more time points.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: generating a RNA-DNA duplex by reverse transcribing the captured cell RNA transcript using the construct RNA sequence as a primer for reverse transcription; generating a DNA-DNA duplex by converting the construct RNA sequence to a corresponding DNA sequence with a second strand synthesis using a DNA primer such that the barcode sequence is included in the DNA-DNA duplex; generating a sequencing library from the generated DNA-DNA duplexes; sequencing the sequencing library to identify the captured cell mRNA transcripts wherein the one or more cells from which the cellular RNA transcripts were isolated are identified from the sequenced barcode.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the nucleic acid construct is the nucleic acid construct of claim 1, and optionally wherein the nucleic acid construct is delivered using a non-viral or a viral vector.
29. (canceled)
30. A nucleic acid construct encoding a barcode that can be amplified by a cell and used to mark cellular components of the cell according to cell of origin.
31. The nucleic acid construct of claim 30, wherein the nucleic acid construct comprises a barcode and a cellular RNA capture element.
32. The nucleic acid construct of claim 31 wherein the cellular RNA capture element comprises a poly(U) or (UUG)n motif, and optionally wherein the poly(U) sequence is approximately 15 to approximately 50 nucleotides long and/or optionally wherein "n" is approximately 1 to approximately 20.
33. (canceled)
34. The nucleic acid construct of claim 30, wherein the barcode is a randomized nucleic acid sequence of approximately 10 to approximately 40 nucleotides.
35. The nucleic acid construct of claim 30, further comprising a searchable filter sequence, wherein the filter is set a fixed distance from the barcode and can be used to identify the barcode in downstream sequencing reads.
36. The nucleic acid construct of claim 30, further comprising an adapter sequence, wherein the adapter provides a complementary binding site for a reverse transcription primer.
37. The nucleic acid construct of claim 30, further comprising a sequencing primer binding site complementary to one or more sequencing primers.
38. A vector comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 30.
39. The vector of claim 38, wherein the vector is a non-viral vector or a viral vector.
40. (canceled)
41. A kit comprising the nucleic acid construct of claim 30.
42. A kit comprising the vector of claim 38.
43. A method for labeling molecular components of a cell according to cell of origin, comprising: expressing the nucleic acid construct of claim 30 in one or more cells, wherein the barcode is unique to an individual cell or cell lineage; capturing cellular RNA expressed in the one or more cells by binding the cellular RNA via the cellular RNA capture element of the expressed construct sequence; and incorporating the barcode of the expressed nucleic acid construct to the captured cellular RNA to generate barcoded cellular RNA.
44. The method of claim 43, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by use of the nucleic acid construct to prime first strand synthesis of the captured cellular RNA template.
45. The method of claim 43, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by ligation of the nucleic acid construct to the cellular RNA by RNA-RNA ligation.
46. The method of claim 43, wherein the barcode is attached to the cellular RNA by further priming second strand synthesis.
47. The method of claim 43, further comprising amplifying the barcoded cellular RNA, optionally by RNA-depended RNA synthesis, and wherein the RNA-dependent RNA synthesis is optionally facilitated by T7 RNAP.
48. (canceled)
49. (canceled)
50. The method of claim 43, further comprising amplifying the barcoded cellular RNA by PCR.
51. The method of claim 43, further comprising amplifying the barcoded cellular RNA by linear DNA amplification.
</claims>
</document>
