<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/15,G06F21/57,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMERICAN FAMILY MUTUAL INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Howlett, Noel
Alexander, Kelsen
Petreman, Nathaniel
Orth, Magann
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046750
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENVIRONMENTAL RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes devices and methods monitoring a technology environment. In particular, a computing device including a processor with computer readable instructions to access a plurality of indicators (e.g., variables) that have corresponding stored historical information. The indicators are then used to calculate a summed weights table of relative risk for each time period in the past. The summed weights table is then correlated to a target variable (e.g., a variable that documents major issues, incidents, or disruptions that occurred in the technology environment in the past). The correlation coefficient between the summed weights table and the target variable is then used to implement a machine learning algorithm in order to better determine current risk levels (e.g., relative values that predict issues, incidents, or disruption).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining risk levels that are indicative of risk in a technology environment, the method comprising: accessing, via a processor, a first indicator and a second indicator, wherein the first indicator comprises a first array of data values and a first risk weight, and the second indicator comprises a second array of data values and a second risk weight, wherein each value of the first array of data values corresponds with a respective value of the second array of data values; calculating, via the processor, a risk level based on the first and second indicators; updating, via the processor, the first risk weight and the second risk weight; and providing a risk assessment response based on the risk level via a graphical user interface (GUI).
2. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the risk level comprises: determining, via the processor, a first threshold value for the first indicator and a second threshold value for the second indicator; determining, via the processor, a third array of data values, wherein determining the third array of data values comprises: determining, via the processor, each value in the first array that is greater than the first threshold value and each value in the second array that is greater than the second threshold value; and generating, via the processor, the third array of data values based on each value in the first array that is greater than the first value threshold and each value in the second array that is greater than the second threshold value; and determining, via the processor, the risk level based on the third array of data values, wherein the risk level is indicative of risk in the technology environment
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each value of the third array of data values corresponds with a respective value of the first array of data values and a respective value of the second array of data values.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein updating the first risk weight and second risk weight comprises: accessing, via the processor, a fourth indicator, wherein the fourth indicator comprises a fourth array of data values, and wherein each value of the fourth array of data values corresponds to a respective value of the third array of data values; and calculating, via the processor, a first correlation coefficient (FCC) between the third array and the fourth array.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein updating the first risk weight and the second risk weight further comprises: incrementing, via the processor, the first risk weight; updating, via the processor, the third array of data values, wherein updating the third array comprises re-determining the third array of data values based on the first array; and calculating, via the processor, a second correlation coefficient (SCC) between the updated third array and the fourth array.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein updating the first risk weight and the second risk weight further comprises: determining, via the processor, that the SCC is less than the FCC; in response to determining that the SCC is less than the FCC, decrementing, via the processor, one of the values from the first array; updating, via the processor, the third array, wherein updating the third array comprises re-determining the third array based on the first set of values; and calculating, via the processor, a third correlation coefficient between the updated third array and the fourth array.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein updating the first risk weight and the second risk weight further comprises: determining, via the processor, that the third correlation coefficient is greater than the FCC; and assigning, via the processor, the decremented first risk weight as an updated first risk weight.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein updating the first risk weight and the second risk weight further comprises: determining, via the processor, that the SCC is greater than the FCC; and assigning, via the processor, the incremented first risk weight as an updated first risk weight.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein an access point is automatically reset based on the risk assessment response.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first threshold value for the first indicator comprises: determining, via the processor, a median value for the data values in the first array; determining, via the processor, a standard deviation of the data values in the first array; generating, via the processor, the first threshold value for the first indicator based on the median value and the standard deviation.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the risk level comprises: determining, via the processor, percentiles of the third array; and generating, via the processor, the risk level based on one of the values of the third array and the percentiles of the third array, wherein the one of the values of the third array is indicative of risk at the present time.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein each one of the first set of values corresponds to a value of the first indicator during a past time period, and each one of the second set of values corresponds to a value of the second indicator in a past time period.
13. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the third array comprises: summing, via the processor, a value of the first risk weight for each value in the first array that is above the first value threshold with a respective value of the second risk weight for each value in the second array that is above the second value threshold; and creating, via the processor, the third array, wherein each value of the third array comprises a summed weights array and each value of the summed weights array corresponds to one of the values of the first array and one of the values of the second array.
14. The method of claim 2, wherein the first indicator is a first variable in the environment that has been monitored over time and the second indicator is a second variable in the environment that has been monitored over time, and wherein each of the data values of the first array and each of the data values of the second array correspond to a respective time period.
15. A system, comprising: a display configured to present a graphical user interface (GUI); and a processor and program logic stored in memory and executed by the processor, the program logic including environmental risk level determination logic configured to: access a first indicator and a second indicator, wherein the first indicator comprises a first array of data values and a first risk weight, and the second indicator comprises a second array of data values and a second risk weight, wherein each value of the first array of data values corresponds with a respective value of the second array of data values; calculate a risk level using the first indictor and the second indicator; update the first risk weight and the second risk weight; and provide a risk assessment response via the GUI.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein to calculate the risk level using the first indicator and the second indicator the processor is further configured to: define a first threshold value that corresponds to the first array and a second threshold value that corresponds to the second array; determine a third array of historical weights, wherein determining the third array of historical weights comprises: determining each data value in the first array that is greater than the first threshold weight and each data value in the second array that is greater than the second threshold weight; and producing the third array of historical weights based on each data value in the first array that is greater than the first threshold value and each data value in the second array that is greater than the second threshold weight; and determine the risk level based on the third array of historical weights, wherein the risk level is indicative of risk in the environment.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein producing the third array comprises: assigning the value of the first risk weight to each data value of the first array that is above the first threshold value; assigning the value of the second risk weight to each data value of the second array that is above the second threshold value; and summing together the assigned values of the first array and the assigned values of the second array to create the third array, wherein the third array is an array of summed weights and wherein each of the summed weights corresponds to a data value of the first array and a time period in the past.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the first array of data values corresponds to a first indicator and the second array of data values corresponds to a second indicator, wherein the first indicator is indicative of a first set of events and the second indicator is indicative of a second set of events.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein updating the first risk weight and the second risk weight comprises: calculating a FCC between a fourth array and the third array; incrementing the value of the first risk weight; re-determining the third array; after re-determining the third array and updating the first array with the incremented risk weight, calculating a SCC between the first array and the third array; determining that the SCC is greater than the FCC; and in response to the determination that the SCC is greater than the FCC, assigning the incremented value of the first risk weight to the value of the first risk weight.
20. A system, comprising: a graphical user interface (GUI); a database of indicator values; and a server system, the server system comprising a processor and instructions stored in non-transitory machine-readable media, the instructions configured to cause the server system to: access a first indicator and a second indicator, wherein the first indicator comprises a first dataset of data values and a first risk weight, and the second indicator comprises a second dataset of data values and a second risk weight, wherein each value of the first dataset of data values corresponds with a respective value of the second dataset of data values; calculate a risk level using the first indicator and the second indicator; update the first risk weight and the second risk weight; and provide a risk assessment response via the GUI.
</claims>
</document>
