<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063,H03K5/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AISTORM
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHIE, DAVID
DRABOS, PETER
SIBRAI, ERIK
SIBRAI, ANDREAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051760
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHARGE BASED SWITCHED MATRIX AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
A reconfigurable, for example with time, network switch matrix coupling switch charge circuits representing multiply and add circuits (MACs) and neurons (MACs with activations) capable of accepting and outputting proportional to charge pulses through crossbars within said network, said crossbars controlled by local controllers and higher level controllers to setup said crossbar communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A switched charge circuit comprising: at least one input charge storage device coupled to an input to receive a charge during an initial phase, wherein the at least one input charge storage device is initially reset to one of a potential or charge threshold; at least one output charge storage device coupled to an output and to the at least one input charge storage device, wherein the at least one output charge storage device is initially reset to a charge level; a comparison device coupled to a shared node connecting the at least one input charge storage device and the at least one output charge storage device; at least one first current source coupled to the at least one output charge storage device at least one second current source coupled to the shared node connecting the at least one input charge storage device and the at least one output charge storage device proportional in magnitude to the at least one first current source to produce a one of a charge multiplication or division on the at least one output charge storage device; wherein the at least one first current source and the at least one second current source are turned on at the beginning of a second phase and turned off when the shared node reaches one of a potential or charge threshold producing an output pulse proportional to a magnitude of the one of charge multiplication or division.
2. A switched charge circuit comprising: at least one input switched charge reservoir initially reset to a charge threshold and coupled to an input to receive charge during an initial phase; at least one output switched charge reservoir initially reset to the charge threshold, coupled to an output and to the first input charge reservoir in functional series; a comparison device coupled to a shared node connecting the at least one input switched charge reservoir and the at least one output switched charge reservoir; at least one first charge movement device coupled to the at least one output switched charge reservoir; at least one second charge movement device coupled to the shared node proportional in magnitude to the at least one first charge movement device to charge the at least one input switched charge reservoir and the at least one output switched charge reservoir at proportional charge rates to produce one of a charge multiplication or division; wherein the at least one first charge movement devices and the at least one second charge movement device are turned on at the beginning of a second phase and turned off when the shared node reaches one of a reference potential or charge threshold; and a driver producing an output pulse proportional to a magnitude of the one of the charge multiplication or division by driving the output pulse during a time that the at least one first charge movement devices and the at least one second charge movement device are on during a second phase.
3. A switched charge circuit comprising: a first charge storage device initially reset to one of a first potential or first charge threshold and coupled to an input to receive an input charge during an initial phase; wherein said first charge storage device receives charge from said input constituting at least a first charge movement device of programmable magnitude gated by a charge pulse where said pulse width constitutes a charge proportional input value and the charge movement device magnitude constitutes a weight; wherein gating of the charge movement device by the charge proportional input values produces multiplied weight by value charge inputs which are summed on the first charge storage device; wherein after the weighted value charge inputs have been coupled to the first charge storage device an output charge movement device proportional to said at least first charge movement device is enabled during a second phase to return the first charge storage device to the one of first potential or first charge threshold, and then turned off; wherein a driver produces a pulse during a time that the at least one charge movement device is active so as to produce a pulse output whose period represents a weighted sum of the input values.
4. The switched charge circuit of claim 3, wherein the said output charge movement device is disabled by a control signal until all charge inputs have arrived.
5. The switched charge circuit of claim 3, comprising: a second charge storage device initially reset to one of a second potential or second charge threshold, wherein a charge corresponding to a decision circuit threshold is further loaded onto the second charge storage device; a second charge movement device simultaneously enabled with the first charge movement device terminating when the second charge storage device reaches said second potential or second charge threshold where an output is produced by OR'ing simultaneous outputs of pulses which are on while each of said charge movement devices are on; wherein an output of the OR'ing is a ReLU output in pulse proportional to charge form.
6. A device to produce an input(s) weighted summer output comprising: an input charge storage device; an output charge storage device; at least one input charge coupled to the input charge storage device; and a charge transfer device coupling the input charge storage device and the output charge storage device; wherein an output proportional to an input charge multiplied by a ratio of charge supplied by the charge transfer device is produced by the device; wherein sourcing of charges to the input charge storage device and the output charge storage device is initiated after coupling of an input charge and stopping the sourcing of charges after the input charge storage device returns to an initial charge level.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein an output pulse is proportional to a time it takes to return the input charge storage device to the initial charge level.
8. A device to increase an effective number of neurons, or to produce virtual neurons, in a network, wherein the device separates neuron operations into time frames, wherein at each frame connections are modified such that a new connection reuses a neuron as if it were an independent neuron.
9. A correlated double sampling reset mechanism comprising: a charge storage device coupled to an input; a comparator coupled to the charge storage device; and a charge movement device coupled to the charge storage device, whereby the charge storage device is adjusted by the charge movement device until a switch point of the comparator is reached in one phase and after which during a second phase an input charge is removed from the charge storage device adjusting a charge level on the charge storage device, after which the charge movement device is enabled for an output phase until the switch point of the comparator is reached again; wherein noise and offsets represent an excess charge removal during the said second phase, and are added again during the output phase thereby cancelling the noise and offset.
10. A charge proportional pulse-based neuron comprising: a first charge storage device coupled to at least one gated input charge movement device, wherein the at least one gated input charge movement device is programmable in magnitude against a gated master charge movement device, wherein the at least one gated input charge movement device is gated by input pulses proportional in time to an input charge value; a first comparator device coupled to the first charge storage device, wherein the first charge storage device is initially charged to a switch point of the first comparator device; a second charge storage device; a second comparator device, wherein the second charge storage device is initially charged to a switch point of the second comparator and then a charge proportional to a threshold removed from the second charge storage device; and a second charge movement device proportional or equal in magnitude to the master charge movement device is gated by the second comparator device; wherein the master charge movement device and the second charge movement device are enabled after input charges are loaded, the master charge movement device staying on until the switch point of the first comparator is reached and the second charge movement device staying on until the switch point of the second comparator device is reached; wherein a time it takes for the latter of the switch point of the first comparator device or the switch point of the second comparator device to be reached is OR'ed and buffered to produce a ReLU decision output in proportional to charge output form.
11. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10, wherein the comparison device is a common source MOSFET.
12. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10, wherein the comparison device is a common source MOSFET with a source level shifted relative to ground.
13. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10, comprising a diode connected mosfet connected between a source of the common source MOSFET and ground.
14. The switched charge circuit of claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein positive feedback is used to reduce the overdrive required for switching to occur and thereby decrease the "deadzone" of operation;
15. The switched charge circuit of claim 12 where the source of said common source MOSFET is lifted by a follower to control the switch point voltage;
16. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10 wherein a driver creates replica charge pulses where the replicated charge pulses are driven adaptively such that magnitudes and edges are the same as the pulse being replicated regardless of load.
17. A calibration circuit, wherein a maximum charge pulse width is provided to a multiply and add switch charge circuit or neuron and local charge movement device magnitudes are adjusted against the maximum pulse width so as to replicate said maximum pulse width for a weight magnitude of 1.
18. The calibration circuit of claim 17, wherein a minimum charge width is provided to a local neuron to set a minimum proportional pulse width, through a bias input or fixed delay element, to match said pulse width which correlates to charge zero or other minimum charge value.
19. The calibration circuit of claim 17 or 18, wherein the maximum pulse width is set in conformance with a cmos image sensor global shutter device.
20. A crossbar, wherein the crossbar is driven by a dynamic driver and is capable of coupling charge proportional pulses.
21. The crossbar of claim 20, wherein the crossbar is coupled to a local controller capable of making dynamic crossbar connections responsive to a frame time.
22. The crossbar of claim 21, wherein local controllers are further coupled to other local controllers.
23. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10 wherein the switch charge circuit is biased in subthreshold to reduce power.
24. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10, wherein two quadrant operation is implemented by one of adding or removing charge after initial reset.
25. The switched charge circuit of claim 24 wherein class AB switchover techniques are used to overcome the deadzone associated with two quadrant operation around said common source MOSFET comparator's switch point;
26. The switched charge circuit of claim 24 or 25, wherein a sign bit is communicated to allow proper pre-set and reset of the comparison device by knowing which quadrant to operate in.
27. The circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10 wherein the input or subsequent layers are normalized by adjusting the magnitude of the second charge movement device.
28. The switched charge circuit of claim 1, 2, 3 or 10, wherein a sum of the at least one first current source and at least one second current source is at a constant magnitude while varying a ratio between the at least one first current source and at least one second current source to maintain a fixed overshoot for a comparator.
29. A circuit to reduce charge movement weight stabilization times utilizing steering circuits to setup multiple current magnitudes and quickly switch between them;
30. A recurrent neural network comprising a crossbar, wherein the crossbar is driven by a dynamic driver and capable of coupling charge proportional pulses, wherein the crossbar is coupled to a local controller capable of making dynamic crossbar connections responsive to a frame time, wherein connections are made in conformance with a requirement of time based connections commensurate with recurrent neural network implementation.
</claims>
</document>
