<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/04,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIGHT MACHINE
</assignee>

<inventors>
OOSTENDORP, NATHAN
SMITH, RYAN
DEMAAGD, KURTIS ALAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58798228
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING MANUFACTURING
</title>

<abstract>
A system for monitoring manufacturing includes one or more sensors and a controller in communication with the one or more sensors. The controller may include one or more processors that determine a quality metric represented by machine data collected from one or more machine data sensors and identify a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors. The controller may further include determine if the correlation value exceeds a predetermined threshold value, and if the correlation value exceeds the predetermined threshold value, report at least one of the correlation value and the quality metric.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring manufacturing, comprising: one or more sensors; and a controller in operative communication with the one or more sensors, wherein the controller comprises one or more processors and a memory communicatively coupled with and readable by the one or more processors and having stored therein processor-readable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine a trend line comprising a plurality of points representing machine data collected from the one or more sensors over at least one of a period of time or a number of machine parts; determine an average value for the machine data; determine if one or more of the plurality of points on the trend line cross the average value more than a predetermined number of times; and if the one or more points cross the average value more than the predetermined number of times, initiate an alert message that the one or more points are fluctuating above or below the mean value.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise at least one machine data sensor and one environmental data sensor.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a server in operative communication with the controller and one or more remote terminals.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the server comprises a cloud-based data server having one or more databases, and wherein the one or more databases store the machine data and environmental data collected from the one or more sensors.
5. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of an electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: determine a trend line comprising a plurality of points representing machine data collected from one or more machine data sensors over at least one of a period of time or a number of machine parts; determine an average value for the machine data; determine if one or more of the plurality of points on the trend line cross the average value more than a predetermined number of times; and if the one or more points cross the average value more than the predetermined number of times, initiate an alert message that the one or more points are fluctuating above or below the mean value.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: determine that a quality metric represented by the machine data is indicative of a substandard quality; and report the quality metric based on the determination.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: compare the machine data to at least one of an average value, a lower control level value, and an upper control level value; and determine the quality metric indicates the substandard quality based on the comparison.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein: the average value, the lower control level value, and the upper control level value define a tolerance range for a part being manufactured; and the substandard quality represents the machine data exceeds the tolerance range.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: receive a user request for a root cause analysis based on the determination that the quality metric is indicative of the substandard quality; and identify and report a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors in response to the user request.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: receive a user request for at least one of a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors and a quality metric represented by the machine data; and report at least one of the correlation value and the quality metric in response to the user request.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: based on a determination that a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors exceeds the predetermined threshold value, determine an environmental factor, wherein the environmental factor indicates at least one of a humidity reading, temperature reading, and pressure reading represented by the environmental data; and report the environmental factor.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to analyze environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors and the machine data using a regression analysis to identify a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, wherein the predetermined threshold value is a minimum correlation factor that is based on user input received during an initial setup procedure.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to retrieve data representing at least one of environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors and the machine data from a network database.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: determine the one or more points exceed a tolerance range more than a predetermined number of times, wherein the tolerance range is defined by a lower control level value and an upper control level value; and based on the determination, generate an alert message indicating that the one or more points exceed the tolerance range.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: determine an average value and a standard deviation based on the machine data; analyze the machine data by applying one or more Nelson rules and at least one of the average value and the standard deviation; determine an anomaly situation based on the analysis, wherein the anomaly situation indicates a violation event of the one or more Nelson rules; and initiate an alert message indicating the determined anomaly situation.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: determine an outcome variable based on a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors, wherein the outcome variable comprises a variable type that is at least one of a categorical variable and an ordinal variable, wherein the variable type of the outcome variable is based at least in part on a user request for a root cause analysis; and report the outcome variable.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: map the machine data to one or more particular manufactured parts; and report the one or more particular manufactured parts along with at least one of a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors and a quality metric represented by the machine data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 5, the one or more programs further comprising instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors of the electronic device, instruct the electronic device to: optimize a monitored assembly line based on a correlation value between the machine data and environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors by: determining one or more parallel subassembly processes of the monitored assembly line; and prioritizing the one or more parallel subassembly processes in the monitored assembly line based at least in part on environmental data collected from one or more environmental data sensors and the machine data so that a production time length of the monitored assembly line is reduced.
20. A computer-implemented method for monitoring manufacturing, the method comprising: determining a trend line comprising a plurality of points representing machine data collected from one or more machine data sensors over at least one of a period of time or a number of machine parts; determining an average value for the machine data; determining if one or more of the plurality of points on the trend line cross the average value more than a predetermined number of times; and if the one or more points cross the average value more than the predetermined number of times, initiating an alert message that the one or more points are fluctuating above or below the mean value.
</claims>
</document>
