<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G69/28,G06F3/0482,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,H04W4/021,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BURLESON, TIMOTHY J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69161949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING THE STATUS OF LOADING DOCKS AND RESOURCES AT PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION CENTERS
</title>

<abstract>
There are provided systems and methods for determining the status of loading docks and resources at product distribution centers. In one form, the system includes: a product distribution center including loading docks for receiving trailers transporting shipments of merchandise, beacons disposed at predetermined locations in the product distribution center, and a mobile device for communication with the beacons to determine the position of the mobile device in the product distribution center relative to the loading docks. In the system, a control circuit receives tracking information from the mobile device to determine the position of the mobile device, determines the use and availability of the loading dock closest to the mobile device; determines the arrival times of trailers, determines the status of resources at or near the closest loading dock, and causes the display of this loading dock and resource information on the mobile device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining the status of loading docks and resources at product distribution centers, the system comprising: a product distribution center configured to store merchandise and including a plurality of loading docks configured to receive trailers transporting shipments of merchandise; a plurality of beacons disposed at a plurality of predetermined locations in the product distribution center, each beacon configured to transmit a unique signal; a mobile device with a microcontroller configured for communication with one or more beacons to determine the position of the mobile device in the product distribution center relative to the plurality of loading docks; a control circuit communicatively coupled to the mobile device, the control circuit configured to: receive tracking information from the mobile device based on the device's communication with the one or more beacons to determine the position of the mobile device in the product distribution center; determine the use and availability of the loading dock closest to the mobile device; determine the scheduled or estimated arrival times of trailers with incoming shipments of merchandise at the loading dock closest to the mobile device; determine the status of resources at or near the loading dock closest to the mobile device; cause to display on the mobile device the use and availability of the loading dock closest to the mobile device, the estimated or scheduled arrival time of trailers at the loading dock closest to the mobile device, and the status of resources at or near the closest loading dock; wherein the control circuit communicates with the microcontroller to transmit and cause to display local information to the mobile device at a specific area in the product distribution center based on the microcontroller's communication with the one or more beacons.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a virtual geofencing boundary at a predetermined distance about the product distribution center to provide notice of arrival of trailers at the product distribution center.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein a barcode is disposed at each loading dock and wherein the mobile device is configured to read the barcode at a desired loading dock to determine the use and availability of the desired loading dock.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to assign a first trailer arriving at the product distribution center within a predetermined amount of time to a loading dock unoccupied by a second trailer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine and to cause to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, one or more of: the number of trailers present at the loading docks, the use and availability of the loading docks, the scheduled or estimated times of arrival of trailers, and the status of resources.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine and to cause to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, the quantity of merchandise delivered to the product distribution center over a predetermined time period.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine and to cause to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, one or more of: recent attendance of a selected employee at the product distribution center over a predetermined time, the selected employee's start date at his current position, and the selected employee's certifications and training.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine and to cause to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, audit information of shipments of merchandise received at the product distribution center over a predetermined time period.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine and to cause to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, the operation of conveyors at or near the closest loading dock.
10. A method for determining the status of loading docks and resources at product distribution centers, the method comprising: providing a product distribution center configured to store merchandise and including a plurality of loading docks configured to receive trailers transporting shipments of merchandise; disposing a plurality of beacons at a plurality of predetermined locations in the product distribution center, each beacon configured to transmit a unique signal; providing a mobile device with a microcontroller configured for communication with one or more beacons to determine the position of the mobile device in the product distribution center relative to the plurality of loading docks; by a control circuit: receiving tracking information from the mobile device based on the device's communication with the one or more beacons to determine the position of the mobile device in the product distribution center; determining the use and availability of the loading dock closest to the mobile device; determining the scheduled or estimated arrival times of trailers with incoming shipments of merchandise at the loading dock closest to the mobile device; determining the status of resources at or near the loading dock closest to the mobile device; causing to display on the mobile device the use and availability of the loading dock closest to the mobile device, the estimated or scheduled arrival time of trailers at the loading dock closest to the mobile device, and the status of resources at or near the closest loading dock; and communicating with the microcontroller to transmit and cause to display local information to the mobile device at a specific area in the product distribution center based on the microcontroller's communication with the one or more beacons.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by a virtual geofencing boundary at a predetermined distance about the product distribution center, providing notice of arrival of trailers at the product distribution center.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein a barcode is disposed at each loading dock and wherein the mobile device is configured to read the barcode at a desired loading dock to determine the use and availability of the desired loading dock.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, assigning a first trailer arriving at the product distribution center within a predetermined amount of time to a loading dock unoccupied by a second trailer.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, determining and causing to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, one or more of: the number of trailers present at the loading docks, the use and availability of the loading docks, the scheduled or estimated times of arrival of trailers, and the status of resources.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, determining and causing to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, the quantity of merchandise delivered to the product distribution center over a predetermined time period.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, determining and causing to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, one or more of: recent attendance of a selected employee at the product distribution center over a predetermined time, the selected employee's start date at his current position, and the selected employee's certifications and training.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, determining and causing to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, audit information of shipments of merchandise received at the product distribution center over a predetermined time period.
18. The method of claim 10, further comprising, by the control circuit, determining and causing to display on the mobile device, upon request from the mobile device, the operation of conveyors at or near the closest loading dock.
</claims>
</document>
