<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/166,G06F40/253,G06F40/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING XIAOMI INTELLIGENT TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAN, XIAOTONG
LIU, ZUOPENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67369239
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR TEXT PROCESSING
</title>

<abstract>
A text processing method includes: word segmentation is performed on a first text to be processed to determine multiple words of the first text; one word is removed from the first text to obtain one second text; each word is removed from the first text one by one to obtain a second text set; the first text and each second text in the second text set are analyzed respectively to obtain a first tree structure of the first text and a second tree structure of each second text; and a summary text of the first text is determined according to the first tree structure and each second tree structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for text processing, comprising: performing word segmentation on a first text to be processed to determine multiple words of the first text; removing, from the first text, one word in the multiple words of the first text to obtain one second text; removing each word from the first text one by one to obtain a second text set; analyzing the first text and each second text in the second text set respectively to obtain a first tree structure of the first text and a second tree structure of the each second text, wherein each of the multiple words in the first text is a node of the first tree structure, and each of words in the each second text is a node of the each second tree structure; and determining a summary text of the first text according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the first text and the each second text in the second text set respectively to obtain the first tree structure of the first text and the second tree structure of the each second text comprises: making dependency grammar analysis over the first text and the each second text respectively to obtain dependence relationships between the multiple words of the first text and dependence relationships between the words of the each second text respectively; and obtaining the first tree structure of the first text and the second tree structure of the each second text respectively according to the dependence relationships between the multiple words of the first text and the dependence relationships between the words of the each second text.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the summary of the text to be processed according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure comprises: determining scores of structure match between multiple second tree structures and the first tree structure respectively according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure; determining a target tree structure from the each second tree structure according to the scores of structure match of the multiple second tree structures; and deleting a target word from the first text to obtain the summary text of the first text, wherein the target word is a word missing from a second text with the target tree structure relative to the first text.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the determining the scores of structure match between the multiple second tree structures and the first tree structure respectively according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure comprises: determining a score of node match between a first target node and a second target node according to the first target node of the first tree structure, a child node of the first target node, the second target node of the second tree structure and a child node of the second target node, wherein the first target node is any word in the first tree structure and the second target node is a word the same as the first target node; and determining the scores of structure match between the multiple second tree structures and the first tree structure according to the scores of node match of multiple nodes.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the scores of structure match comprise scores of structure full match and scores of structure part match.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the scores of structure match comprise scores of structure full match and scores of structure part match.
7. A device for text processing, comprising: a processor; and a memory configured to store an instruction executable for the processor, wherein the processor is configured to execute blocks of: performing word segmentation on a first text to be processed to determine multiple words of the first text; removing, from the first text, one word in the multiple words of the first text to obtain one second text; removing each word from the first text one by one to obtain a second text set; analyzing the first text and each second text in the second text set respectively to obtain a first tree structure of the first text and a second tree structure of the each second text, wherein each of the multiple words in the first text is a node of the first tree structure, and each of words in the each second text is a node of the each second tree structure; and determining a summary text of the first text according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to execute blocks of: making dependency grammar analysis over the first text and the each second text respectively to obtain dependence relationships between the multiple words of the first text and dependence relationships between the words of the each second text respectively; and obtaining the first tree structure of the first text and the second tree structure of the each second text respectively according to the dependence relationships between the multiple words of the first text and the dependence relationships between the words of the each second text.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to execute blocks of: determining scores of structure match between multiple second tree structures and the first tree structure respectively according to the first tree structure and the each second tree structure; determining a target tree structure from the each second tree structure according to the scores of structure match of the multiple second tree structures; and deleting a target word from the first text to obtain the summary text of the first text, wherein the target word is a word missing from a second text with the target tree structure relative to the first text.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to execute blocks of: determining a score of node match between a first target node and a second target node according to the first target node of the first tree structure, a child node of the first target node, the second target node of the second tree structure and a child node of the second target node, wherein the first target node is any word in the first tree structure and the second target node is a word the same as the first target node; and determining the scores of structure match between the multiple second tree structures and the first tree structure according to the scores of node match of multiple nodes.
11. The device of claim 9, wherein the scores of structure match comprise scores of structure full match and scores of structure part match.
12. The device of claim 10, wherein the scores of structure match comprise scores of structure full match and scores of structure part match.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 1.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 2.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 3.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 4.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 5.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having an instruction therein, when executed by a processor, to enable the processor to execute the method of claim 6.
19. A mobile phone implementing the method of claim 1, the mobile phone comprising a display screen.
20. The mobile phone of claim 29, wherein the display screen is configured to display the summary text that is semantically fluent, wherein the second text is obtained by removing the each word from the first text one by one such that probability of ignoring key information is reduced.
</claims>
</document>
