<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/02,H04B7/0456,H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
MAJMUNDAR, MILAP
CHOPRA, ADITYA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68314805
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitation of beamforming gains for fronthaul links for 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
Precoder weights can be indicated to a carrier unit to increase network efficiency. To indicate precoder weights to the carrier unit, various types of precoding data can be used to schedule user equipment. For example, a baseband unit can compress precoding coefficients for channel state information reference signals for a remote radio unit and for a demodulation reference signal (DMRS) to reduce a signaling cost between the remote radio unit and the baseband unit. Because both the baseband unit and the remote radio unit can have access to the basis vectors the basis vectors can be multiplied by coefficients to transmit the compressed weight of the basis vectors. Thus, allowing the remote radio unit to reconstruct the basis vector for the channel state information reference signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: sending channel coefficient data representative of a channel coefficient to a first device, wherein the channel coefficient is based on a first precoder matrix generated based on a characteristic of a channel, and wherein an uplink reference signal was received via the channel; and sending a transmission to a second device, wherein the transmission is based on a second precoder matrix generated based on channel state data received from the second device in response to the sending the channel coefficient data to the first device, and based on a demodulation reference signal associated with the second device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: compressing the channel coefficient data resulting in compressed channel coefficient data; and reducing a payload associated with front haul communications between a network device and the first device based on the compressed channel coefficient data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting the compressed channel coefficient data to the first device; and reducing a cost associated with the front haul communications between the network device and the first device based on the compressed channel coefficient data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the channel coefficient is a first channel coefficient, and wherein the operations further comprise: compressing second channel coefficient data representative of a second channel coefficient associated with the second precoder matrix.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: projecting the second precoder matrix onto a basis vector accessible to a network device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: prior to the sending the channel coefficient data, determining the channel coefficient associated with a linear combination of basis vectors associated with a network device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the channel coefficient is associated with a basis vector of a group of basis vectors accessible to the second device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving the channel state data from the second device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first device and the second device are communicatively coupled.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first device is a radio unit device and the second device is a user equipment device.
11. A method, comprising: generating, by a device comprising a processor, a first precoder matrix based on a characteristic of a channel over which an uplink signal was received; determining, by the device, a channel coefficient associated with a linear combination of basis vectors associated with a network device and based on the first precoder matrix; generating, by the device, a second precoder matrix based on channel state data received from a user equipment device in response to a first transmission of the channel coefficient to a radio unit device; and applying, by the device, the second precoder matrix to a second transmission and a demodulation reference signal.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the second transmission is associated with the channel state data, and wherein the demodulation reference signal is associated with the user equipment device.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: reducing, by the device, a size of a communication associated with a front haul between the network device and the radio unit device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the channel coefficient is a first channel coefficient, and wherein the method further comprises: prior to the applying the second precoder matrix, compressing, by the device, a second channel coefficient associated with the second precoder matrix.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying, by the device, the second precoder matrix to a basis vector stored by the network device.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: projecting, by the device, the second precoder matrix onto a basis vector accessible to the network device.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: facilitating a first transmission of a channel coefficient to a first device, wherein the channel coefficient is based on a first precoder matrix generated based on a characteristic of a channel, and wherein an uplink reference signal was received via the channel; and facilitating a second transmission to a second device, wherein the second transmission is based on a second precoder matrix generated based on channel state data received from the second device in response to the facilitating the first transmission of the channel coefficient to the first device, and based on a demodulation reference signal associated with the second device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the channel coefficient is associated with a basis vector of a group of basis vectors accessible to the second device.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: prior to the facilitating the second transmission, determining the channel coefficient associated with a linear combination of basis vectors associated with a network device.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: reducing a size of a communication associated with a front haul between a network device and the first device.
</claims>
</document>
