<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA MOTOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WESTBROOK, Shaun K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR VARIOUS VEHICLE-RELATED APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for various vehicle-related applications is provided. The system includes a brain-machine interface (BMI) including a plurality of electrodes and control circuitry coupled to the plurality of electrodes. The control circuitry captures a plurality of brainwave signals via the plurality of electrodes and determines control information indicative of an intention to perform a specific task using one or more components of the vehicle. The control information is determined based on the captured plurality of brainwave signals. Further, the control circuitry controls the one or more components of the vehicle so as to provide assistance to perform the specific task. The one or more components of the vehicle are controlled based on the determined control information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for a vehicle, the system comprising: a Brain-Machine Interface (BMI) comprising a plurality of electrodes and control circuitry coupled to the plurality of electrodes, wherein the control circuitry: captures a plurality of brainwave signals via the plurality of electrodes; determines control information indicative of an intention to perform a specific task using one or more components of the vehicle, wherein the control information is determined based on the captured plurality of brainwave signals; and controls the one or more components of the vehicle so as to provide assistance to perform the specific task, wherein the one or more components of the vehicle are controlled based on the determined control information.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control circuitry detects a plurality of event-related potential (ERP) signals in the captured plurality of brainwave signals, wherein the plurality of ERP signals is indicative of the intention to perform the specific task.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein one of the detected plurality of ERP signals is a P300 signal.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the control circuitry determines the control information based on the P300 signal in the detected plurality of ERP signals.
5. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a helmet, wherein the BMI is included in the helmet, and wherein the vehicle is a two-wheeler vehicle.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the specific task corresponds to a vehicle acrobatic maneuver of a plurality of vehicle acrobatic maneuvers which comprises a wheelie, a stoppie, a hyper spin, a switchback, or a burnout.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the specific task corresponds to a vehicle driving maneuver of a plurality of vehicle driving maneuvers which comprises a left turning maneuver, a right turning maneuver, a braking maneuver, a reversing maneuver, an accelerating maneuver, a decelerating maneuver, a parking maneuver, a traffic circling maneuver, a stopping maneuver, and an overtaking maneuver.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more components of the vehicle comprises a user assistive device, wherein the specific task corresponds to a hands-free control of the user assistive device, wherein the user assistive device is one of a wheelchair, an advanced driver-assistance system (ADAS), an in-vehicle infotainment system, an in-vehicle wearable electronic device, a seat control system, a lighting control system, an outer rear view mirror (ORVM), an in-vehicle display device, or a heads-up display (HUD).
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the one or more components of the vehicle comprises an in-vehicle display device communicatively coupled to the control circuitry, and wherein the control circuitry: controls the in-vehicle display device to display a graphical user interface (GUI) comprising a plurality of user-selectable options, wherein each user-selectable option of the plurality of user-selectable options corresponds to an accessibility feature associated with the vehicle; detects, from the captured plurality of brainwave signals, a first steady state visually evoked potential (SSVEP) signal which is indicative of a visual stimuli to a first user-selectable option of the plurality of user-selectable options; determines the control information based on the detection of the first SSVEP signal, wherein the specific task corresponds to an intent to select the first user-selectable option; and controls the in-vehicle display device to select the first user-selectable option based on the determined control information.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is a two-wheeler vehicle, wherein the one or more components of the two-wheeler vehicle comprises a steering portion and an actuator coupled to the steering portion of the two-wheeler vehicle, wherein the determined control information is indicative of an intent to perform a turning maneuver using the two-wheeler vehicle, and wherein the control circuitry: determines a first torque value indicative of a steering torque exerted on the steering portion of the two-wheeler vehicle; determines a second torque value indicative of a corrective torque to be exerted on the steering portion for a stable state of the two-wheeler vehicle, based on the determined control information; and controls an actuator to drive the steering portion of the two-wheeler vehicle based on a deviation of the determined first torque value from the second torque value.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the steering portion comprises a handlebar that is coupled to a front wheel of the two-wheeler vehicle and the actuator, and wherein the actuator drives the steering portion by application of a torque on the handlebar to adjust a displacement-direction of the front wheel, wherein the torque is equal to the deviation.
12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is a two-wheeler vehicle, wherein the one or more components of the two-wheeler vehicle comprises a steering portion and an actuator coupled to the steering portion of the two-wheeler vehicle, wherein the determined control information is indicative of an intent to balance the two-wheeler vehicle, and wherein the control circuitry: detects a falling state of the two-wheeler vehicle in a course of a journey, based on a set of ride parameters and the determined control information, wherein the falling state corresponds to a first direction in which the two-wheeler vehicle leans to fall, and controls the actuator to turn a front wheel of the two-wheeler vehicle in a second direction that is opposite to the first direction to change the falling state of the two-wheeler vehicle to a stable state of the two-wheeler vehicle.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the set of ride parameters comprises a steering angle of the steering portion, an acceleration value of the two-wheeler vehicle in a vehicle-width direction, a lean angle of the two-wheeler vehicle, a speed of the two-wheeler vehicle, and a G-force value on the two-wheeler vehicle in the vehicle-width direction.
14. The system according to claim 1, wherein the vehicle is a two-wheeler vehicle, wherein the one or more components of the two-wheeler vehicle comprises a self-balancing system, and wherein the control circuitry controls the self-balancing system to adjust a set of self-balancing parameters of the two-wheeler vehicle to change a falling state of the two-wheeler vehicle to a stable state of the two-wheeler vehicle.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the set of self-balancing parameters comprises a positive trail length, a negative trail length, a lean angle, or a gyroscopic parameter.
16. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control circuitry collects memory access information indicative of whether a long term memory or a short term memory of user's brain is accessed while performing the specific task using the vehicle.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the control circuitry determines a driver experience level based on the collected memory access information.
18. The system according to claim 16, wherein the control circuitry: constructs a training dataset comprising the memory access information for each of a plurality of specific tasks performed using the vehicle; builds a deep learning model by training a deep neural network on the constructed training dataset; and calibrates a level of the control of the one or more components of the vehicle based on the built deep learning model.
19. A vehicle comprising: control circuitry communicatively coupled to a Brain-Machine Interface (BMI) comprising a plurality of electrodes, wherein the control circuitry: captures a plurality of brainwave signals via the plurality of electrodes; determines control information indicative of an intention to perform a specific task using one or more components of the vehicle, wherein the control information is determined based on the captured plurality of brainwave signals; and controls the one or more components of the vehicle so as to provide assistance to perform the specific task, wherein the one or more components of the vehicle are controlled based on the determined control information.
20. A method for providing assistance for controlling components of a vehicle, the method comprising: capturing a plurality of brainwave signals via a plurality of electrodes of a Brain-Machine Interface (BMI), determining control information indicative of an intention to perform a specific task using one or more components of the vehicle, wherein the control information is determined based on the captured plurality of brainwave signals; and controlling the one or more components of the vehicle so as to provide assistance to perform the specific task, wherein the one or more components of the vehicle are controlled based on the determined control information.
</claims>
</document>
