<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F21/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF LOUISIANA AT LAFAYETTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAKHOTIA, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423241
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR AUTOMATIC CREATION OF MALWARE DETECTION SIGNATURE
</title>

<abstract>
Herein disclosed is a method for automatically extracting signatures for malware. The method takes advantage of a fundamental economic requirement of malware authors: they must reuse code to manage the time investment. The method disclosed finds shared code between malware and generates signatures from the code. A method is also disclosed for separating code that is found predominantly, if not exceptionally, in malware from code that may be found in benign program.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for creating and detecting a signature for a collection of one or more malware comprising: providing a system comprising: a Semantic Indexer; a Procedure Database; and a Signature Generator; wherein the Semantic Indexer populates the Procedure Database; wherein the Procedure Database stores two or more semantically similar procedures; wherein the Signature Generator generates signatures for the one or more malware; computing semantic indexes for procedures of one or more programs, and storing said procedures in the Procedure Database; collecting a set of all procedures in the collection of the one or more malware for which to create signatures; partitioning the set of all procedures of the one or more malware into groups of semantically similar procedures; removing from the partition the groups of semantically similar procedures that are not good candidates for creating signatures; constructing a signature for each of the groups of semantically similar procedures remaining in the partition; and combining the signatures of the selected semantically similar procedures to construct the signature of the one or more malware.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method for computing semantic indexes for procedures of one or more programs comprises: disassembling the program; breaking the disassembled program into one or more procedures; breaking each said procedure into one or more blocks of code such that said blocks do not overlap in memory; computing a semantics of each said block of code; computing the semantic index for each procedure; storing a procedure information record in the Procedure Database; and assigning a tag to each procedure identifying the procedure as malicious or benign; wherein each semantic index in the Procedure Database maintains one or more procedure records.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the semantic index is computed using the canonical representation of the semantics of the one or more blocks of the procedure.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the each procedure information record comprises, for each block of code: a start address for the block of code; an end address for the block of code; the instructions in the block of code; and the semantics of the block of code.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein groups of semantically similar procedures that may appear in benign-ware are not good candidates for creating signatures.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the group of semantically similar procedures is a good candidate for creating signatures if the size of the procedure selected is appropriately sized.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the size of the procedure is measured according to the number of bytes in the procedure's code.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the size of the procedure is measured according to the number of machine instructions contained in the procedure's code.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the size of the procedure is measured according to the number of blocks of code in the procedure.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein a machine learning system is trained to identify whether the procedure is malware or benign.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a group of semantically similar procedures is a good candidate for creating signatures if the group covers a certain minimum percentage of the one or more malware for which signature is being created.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein a group of semantically similar procedures is a good candidate for creating signatures if the group of semantically similar procedures is not highly correlated to a group of semantically similar procedures already selected.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein a method for automatically constructing a signature for a group of one or more semantically similar procedures comprises: constructing a regular expression for each procedure in the group of one or more procedures; creating a single regular expression for the entire group of one or more procedures; and creating a signature for the group of one or more similar procedures.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein a method for automatically extracting a signature for a group of one or more procedures that are semantically similar comprises: constructing a regular expression for each procedure in the group, comprising: collecting all blocks of code in the group of semantically similar procedures; partitioning the collection of blocks of code into groups of semantically similar blocks of code; constructing a block signature for each group of semantically similar blocks of code; generating a unique identifier for each group of semantically similar blocks of code and assigning the identifier to each block in the group; creating a regular expression sequence of block identifiers for each procedure in the group of one or more semantically similar procedures, comprising block identifiers in the sequence sorted on the memory address of the blocks; creating a single regular expression for the entire group of one or more procedures, comprising: creating a union of all procedure regular expressions; and minimizing said union of all procedure regular expressions; and creating a signature for the group of similar procedures, comprising constructing a procedure signature by replacing each block identifier with block signature of the corresponding group of similar block of code
15. The method of claim 14, wherein a method for constructing a signature for a group of one or more blocks of code that are semantically similar comprises: creating a sequence of hexadecimal numbers representing the instructions in the one or more blocks of code, with the said sequences punctuated using a special marker to mark instruction boundaries; constructing a regular expression comprising a union of all sequences of hexadecimal numbers punctuated with special markers; minimizing the regular expression; removing from the regular expression one or more special markers identifying instruction boundaries; and translating the regular expression into a sequential signature.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein a signature of malware is constructed by constructing one or more rules as follows: of a subset of one or more of the procedure signatures, any one must appear; of a subset of one or more of the procedure signatures, all must appear; or of a subset of one or more of the procedure signatures, at least a certain proportion must appear; or any combination of these criteria.
17. The method of claim 14, where a regular expression for each procedure comprises one or more sequence block identifiers separated by a symbol denoting a gap in memory between consecutive blocks of code.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein groups of semantically similar procedures that may appear in benign-ware are not good candidates for creating signatures, and wherein a group of semantically similar procedures may occur in benign-ware if one or more procedure in the group is known to belong to a benign program;
19. The method of claim 1, wherein groups of semantically similar procedures that may appear in benign-ware are not good candidates for creating signatures, and wherein a group of semantically similar procedures may occur in benign-ware if one or more procedures in the group has a name that indicates it may be benign.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein groups of semantically similar procedures that may appear in benign-ware are not good candidates for creating signatures, and wherein a group of semantically similar procedures may occur in benign-ware if the Procedure Database contains a very high number of procedures semantically similar to the group.
</claims>
</document>
