<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARCELLA, PHILIP
MCKENNA, CHRISTOPHER
RIVIELLO, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
48573234
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Identifying a User
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identifying a user are disclosed. One aspect comprises providing an address element and a class identifier, receiving a request for a file, wherein the request comprises the address element and the class identifier, comparing the class identifier to a comparator element, providing a first file if the class identifier is within the comparator element, and providing a second file if the class identifier is outside the comparator element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive a request for a web browser homepage, wherein the request comprises a time element indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; determine whether the date is within a range of dates; and provide a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the request further comprises an address element indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the request further comprises a class identifier indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
5. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: associate a time element with a user interface element, wherein the time element is indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; receive a selection of the user interface element; send, based on the selection of the user interface element, a request for a web browser homepage, wherein the request comprises the time element; determine whether the date is within a range of dates; and receive a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the request further comprises an address element and a class identifier, and wherein the address element and the class identifier are indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
8. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: determine whether a time element associated with a request for a web browser homepage is within a range of dates, wherein the time element is indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; and provide a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the request further comprises an address element indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the request further comprises a class identifier indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive a request for a web browser homepage, wherein the request comprises a time element indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; determine whether the date is within a range of dates; and provide a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the request further comprises an address element and a class identifier, and wherein the address element and the class identifier are indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: associate a time element with a user interface element, wherein the time element is indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; receive by the computing device, a selection of the user interface element; send, based on the selection of the user interface element, a request for a web browser homepage, wherein the request comprises the time element; determine whether the date is within a range of dates; and receive a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the request further comprises an address element and a class identifier, and wherein the address element and the class identifier are indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: determine whether a time element associated with a request for a web browser homepage is within a range of dates, wherein the time element is indicative of a date that a service was provisioned; and provide a web page comprising a version of the web browser homepage, wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a new user experience when the date is within the range of dates, and wherein the version of the web browser homepage comprises a veteran user experience when the date is outside the range of dates.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the request further comprises an address element and a class identifier, and wherein the address element and the class identifier are indicative of a Uniform Resource Locator (URL) for the web browser homepage.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the range of dates is based on one or more of a user level, a user authority, a user history, or a user location.
</claims>
</document>
