<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,G05B19/4155,G06K9/62,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/04,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZUME
</assignee>

<inventors>
SATCHELL, CHRISTOPHER J.
GOLDBERG, JOSHUA GOULED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FOOD FULFILLMENT WITH USER SELECTION OF INSTANCES OF FOOD ITEMS AND RELATED SYSTEMS, ARTICLES AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A fulfillment system presents attribute information (e.g., images, physical attributes) for food items in an inventory, allowing consumers to select individual instances of food items physical attributes, determined classifications, and predicted times of change of classification, for delivery or pickup. The fulfillment system may automatically capture images of the instance of a food item, and sense or determine physical characteristics, for example weight, size or spatial dimensions, density, color, non-visible wavelengths luster, amount of marbling, color, texture, scent (e.g., chemical compounds experiences as scent), tactile, sound and/or resistance to pressure or force, etc. The fulfillment system may identify a set of instances of food items of a selected type that possess specified physical characteristics, and present the set to the consumer for selection. Automated equipment can retrieve selected instances of food items and assemble selected instances into orders, for instance grocery orders, meal kits or assembled food items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: providing a user interface with a presentation of food items; receiving a first input that specifies a type of food item through the user interface; in response to receiving the first input, identifying, from a data store, a set of instances of food items comprising a plurality of instances of food items of the type of food item specified by the first input, wherein the set of instances of food items are each respective vendable items of food from an inventory of instances of food items; for each of the instances of food items in the set of instances of food items, retrieving, from the data store, attribute information of the instances of food items, wherein the attribute information includes an image of each respective instance of the food item, and the attribute information is stored by the data store prior to the identifying of the set of instances of the food items; determining, based in part on a physical characteristic of each respective instance of the food item, a ripeness of each respective instance of the food item; causing a presentation of a portion of the retrieved attribute information of the instances of food items, the presented portion of the attribute information including the image and the ripeness of each respective instance of the food item; receiving an indication of a selection of at least one of the instances of the food items; and causing the at least one of the instances of the food items identified by the selection to be retrieved to fulfill an order.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the presentation of attribute information includes causing the presentation of a weight or a spatial dimension of the respective instances of the food items.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based in part on a physical characteristic of a meat food item, a marbling of the meat food item; and causing the presentation of the marbling of the meat food item.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein causing the presentation of the portion of the retrieved attribute information of the instances of food items includes causing the presentation of information that represents a respective firmness, luster, or density of the instances of food items.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second input that specifies at least one desired attribute of the type of food item, and wherein identifying a set of instances of food items includes identifying instances of food items having the at least one desired attribute specified by the second input.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining whether a total number of instances of food items satisfying a set of search criteria based on the first and second inputs exceeds a threshold, and wherein identifying the set of instances of food items includes selecting a subset of the total number of instances of food items to present via the user interface.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a subset of instances of food items to present via the user interface based on one or more of a current instances of food items available at a single inventory or at least one or more previous selections.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on a first number of selected instances of food items, determining a set of inventory locations that have an inventory from which the selected instances of food items can be fulfilled; and reducing the set of instances of food items for presentation based on the current inventory available at one or more of the set of inventory locations.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: for at least one of the instances of food items, at least temporarily preventing any further identifying of the one instance of food item for a second user in response to a subsequent first input, until a termination criterion is reached.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically assembling two or more of the instances of the food items identified by the selection to an assembled food item or meal kit.
11. A processor-based fulfillment system, comprising: an inventory subsystem to store food items and attribute information associated with the stored food items; a production subsystem comprising one or more conveyors, robots, and packaging equipment; and at least one processor configured to control one or more operations of the inventory subsystem and the production subsystem, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: provide a user interface with a presentation of food items; receive a first input that specifies a type of food item through the user interface; in response to receiving the first input, identify, from a data store, a set of instances of food items comprising a plurality of instances of food items of the type of food item specified by the first input, wherein the set of instances of food items are each respective vendable items of food from an inventory of instances of food items; for each of the instances of food items in the set of instances of food items, retrieve, from the data store, attribute information of the instances of food items, wherein the attribute information includes an image of each respective instance of the food item, and the attribute information is stored by the data store prior to the identifying of the set of instances of the food items; determine, based in part on a physical characteristic of each respective instance of the food item, a ripeness of each respective instance of the food item; cause a presentation of a portion of the retrieved attribute information of the instances of food items, the presented portion of the attribute information including the image and the ripeness of each respective instance of the food item; receive an indication of a selection of at least one of the instances of the food items; and cause the at least one of the instances of the food items identified by the selection to be retrieved to fulfill an order.
12. The processor-based fulfillment system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: cause presentation of information that represents a respective firmness, luster, or density of the instances of food items.
13. The processor-based fulfillment system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive a second input that specifies at least one desired attribute of the type of food item; and identify instances of food items having the at least one desired attribute specified by the second input.
14. A method, comprising: for each of a plurality of instances of the food items of a single type of food item, capturing via an image sensor an image of the instance of the food item; sensing via a sensor at least one physical characteristic of the instance of food item that characterizes the instance of the food item; based on the image and the at least one physical characteristic of the instance of the food item, determining a classification of the instance of food item, and storing to a data store on one or more processor-readable media in a form retrievable for presentation, the captured image and a value the represents the at least one physical characteristic and the determined classification along with an identifier that identifies the instance of the food item at least until the instance of the food item is delivered to a user.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein sensing the at least one physical characteristic of the instance of the food item includes capturing a weight, a physical spatial dimension, a firmness, a sound in response to the instance of food being tapped, or a smell of the instance of the food item.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein determining a classification includes determining a ripeness of the instance of the food item via at least one processor and storing an indication of the determined level of ripeness of the instance of the food item in the data store associated with the identifier.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the ripeness of the instance of the food item includes assessing one or more colors, luster, firmness, sound, density or scent based at least in part on the image and/or the sensed physical characteristic of the instance of the food item.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the classification includes determining a first classification of the instance of food items from a set of classifications for the type of instance of food item, and the method further comprises: determining a time when the instance of food item will change from the first classification to a second and different classification.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining at least a second physical characteristic based at least in part on the sensed at least one physical characteristic.
20. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving other product data of the instance of food item from a supply chain of the instance of food item, and wherein determining a classification of the instance of food item is based at least in part on at least a portion of the other product data.
</claims>
</document>
