<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/3234,G06F1/329
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMBARDEKAR, AMOL ASHOK
ZARAR, SHUAYB M.
ZHANG, JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70110358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELECTIVELY CONTROLLING MEMORY POWER FOR SCHEDULED COMPUTATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system comprising a scheduled computation module, a work memory storage device, and a controller. The scheduled computation module is configured to receive and process data values according to a predetermined access pattern. The work memory storage device includes one or more work memory banks The controller is configured to, based on scheduling information associated with the predetermined access pattern, (1) provide data values held by the one or more work memory banks to the scheduled computation module, and (2) selectively control a power state of the one or more work memory banks
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system, comprising: a scheduled computation module configured to receive and process data values according to a predetermined access pattern; a work memory storage device including one or more work memory banks; and a controller configured to, based on scheduling information associated with the predetermined access pattern, (1) provide data values held by the one or more work memory banks to the scheduled computation module, and (2) selectively control a power state of the one or more work memory banks
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the scheduling information includes, for each data value held by the one or more work memory banks, a scheduling tag indicating when to use that data value.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the predetermined access pattern is determined by a plurality of scheduling tags indicating when to use the data values.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to read information from an active work memory bank of the one or more work memory banks, and wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more work memory banks includes selectively putting all of the work memory banks except for the active memory bank into a power-saving snooze mode.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more work memory banks includes, for a work memory bank the one or more work memory banks, determining a wait time based on the scheduling information held by that work memory bank, and based on the wait time, selectively putting that work memory bank into a power-saving snooze mode.
6. The computer system of claim 5, wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more work memory banks further includes, for that work memory bank placed in the power-saving snooze mode, pre-emptively waking that work memory bank from the power-saving snooze mode, thereby causing that work memory bank to be in an active mode in time to provide a next data value to the scheduled computation module.
7. The computer system of claim 5, wherein the wait time is defined by a scheduled duration between reading a first data value and reading a second data value.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the controller provides a default value between reading the first data value and reading the second data value.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more work memory banks includes determining that no accesses to a work memory bank are required for providing data values to the scheduled computation module, and based on such determination, selectively putting that work memory bank into a power-saving deep sleep mode.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the scheduling information and data values define a compression-encoded matrix including a plurality of rows, each row having a plurality of defined element values that each have a scheduling tag indicating a schedule for providing that defined element to the scheduled computation module.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the compression-encoded matrix is a sparsity-encoded matrix, and the plurality of defined element values for a row includes a plurality of non-zero element values in the row.
12. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the compression-encoded matrix is a transition-encoded matrix, and the plurality of defined element values for a row includes a plurality of boundary element values in a row.
13. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising an auxiliary storage device configured to provide data values, wherein the data values are packed into the one or more work memory banks so that at least one work memory bank is an unoccupied work memory bank holding no data values, and wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more memory banks includes putting the unoccupied work memory bank in a power-saving deep sleep mode.
14. In a computer system having a work memory storage device including one or more work memory banks configured to hold data values and a scheduled computation module configured to receive and process data values according to a predefined access pattern, a method comprising: accessing scheduling information associated with the predetermined access pattern; based on the scheduling information, providing data values held by the one or more work memory banks to the scheduled computation module; and based on the scheduling information, selectively controlling a power state of the one or more work memory banks
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the scheduling information includes, for each data value held by the one or more work memory banks, a scheduling tag indicating when to use that data value, and the predetermined access pattern is determined by a plurality of scheduling tags indicating when to use the data values.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein selectively controlling the power state of the one or more work memory banks includes, for a work memory bank the one or more work memory banks: determining a wait time based on the scheduling information held by the work memory bank, and based on the wait time, selectively putting the work memory bank into a power-saving snooze mode; and pre-emptively waking the work memory bank from the power-saving snooze mode, thereby causing the work memory bank to be in an active mode in time to provide a next data value to the scheduled computation module.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the scheduling information and data values define a compression-encoded matrix including a plurality of rows, each row having a plurality of defined element values that each have a scheduling tag indicating a schedule for providing that defined element to the scheduled computation module.
18. A computer system, comprising: a scheduled computation module configured to receive and process data values according to a predetermined access pattern; a work memory storage device including one or more work memory banks; and a controller configured to, based on scheduling information associated with the predetermined access pattern, (1) provide data values held by the one or more work memory banks to the scheduled computation module, and (2) selectively control a power state of the one or more work memory banks, including, for a work memory bank of the one or more work memory banks: determining a wait time based on the scheduling information held by the work memory bank, and based on the wait time, selectively putting the work memory bank into a power-saving snooze mode; and pre-emptively waking the work memory bank from the power-saving snooze mode, thereby causing the work memory bank to be in an active mode in time to provide a next data value to the scheduled computation module.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the scheduling information includes, for each data value held by the one or more work memory banks, a scheduling tag indicating when to use that data value, and the predetermined access pattern is determined by a plurality of scheduling tags indicating when to use the data values.
20. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the scheduling information and data values define a compression-encoded matrix including a plurality of rows, each row having a plurality of defined element values that each have a scheduling tag indicating a schedule for providing that defined element to the scheduled computation module.
</claims>
</document>
