<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/22,G06F16/23,G06F16/25,G06F16/955,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERGERON, PAUL D.
MIAO, JUNZHE
SINGH, GURBIR
TOMLINSON, TED J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71124269
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING AND EXTRACTING ADDRESSES WITHIN CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for processing data. During operation, the system extracts text windows of varying length from text in one or more content items associated with an entity. Next, the system applies a machine learning model to features for the text windows to produce scores representing the likelihoods that the text windows contain addresses. The system then identifies, based on the scores and validation rules applied to the text windows, one of the text windows as an address for the entity. Finally, the system stores the selected text window as the address for the entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: extracting text windows of varying length from text in one or more content items associated with an entity; applying, by a computer system, a machine learning model to features for the text windows to produce scores representing likelihoods that the text windows contain addresses; identifying, by the computer system, based on the scores and validation rules applied to the text windows, one of the text windows as an address for the entity; and storing the selected one of the text windows as the address for the entity.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the features from the text windows.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the features from the text windows comprises: generating hash values from tokens in a text window in the text windows; and creating a feature vector for the text window by updating elements of the feature vector based on indexes represented by the hash values.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the features from the text windows comprises: generating binary features indicating the presence or absence of address components in the text windows.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the address components comprise at least one of: a zip code; a state abbreviation; a state; a compass direction; a post office box; a street type; and a number at a start of a text window.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting the text windows of varying length from the text in the one or more content items associated with the entity comprises: identifying a token representing an address ending in the text; and generating a subset of the text windows of varying length to end at the token.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting the text windows of varying length from the text in the one or more content items associated with the entity comprises: generating the text windows to contain varying numbers of tokens associated with valid addresses.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the one of the text windows as the address for the entity comprises: identifying, based on the scores, a subset of the text windows with highest scores from the machine learning model; applying the validation rules to address labels for tokens in the subset of the text windows to generate adjusted scores for the subset of the text windows; and selecting the one of the text windows with a highest adjusted score as the address for the entity.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein selecting the one of the text windows as the address for the entity further comprises: updating the subset of the text windows based on Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) of the one or more content items from which the text windows were extracted.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein applying the validation rules to address labels for tokens in the subset of the text windows comprises at least one of: validating a start of an address at a beginning of a text window; validating a number of tokens associated with an address label; and validating a road label associated with the text window.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: cleaning the text in the one or more content items prior to extracting the text windows from the text.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein cleaning the text in the content item comprises at least one of: removing phone numbers and email addresses from the text; removing tokens that frequently appear next to addresses from the text; normalizing whitespace in the text; normalizing post office box variations in the text; and removing formatting in the text.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: extract text windows of varying length from text in one or more content items associated with an entity; apply a machine learning model to features for the text windows to produce scores representing likelihoods that the text windows contain addresses; identify, based on the scores and validation rules applied to the text windows, one of the text windows as an address for the entity; and store the selected one of the text windows as the address for the entity.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: generate the features from the text windows
15. The system of claim 14, wherein generating the features from the text windows comprises: generating binary features indicating the presence or absence of address components in the text windows.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the address components comprise at least one of: a zip code; a state abbreviation; a state; a compass direction; a post office box; a street type; and a number at a start of a text window.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein extracting the text windows of varying length from the text in the one or more content items associated with the entity comprises: generating the text windows to contain varying numbers of tokens associated with valid addresses.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein selecting the one of the text windows as the address for the entity comprises: identifying, based on the scores and Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) of the one or more content items, a subset of the text windows with highest scores from the machine learning model; applying the validation rules to address labels for tokens in the subset of the text windows to generate adjusted scores for the subset of the text windows; and selecting the one of the text windows with a highest adjusted score as the address for the entity.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein applying the validation rules to address labels for tokens in the subset of the text windows comprises at least one of: validating a start of an address at a beginning of a text window; validating a number of tokens associated with an address label; and validating a road label associated with the text window.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: extracting text windows of varying length from text in one or more content items associated with an entity; applying a machine learning model to features for the text windows to produce scores representing the likelihoods that the text windows contain addresses; identifying, based on the scores and validation rules applied to the text windows, one of the text windows as an address for the entity; and storing the selected one of the text windows as the address for the entity.
</claims>
</document>
