<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0484,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRAIN F.I.T. IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FORD, JOHN P.
SUDRE, GUSTAVO P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND MAGNETIC IMAGING DEVICES TO INVENTORY HUMAN BRAIN CORTICAL FUNCTION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for determining cognitive impairment, an example of which includes accessing a set of epochs of magnetoencephalography (MEG) data of responses of a brain of a test patient to a plurality of auditory stimulus events; processing the set of epochs to identify parameter values one or more of which is based on information from the individual epochs without averaging or otherwise collapsing the epoch data. The parameter values are input into a model that is trained based on the parameters to determine whether the test patient is cognitively impaired. Graphical user interfaces are described for presenting MEG epoch data and a score that correlates to a likelihood of the test individual being cognitively impaired.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing multiple sets of epochs of magnetoencephalography (MEG) data of responses of a test patient to auditory stimulus events, the responses detected by a plurality of sensors, each set of epochs corresponding to one of the sensors; selecting one or more sets of epochs from one or more sensors based on stability among the responses to the auditory stimulus events detected by the one or more sensors; selecting a feature of the epochs based on reproducibility of values of the selected feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets compared to reproducibility of values of other features of the epochs; sorting the epochs in the selected one or more sets by the values of the selected feature; and generating data for displaying a heatmap that visualizes the epochs sorted in the selected one or more sets.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least a first set of epochs in the multiple sets is generated in a first visit of the test patient and at least a second set of epochs in the multiple sets is generated in a second visit of the test patient on a different day.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are carried by a helmet worn by the test patients, and the plurality of sensors are distributed on different locations of the helmet.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selected one or more sets of epochs corresponds to the one or more sensors that are located ipsilateral to the auditory stimulus events.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more sets of epochs based on stability of the responses to the auditory stimulus events comprises: for each of one or more candidate sensors: (i) separating the set of epochs corresponding to the candidate sensor into two or more subsets, (ii) averaging the epochs in each of the two or more subsets to generate two or more averaged epochs, (iii) determining a metric of sensor stability corresponding to a correlation among the two or more averaged epochs, (iv) repeating at least steps (i), (ii), (iii) multiple times to generate a plurality of values of the metric of sensor stability, and (v) determining a statistical value of the plurality of values of the metric of sensor stability; selecting one or more candidate sensors based on the statistical value corresponding to each of the selected one or more candidate sensors, the selected one or more sets of epochs corresponding to the one or more selected candidate sensors.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting one or more sets of epochs based on stability of the responses to the auditory stimulus events comprises: determining, for each of one or more candidate sensors, values of a metric of sensor stability among the epochs in the set corresponding the each of one or more candidate sensors; determining, for each of the one or more candidate sensors, a variance metric calculated from the values of the metric of sensor stability; selecting one or more candidate sensors based on the variance metric corresponding to each of the selected candidate sensors, the selected one or more sets of epochs corresponding to the one or more selected candidate sensors.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets based on reproducibility of the values of the selected features in the epochs of the selected one or more sets comprises: dividing the selected one or more sets of epochs into two or more subsets of epochs, each subset corresponding to the responses generated in a different visit of the test patient; generating, for each of a plurality of candidate features, two or more metric vectors, each metric vector comprising one or more metric values of the candidate feature, each metric vector corresponding to each of the two or more subsets of epochs; determining, for each of the plurality of candidate features, a correlation among the two or more metric vectors; and selecting one or more candidate features whose correlation among the two or more metric vectors is above a threshold, wherein the selected feature is selected from the selected one or more candidate features.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein selecting the feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets based on reproducibility of the values of the selected features in the epochs of the selected one or more sets further comprises: inputting the selected one or more candidate features into a machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model is a decision-tree classifier, a support vector machine, or a neural network; and using the machine learning model to select the feature, wherein the machine learning model outputs a determination of whether a participant is cognitively impaired.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets based on reproducibility of the values of the selected features in the epochs of the selected one or more sets comprises: determining, for each of a plurality of candidate features, a range of values of the candidate feature among normal volunteers; determining, for each of the plurality of candidate features, a number of cognitively-impaired individuals whose values of the candidate feature are outside the range of values among normal volunteers; and selecting the feature based on the number of cognitively-impaired individuals whose values of the candidate feature are outside the range of values among normal volunteers for each of the plurality of candidate features.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets based on reproducibility of the values of the selected features in the epochs of the selected one or more sets comprises: determining, for each of a plurality of candidate features, a correlation of the candidate feature with a set of cognitive tests; and selecting the feature based on the correlations of the candidate features with the set of cognitive tests.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the feature of the epochs in the selected one or more sets based on reproducibility of the values of the selected features in the epochs of the selected one or more sets comprises: conducting nonparametric permutation tests for a plurality of candidate features; and selecting one or more the candidate features having results of the nonparametric permutation tests that exceed a threshold, the selected feature being one of the selected candidate features.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a value of the selected feature is determined based on latency of a peak in an epoch compared to a temporal reference point.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the epochs in the selected one or more sets comprises first peaks, second peaks, and third peaks, and a value of the selected feature is determined based on a number of one of the first peaks, second peaks, or third peaks that exceed a threshold amplitude.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a value of the selected feature is determined based an amplitude of a type of peak in the epochs in the selected one or more sets.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a value of the selected feature is determined based on a value of onset of a type of peak in the epochs in the selected one or more sets.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: inputting the data of the epochs to a machine learning model; and providing, by the machine learning model, whether the test patient is cognitively impaired.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the heatmap arranges the epochs in the selected one or more sets sorted by the selected feature in a first axis and displays changes in values of the epochs over time in a second axis.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the heatmap graphically presents a first color to represent a positive polarity of the epochs in the selected one or more sets and a second color to represent a negative polarity of the epochs in the selected one or more sets.
19. A graphical user interface, comprising: a first display area configured to display a heatmap, the heatmap graphically presenting a plurality of epochs representing magnetoencephalography (MEG) data of responses of a brain of a test individual to a plurality of stimulus events, at least one of the epochs comprising a first peak, a second peak, and a third peak, the heatmap graphically presenting a change in color to distinguish among the first peak, the second peak, and the third peak; a second display area configured to display a timeline of a change in values of a first feature in one or more runs of MEG scans, each run generating a set of MEG data, the first feature representing a measurement of the first peak, the second peak, or the third peak, the heatmap displayed in the first display area corresponding to the set of MEG data generated in one of the runs; and a graphical element presented in the first display area and located at an area that corresponds to the measurement for the first feature in the heatmap.
20. A method comprising: acquiring at least one parameter from a heat map of a set of epochs of magnetoencephalography (MEG) data of responses of a brain of a test patient to a plurality of sequential auditory stimulus events, wherein a normal response comprises a tri-peak subset comprising an A peak, a B peak, and a C peak and wherein the heat map comprises the epochs displayed in an order based on the latency of one peak of the tri-peak subset; and comparing a value for the at least one parameter to a model for the at least one parameter to assess a cognitive state of the test patient.
</claims>
</document>
