<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MALPANI, RAVI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748077
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE ANALYTICS USING GROUP DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method, a system, and a computer program product are provided for performing cognitive analytics. Human resource information for respective groups of a business unit of an organization may be extracted from stored business information. The human resource information may include, for employees of the respective groups, salary information and employee experience information. For the respective groups, cost information, productivity information, quality information, and attrition data may be extracted from the business information. At least the human resource information, the cost information, the productivity information, the quality information, and the attrition data may be provided, for the respective groups, to a model trained via machine learning. The model may produce respective scores for the groups. The groups may be ranked based at least partly on the respective scores and the ranking of the groups may be output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for performing cognitive analytics, the computer-implemented method comprising: extracting, by a processing device, for respective groups of a plurality of groups of a business unit of an organization, human resource information from stored business information, the human resource information including, for employees of the respective groups, salary information and employee experience information; extracting, by the processing device, for the respective groups, cost information, productivity information, quality information, and attrition data from the business information; providing, by the processing device, for the respective groups, at least the human resources information, the cost information, the productivity information, the quality information, and the attrition data to a model trained via machine learning, the model producing respective scores for the plurality of groups; ranking, by the processing device, the plurality of groups based at least partly on the respective scores; and outputting, by the processing device, the ranking of the plurality of groups.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cost information comprises capital expenditures, operating expenditures and at least one of travel costs, training costs, and costs per employee.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the business information includes corresponding goals for the respective groups of the plurality of groups; and the computer-implemented method further comprises: determining, by the processing device, ones of the respective groups that are not reaching the corresponding goals, and providing, by the processing device, information regarding the determined ones of the respective groups that are not meeting the corresponding goals and suggesting that action be taken regarding the determined ones of the respective groups.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the processing device, business data of one or more competitors from one or more public sources; comparing, by the processing device, the business data of the one or more competitors with business data of the organization related to at least one of one or more products and one or more services common to the competitor and the organization, and producing, by the processing device, a report indicating one or more business metrics of the organization that are lagging behind one or more business metrics of the one or more competitors based, at least partially on the comparing of the business data of the one or more competitors with the business data of the organization.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: providing, by the processing device, one or more suggestions for improving performance of the organization based on the one or more business metrics of the organization included in the report.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating, by the processing device, a return on investment for the business unit; mining, by the processing device, business data from public sources, the business data being related to at least one of products produced by the organization and services provided by the organization; mining, by the processing device, region-specific data from a plurality of public sources for regions in which at least one respective group of the plurality of groups is located; and predict, by the processing device, future performance of the business unit based at least partly on the mined business data and the mined region-specific data.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: mining, by the processing device, business data from public sources, the business data being related to at least one of products produced by the organization and services provided by the organization; mining, by the processing device, competitor business data from the public sources; mining, by the processing device, region-specific data from a plurality of sources; and recommending, by the processing device, one or more locations for at least one of business expansion and business continuity based on analysis of the mined business data, competitor business data, and region-specific business data.
8. A system for performing cognitive analytics, the system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory connected with the at least one processor, wherein the at least one processor is configured to perform: extracting, for respective groups of a plurality of groups of a business unit of an organization, human resource information from stored business information, the human resource information including, for employees of the respective groups, salary information and employee experience information; extracting, for the respective groups, cost information, productivity information, quality information, and attrition data from the business information; providing, for the respective groups, at least the human resources information, the cost information, the productivity information, the quality information, and the attrition data to a model trained via machine learning, the model producing respective scores for the plurality of groups; ranking the plurality of groups based at least partly on the respective scores; and outputting the ranking of the plurality of groups.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the cost information comprises capital expenditures, operating expenditures and at least one of travel costs, training costs, and costs per employee.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein: the business information includes corresponding goals for the respective groups of the plurality of groups; and the at least one processor is further configured to perform: determining ones of the respective groups that are not reaching the corresponding goals, and providing information regarding the determined ones of the respective groups that are not meeting the corresponding goals and suggesting that action be taken regarding the determined ones of the respective groups.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform: obtaining business data of one or more competitors from one or more public sources; comparing the business data of the one or more competitors with business data of the organization related to at least one of one or more products and one or more services common to the competitor and the organization, and producing a report indicating one or more business metrics of the organization that are lagging behind one or more business metrics of the one or more competitors based, at least partially on the comparing of the business data of the one or more competitors with the business data of the organization.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform: using artificial intelligence to provide one or more suggestions for improving performance of the organization based on the one or more business metrics of the organization included in the report.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform: suggesting one or more managers to be rewarded, the one or more managers being associated with a respective one or more of the plurality of groups having a performance measurement that exceeds a threshold.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to perform: mining business data from public sources, the business data being related to at least one of products produced by the organization and services provided by the organization; mining competitor business data from the public sources; mining region-specific data from a plurality of sources; and recommending one or more locations for at least one of business expansion and business continuity based on analysis of the mined business data, the competitor business data, and the region-specific business data.
15. A computer program product comprising at least one computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith for execution on at least one processor of a computing device, the computer readable program code being configured to: extract, for respective groups of a plurality of groups of a business unit of an organization, human resource information from stored business information, the human resource information including, for employees of the respective groups, salary information and employee experience information; extract, for the respective groups, cost information, productivity information, quality information, and attrition data from the business information; provide, for the respective groups, at least the human resources information, the cost information, the productivity information, the quality information, and the attrition data to a model trained via machine learning, the model producing respective scores for the plurality of groups; rank the plurality of groups based at least partly on the respective scores; and output the ranking of the plurality of groups.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein: the business information includes corresponding goals for the respective groups of the plurality of groups, and the computer readable program code is further configured to: determine ones of the respective groups that are not reaching the corresponding goals; and provide information regarding the determined ones of the respective groups that are not meeting the corresponding goals and suggesting that action be taken regarding the determined ones of the respective groups.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program code is further configured to: obtain business data of one or more competitors from one or more public sources; compare the business data of the one or more competitors with business data of the organization related to at least one of one or more products and one or more services common to the competitor and the organization, and produce a report indicating one or more business metrics of the organization that are lagging behind one or more business metrics of the one or more competitors based, at least partially on the comparing of the business data of the one or more competitors with the business data of the organization.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the computer readable program code is further configured to: use artificial intelligence to provide one or more suggestions for improving performance of the organization based on the one or more business metrics of the organization included in the report.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program code is further configured to: suggest one or more managers to be rewarded, the one or more managers being associated with a respective one or more of the plurality of groups having a performance measurement that exceeds a threshold.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program code is further configured to: calculate corresponding returns on investment for respective groups of the plurality groups; and determine which of the plurality of groups has a highest return on investment and which of a plurality of regions, in which at least one of the respective groups of the plurality of groups is located, has a highest return on investment.
</claims>
</document>
