<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/258,H04N21/45,H04N21/466,H04N21/4788,H04N5/445
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATTHEWS, SEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67477544
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SEAMLESSLY CONNECTING DEVICES BASED ON RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE USERS OF THE RESPECTIVE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described for seamlessly connecting devices based on relationships between the users of the respective devices. A media guidance application may determine that a first user has entered an environment (e.g., his/her mother's home) and may determine a frequency with which the first user enters the environment (e.g., daily). In response to determining that the first user visits frequently, the media guidance application may identify a second device in the environment (e.g., a smart TV) that a second user (e.g., the first user's mother) is authorized to grant access rights for. The media guidance application may determine a likelihood that the second user will grant the access rights for the second device to the first user, based on interaction data between the first user and the second user. In response to determining a high likelihood, the media guidance application may transmit the access rights.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-51. (canceled)
52. A method for automatically granting, to a first device associated with a first user, access rights to a second device associated with a second user, the method comprising: determining that the first device has entered an environment in which the second device is located; retrieving a connection history of the second device; determining, based on the connection history, a number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device; and automatically granting, to the first device, access rights to the second device based on the determined number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein the access rights allow access to media content on the second device.
54. The method of claim 52, wherein the connection history comprises a plurality of connection timestamps, each timestamp associated with respective data identifying a device that was connected to the second device, a user associated with the identified device, and whether the identified device was granted or denied access rights to the second device.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein determining, based on the connection history, a number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device further comprises: determining a subset of timestamps whose associated data includes the first user; and counting a number of timestamps of the subset of timestamps whose associated data includes an indication that the identified device was granted access rights to the second device.
56. The method of claim 52, wherein granting, to the first device, access rights to the second device comprises transmitting access rights for the second device to the first device.
57. The method of claim 56, wherein transmitting the access rights for the second device further comprises: determining, based on profile information on the first device, that an event is occurring in the environment, wherein both the first user and the second user are participants of the event; and in response to determining that the event is occurring in the environment, transmitting the access rights for the second device to the first device.
58. The method of claim 56, wherein transmitting the access rights for the second device further comprises: automatically establishing a peer-to-peer connection between the first device and the second device; retrieving the access rights for the second device; and sending the access rights to the first device through the peer-to-peer connection.
59. The method of claim 56, wherein transmitting the access rights for the second device further comprises: prompting the second user with selectable option to block the first device; and in response to receiving a selection of the selectable option, blocking the first device from connecting to the second device.
60. The method of claim 52, further comprising: determining, based on the number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device, a likelihood that the second user will grant access rights for the second device to the first user; wherein automatically granting, to the first device, access rights to the second device is further based on the likelihood that the second user will grant access rights for the second device to the first user.
61. The method of claim 52, wherein determining that the first device has entered the environment in which the second device is located further comprises: determining, using sensor circuitry, a first location of the first device; determining, using the sensor circuitry, a second location of the second device; determining that the first location of the first user and the second location of the second user are within a threshold proximity; and in response to determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold proximity, determining that the first location corresponds to the location of the environment in which the second device is located.
62. A system for automatically granting, to a first device associated with a first user, access rights to a second device associated with a second user, the system comprising: memory; and control circuitry configured to: determine that the first device has entered an environment in which the second device is located; retrieving, form the memory, a connection history of the second device; determine, based on the connection history, a number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device; and automatically grant, to the first device, access rights to the second device based on the determined number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights.
63. The system of claim 62, wherein the access rights allow access to media content on the second device.
64. The system of claim 62, wherein the connection history comprises a plurality of connection timestamps, each timestamp associated with respective data identifying a device that was connected to the second device, a user associated with the identified device, and whether the identified device was granted or denied access rights to the second device.
65. The system of claim 64, wherein the control circuitry configured to determine, based on the connection history, a number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device is further configured to: determine a subset of timestamps whose associated data includes the first user; and count a number of timestamps of the subset of timestamps whose associated data includes an indication that the identified device was granted access rights to the second device.
66. The system of claim 62, wherein the control circuitry configured to grant, to the first device, access rights to the second device is further configured to transmit access rights for the second device to the first device.
67. The system of claim 65, wherein the control circuitry configured to transmit the access rights for the second device is further configured to: determine, based on profile information on the first device, that an event is occurring in the environment, wherein both the first user and the second user are participants of the event; and in response to determining that the event is occurring in the environment, transmit the access rights for the second device to the first device.
68. The system of claim 65, wherein the control circuitry configured to transmit the access rights for the second device is further configured to: automatically establish a peer-to-peer connection between the first device and the second device; retrieve the access rights for the second device; and send the access rights to the first device through the peer-to-peer connection.
69. The system of claim 65, wherein the control circuitry configured to transmit the access rights for the second device is further configured to: prompt the second user with selectable option to block the first device; and in response to receiving a selection of the selectable option, block the first device from connecting to the second device.
70. The system of claim 62, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine, based on the number of times that devices associated with the first user have been granted access rights to the second device, a likelihood that the second user will grant access rights for the second device to the first user; wherein the control circuitry configured to automatically grant, to the first device, access rights to the second device is further configured to do so based on the likelihood that the second user will grant access rights for the second device to the first user.
71. The system of claim 62, wherein the control circuitry configured to determine that the first device has entered the environment in which the second device is located is further configured to: determine, using sensor circuitry, a first location of the first device; determine, using the sensor circuitry, a second location of the second device; determine that the first location of the first user and the second location of the second user are within a threshold proximity; and in response to determining that the first location and the second location are within the threshold proximity, determine that the first location corresponds to the location of the environment in which the second device is located.
</claims>
</document>
