<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VALORSEC SA
</assignee>

<inventors>
Lenzarini, Davide
Boër, Claudio Roberto
Rigotti, Alberto
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71615925
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HANDLING OF DISTRIBUTED LEDGER OBJECTS AMONG TRUSTED AGENTS THROUGH COMPUTATIONAL ARGUMENTATION AND INFERENCE IN THE INTEREST OF THEIR MANAGERS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for the handling of distributed ledger objects among trusted agents through computational argumentation and inference in the interest of their managers, whereto a trusted agent, the protagonist, after a selection and identification phase, initiates a dialogue with other trusted agents, the antagonists, proposing an argument to justify the acceptance of a claim aiming to obtain the handling of distributed ledger objects in the interest of its manager. The antagonists may or may not decide to be engaged in a negotiation with the protagonist depending on their claims with their given constraints and limits. In the former case they exchange arguments and counterarguments with the other trusted agents involved and through computational argumentation and inference they may agree on the handling of distributed ledger objects by subscribing a contract and performing it in a distributed ledger. Each agent is unequivocally associated to its manager and each agent has a root of trust module allowing an unequivocal identification of it as trusted.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for the handling of distributed ledger objects among trusted agents through computational argumentation and inference in the interest of their managers, whereto a protagonist agent, unequivocally associated to at least one manager, initiates a dialogue with at least one antagonist agent, by means of at least one argument to justify the acceptance of at least one claim aiming to obtain the handling of distributed ledger objects in the interest of its at least one manager, the method comprising: initiating a claim definition phase in which the protagonist agent is configured for the handling of distributed ledger objects to obtain, with given constraints and limits, at least one claim defined in the interest of its at least one manager; executing at least one application to obtain the at least one claim defined with its given constraints and limits; initiating an antagonists selection phase in which the protagonist agent selects at least one antagonist agent relevant to obtain the at least one claim defined when appropriate considering its given constraints and limits; initiating an agents connection phase in which the protagonist agent and the at least one selected antagonist agent establish a connection; initiating an agents identification phase in which cryptographic secrets derived from each agent at least one root of trust module are exchanged among the connected agents allowing an unequivocal identification of them as trusted; initiating an argument inception phase in which the trusted protagonist agent generates at least one argument to justify the acceptance of its at least one claim and sends it to the at least one trusted antagonist agent; performing a negotiation phase in which the trusted protagonist agent, after receiving the output of an argument engagement phase performed by the at least one trusted antagonist agent, generates arguments and counterarguments by means of computational argumentation and inference, in order to negotiate, with the at least one engaged trusted antagonist agent, the handling of distributed ledger objects required to obtain at least one claim; performing a contractualization phase in which the trusted protagonist agent is configured to subscribe to at least one distributed ledger objects handling contract with at least one of the engaged trusted antagonist agents if the negotiation phase converges to the handling of acceptable distributed ledger objects; performing or detecting the outcome of a distributed ledger objects valorisation phase in which the at least one subscribed distributed ledger objects handling contract is performed in at least one distributed ledger to handle the negotiated objects.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein each antagonist agent has the same capabilities of a protagonist agent and, when it is involved in an argument inception phase as trusted antagonist, performs an argument engagement phase in which it verifies the compliance of the trusted protagonist agent's at least one argument with its at least one claim, within its given constraints and limits, in order to decide on its engagement in a negotiation with the trusted protagonist agent.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein an agent, during the claim definition phase, is configured through a connection with its at least one manager.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the connection between the agent and its at least one manager is a vocal interaction.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the agent initiates a manager authentication phase to allow an unequivocal identification of its at least one manager as trusted.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the agent's at least one manager is authenticated through biometrics parameters.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the agent's at least one manager is authenticated through computational argumentation and inference using at least one computational argumentation and inference authentication model selected from at least one manager authentication models repository enriched with the arguments and counterarguments exchanged for the manager authentication.
8. The method according to claim 2, wherein an agent initiates an application selection phase to select from at least one applications repository the at least one application to be used to obtain the at least one claim defined with its given constraints and limits.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the protagonist agent initiates an agents connection channel selection phase in order to agree with the at least one selected antagonist agent the channel to be used for the connection.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the connection among the agents is a vocal interaction.
11. The method according to claim 2, wherein the negotiation phase is performed using at least one computational argumentation and inference negotiation model selected from at least one negotiation models repository enriched with the arguments and counterarguments exchanged for the negotiation among the trusted protagonist agent and the at least one engaged antagonist agent.
12. The method according to claim 2, wherein the contractualization phase is performed using at least one contract model selected from at least one contract models repository enriched if the converged negotiation phase requires the upgrade of the at least one contract model selected.
13. A system for the handling of distributed ledger objects among trusted agents through computational argumentation and inference in the interest of their managers, whereto a protagonist agent, unequivocally associated to at least one manager, is adapted to initiate a dialogue with antagonist agents, by means of at least one argument to justify the acceptance of at least one claim aiming to obtain the handling of distributed ledger objects in the interest of its at least one manager, and it is adapted to negotiate with the antagonist agents by generating and exchanging arguments and counterarguments and to finalize the handling of objects in at least one distributed ledger if the negotiation converges to the handling of distributed ledger objects acceptable by the protagonist agent and the antagonist agents on the basis of their claims and within their given constraints and limits, the protagonist agent comprising: at least one claim definition module adapted to handle a claim definition phase in which the protagonist agent is configured for the handling of distributed ledger objects to obtain, with given constraints and limits, at least one claim defined in the interest of its at least one manager; at least one application processing module adapted to process at least one application to obtain the at least one claim defined with its given constraints and limits; at least one antagonist selection module adapted to handle an antagonists selection phase in which the protagonist agent selects at least one antagonist agent relevant to obtain the at least one claim defined when appropriate considering its given constraints and limits; at least one agent connection module adapted to handle an agents connection phase in which the protagonist agent and the at least one selected antagonist agent establish a connection; at least one root of trust module; at least one cryptography module adapted to derive cryptographic secrets from the at least one root of trust module; at least one agent authentication module adapted to handle an agents identification phase in which the cryptographic secrets derived from each agent's at least one root of trust module via the at least one cryptography module are exchanged among the connected agents allowing an unequivocal identification of them as trusted; at least one argument inception module adapted to handle an argument inception phase in which the trusted protagonist agent generates at least one argument to justify the acceptance of its at least one claim and sends it to the at least one trusted antagonist agent; at least one computational argumentation and inference negotiation module adapted to handle a negotiation phase in which the trusted protagonist agent, after receiving the output of an argument engagement module operated by the at least one trusted antagonist agent, generates arguments and counterargument by means of computational argumentation and inference, in order to negotiate, with the at least one engaged trusted antagonist agent, the handling of distributed ledger objects required to obtain at least one claim; at least one contract subscription module adapted to handle a contractualization phase in which the trusted protagonist agent cooperates with at least one of the engaged trusted antagonist agents to subscribe to at least one distributed ledger objects handling contract if the negotiation phase converges to the handling of acceptable distributed ledger objects; at least one distributed ledger objects management module adapted to handle or detect the outcome of a distributed ledger objects valorisation phase in which the at least one subscribed distributed ledger objects handling contract is performed in at least one distributed ledger to handle the negotiated objects.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein each antagonist agent comprises the same modules of a protagonist agent and at least one argument engagement module adapted to handle, when it is involved in an argument inception phase as trusted antagonist, an argument engagement phase in which it verifies the compliance of the trusted protagonist's at least one argument with its at least one claim, within its given constraints and limits, in order to decide on its engagement in a negotiation with the trusted protagonist agent.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein an agent comprises at least one manager connection module adapted to handle a connection with its at least one manager.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the at least one manager connection module comprises means to manage vocal interactions.
17. The system according to claim 15, wherein the agent comprises at least one manager authentication module adapted to handle a manager authentication phase allowing an unequivocal identification of its at least one manager as trusted.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the agent comprises at least one biometrics authentication module to authenticate its at least one manager through biometrics parameters.
19. The system according to claim 17, wherein the agent comprises at least one computational argumentation and inference authentication module adapted to authenticate its at least one manager through computational argumentation and inference using at least one computational argumentation and inference authentication model selected from at least one manager authentication models repository enriched with the arguments and counterarguments exchanged for the manager authentication.
20. The system according to claim 14, wherein an agent comprises at least one application selection module adapted to handle an application selection phase to select from at least one applications repository the at least one application to be used to obtain the at least one claim defined with its given constraints and limits.
21. The system according to claim 14, wherein an agent comprises at least one agent connection channel selection module adapted to handle an agents connection channel selection phase in which the protagonist agent agrees with the at least one selected antagonist agent the channel to be used for the connection.
22. The system according to claim 13, wherein the at least one agent connection module comprises means to manage vocal interactions.
23. The system according to claim 14, wherein the at least one computational argumentation and inference negotiation module comprises means to use at least one computational argumentation and inference negotiation model selected from at least one negotiation models repository and to enrich it with the arguments and counterarguments exchanged for the negotiation among the trusted protagonist agent and the at least one engaged antagonist agent.
24. The system according to claim 14, wherein the at least one contract subscription module comprises means to use at least one contract model selected from at least one contract models repository and to enrich it if the converged negotiation phase requires its upgrade.
25. The system according to claim 14, wherein an agent comprises at least one repository handler module adapted to provide access to and to manage at least one manager authentication models repository or at least one applications repository or at least one negotiation models repository or at least one contract models repository used by the agent.
26. The system according to claim 14, wherein at least one of the agents involved is not a human and its at least one distributed ledger objects management module handles the distributed ledger objects valorisation phase if the trusted protagonist agent and at least one of the engaged trusted antagonist agents subscribe at least one distributed ledger objects handling contract.
</claims>
</document>
