<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0488,G06T11/00,G06T11/60,G08G1/123
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WACHSMAN, ELEANOR CADY
O'BEIRNE, JUSTIN
REINER, AARON A.
KELSO, NATHANIEL V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57450941
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Feature Selection in Transit Mode
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments provide a mapping application that displays a transit map including a group of lines that each corresponds to at least one transit route and, for each line, a set of transit-related features located along the line. The mapping application receives a selection of a transit line and, in response to the selection, modifies the transit map to emphasize the selected transit line and the set of features located along the selected transit line.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: presenting, by a mapping application, a map presentation for a first location in a first orientation; detecting, by the mapping application, a request to reorient the map presentation to a second orientation; determining, by the mapping application, that the request causes the map presentation to approach a locality-specific map orientation that is particularly associated with the first location; and in response to the determination, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation at a first zoom level; detecting a zoom input causing the map presentation to zoom to a second zoom level past a threshold zoom level, the second zoom level being higher than the first zoom level; and in response to the detection, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: defining an angular threshold with respect to the locality-specific map orientation; detecting that that the rotation input enters within the angular threshold of the locality-specific map orientation; and automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a first user input to present the map presentation of the first location; and in response to receiving the user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second user input to initiate a transit map mode in which to present the map presentation; and in response to receiving the second user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation; receiving a request for routing directions from a starting location to a destination location, wherein one or more of the starting location and the destination location are within the first location; in response to the request, automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation; and presenting the requested routing directions on the map presentation in the locality-specific map orientation.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving the request for routing directions; presenting the requested routing directions on the map presentation, wherein the map presentation is in a north-up orientation; detecting the rotation input; determining that the rotation input causes the map presentation to approach the locality-specific map orientation; and automatically orienting the map presentation of the routing directions into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
8. A non-transitory machine-readable medium storing a mapping application for execution by at least one processing unit of a device, the mapping application comprising sets of instructions for: presenting, by a mapping application, a map presentation for a first location in a first orientation; detecting, by the mapping application, a request to reorient the map presentation to a second orientation; determining, by the mapping application, that the request causes the map presentation to approach a locality-specific map orientation that is particularly associated with the first location; and in response to the determination, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation at a first zoom level; detecting a zoom input causing the map presentation to zoom to a second zoom level past a threshold zoom level, the second zoom level being higher than the first zoom level; and in response to the detection, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: defining an angular threshold with respect to the locality-specific map orientation; detecting that that the rotation input enters within the angular threshold of the locality-specific map orientation; and automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: receiving a first user input to present the map presentation of the first location; and in response to receiving the user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: receiving a second user input to initiate a transit map mode in which to present the map presentation; and in response to receiving the second user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation; receiving a request for routing directions from a starting location to a destination location, wherein one or more of the starting location and the destination location are within the first location; in response to the request, automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation; and presenting the requested routing directions on the map presentation in the locality-specific map orientation.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the mapping application further comprises sets of instructions for: receiving the request for routing directions; presenting the requested routing directions on the map presentation, wherein the map presentation is in a north-up orientation; detecting the rotation input; determining that the rotation input causes the map presentation to approach the locality-specific map orientation; and automatically orienting the map presentation of the routing directions into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
15. A mobile device comprising: a set of processing units for executing instructions; a non-transitory machine readable medium storing a program for execution by at least one processing unit, the program comprising sets of instructions for: presenting, by a mapping application, a map presentation for a first location in a first orientation; detecting, by the mapping application, a request to reorient the map presentation to a second orientation; determining, by the mapping application, that the request causes the map presentation to approach a locality-specific map orientation that is particularly associated with the first location; and in response to the determination, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
16. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions for: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation at a first zoom level; detecting a zoom input causing the map presentation to zoom to a second zoom level past a threshold zoom level, the second zoom level being higher than the first zoom level; and in response to the detection, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation.
17. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions for: defining an angular threshold with respect to the locality-specific map orientation; detecting that that the rotation input enters within the angular threshold of the locality-specific map orientation; and automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
18. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions for: receiving a first user input to present the map presentation of the first location; and in response to receiving the user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
19. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions for: receiving a second user input to initiate a transit map mode in which to present the map presentation; and in response to receiving the second user input, automatically orienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation without further input.
20. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the program further comprises sets of instructions for: presenting the map presentation in a north-up orientation; receiving a request for routing directions from a starting location to a destination location, wherein one or more of the starting location and the destination location are within the first location; in response to the request, automatically reorienting the map presentation into the locality-specific map orientation; and presenting the requested routing directions on the map presentation in the locality-specific map orientation.
</claims>
</document>
