<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06F16/903,G06F16/9035,G06F16/9038,G06K9/00,G06T11/20,G06T7/13,G06T7/62,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAKHIJA, GAURAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850276
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POLYGON IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
One or more computing devices, systems, and/or methods for identifying polygons that are accurate representations of geographical boundaries of properties are presented. For example, a polygon may be selected from a database of polygons. The polygon may comprise a representation of geographical boundaries of a property associated with an entity. The polygon may be associated with a location and/or a size. A location database may be analyzed to identify a second location associated with the property. An offset distance may be determined based upon the location and the second location. The database of polygons may be analyzed to determine an expected size of the property based upon a plurality of polygons associated with the entity. A size difference between the expected size of the property and the size may be determined. A quality score associated with the polygon may be generated based upon the offset distance and the size difference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: selecting a first polygon from a database of polygons, wherein: the first polygon comprises a representation of geographical boundaries of a first property associated with a first entity; and the first polygon is associated with a first location and a first size; analyzing a location database to identify a second location associated with the first property, wherein the location database comprises a plurality of locations associated with a plurality of properties; determining a first offset distance based upon the first location associated with the first polygon and the second location associated with the first property; analyzing the database of polygons to determine an expected size of the first property based upon a plurality of polygons, of the database of polygons, associated with the first entity; determining a size difference based upon the expected size of the first property and the first size associated with the first polygon; and generating a quality score associated with the first polygon based upon the first offset distance and the size difference.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining one or more entities, different than the first entity, that are associated with the first property, wherein the generating the quality score is performed based upon a quantity of entities of the one or more entities.
3. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining one or more entities, different than the first entity, that are associated with the first property; and one of: determining, based upon the expected size of the first property, that the first entity is a parent entity of the first property and that the one or more entities are child entities of the first property, wherein: the generating the quality score is performed based upon the determining that the first entity is the parent entity of the first property; and the quality score is a first score; or determining, based upon the expected size of the first property, that the first entity is a child entity of the first property, wherein: the generating the quality score is performed based upon the determining that the first entity is the child entity of the first property; the quality score is a second score; and the first score is greater than the second score.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the determining that the first entity is the parent entity of the first property comprises determining that the size difference is less than a threshold size difference; and the determining that the first entity is the child entity of the first property comprises determining that the size difference is greater than a threshold size difference.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first polygon is associated with a first shape, the method comprising: analyzing the plurality of polygons associated with the first entity to determine an expected shape of the first property; and determining a shape difference between the expected shape and the first shape of the first polygon, wherein the generating the quality score is performed based upon the shape difference.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising: responsive to determining that the quality score is less than a threshold quality score, discarding the first polygon.
7. The method of claim 1, comprising: responsive to determining that the quality score is less than a threshold quality score, displaying, via a graphical user interface of a client device, a message indicative of the quality score being less than the threshold quality score.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising: responsive to determining that the quality score is less than a threshold quality score, controlling a graphical user interface of a client device to display a polygon generation interface comprising one or more selectable inputs associated with generating a second polygon of the first property; receiving one or more inputs via the polygon generation interface corresponding to the second polygon; and generating the second polygon based upon the one or more inputs.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising: responsive to determining that the quality score is less than a threshold quality score, modifying the first polygon to generate a modified polygon based upon at least one of satellite images associated with the second location, the second location or the expected size.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising: responsive to determining that the quality score is greater than a threshold quality score, adding the first polygon to a database of accurate polygons.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising: receiving a message from a client device, wherein the message is indicative of a client location of the client device; analyzing the database of accurate polygons to determine that the client location is at least one of within the first polygon or within a threshold distance from the first polygon; and responsive to determining that the client location is at least one of within the first polygon or within the threshold distance from the first polygon, transmitting a content item to the client device, wherein the content item is associated with the first entity.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein: the expected size comprises an expected area of the first property; the expected area of the first property comprises at least one of a mean of a plurality of areas of the plurality of polygons associated with the first entity or a median of the plurality of areas; and the determining the size difference comprises: determining a second area associated with the first polygon, wherein the first size comprises the second area; and combining the expected area with the second area to determine the size difference.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein: the expected size comprises an expected radius of the first property; the expected radius of the first property comprises at least one of a mean of a plurality of radiuses of the plurality of polygons associated with the first entity or a median of the plurality of radiuses; and the determining the size difference comprises: determining a second radius associated with the first polygon, wherein the first size comprises the second radius; and combining the expected radius with the second radius to determine the size difference.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the first offset distance comprises: determining a center point associated with the first polygon, wherein the first location comprises the center point; and comparing the center point with the second location to determine the first offset distance.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein: the first location comprises a first set of coordinates associated with the center point; and the second location comprises a second set of coordinates associated with the first property.
16. The method of claim 1, comprising: applying a weight to the first offset distance based upon the expected size of the first property to generate a weighted offset distance, wherein the generating the quality score is performed based upon the weighted offset distance.
17. A computing device comprising: a processor; and memory comprising processor-executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause performance of operations, the operations comprising: selecting a first polygon from a database of polygons, wherein: the first polygon comprises a representation of geographical boundaries of a first property associated with a first entity; and the first polygon is associated with a first location and a first size; analyzing a location database to identify a second location associated with the first property, wherein the location database comprises a plurality of locations associated with a plurality of properties; determining a first offset distance based upon the first location associated with the first polygon and the second location associated with the first property; analyzing the database of polygons to determine an expected size of the first property based upon a plurality of polygons, of the database of polygons, associated with the first entity; determining a size difference based upon the expected size of the first property and the first size associated with the first polygon; and generating a quality score associated with the first polygon based upon the first offset distance and the size difference.
18. The computing device of claim 17, the operations comprising: determining one or more entities, different than the first entity, that are associated with the first property, wherein the generating the quality score is performed based upon a quantity of entities of the one or more entities.
19. A non-transitory machine readable medium having stored thereon processor-executable instructions that when executed cause performance of operations, the operations comprising: selecting a first polygon from a database of polygons, wherein: the first polygon comprises a representation of geographical boundaries of a first property associated with a first entity; and the first polygon is associated with a first location and a first size; analyzing a location database to identify a second location associated with the first property, wherein the location database comprises a plurality of locations associated with a plurality of properties; determining a first offset distance based upon the first location associated with the first polygon and the second location associated with the first property; analyzing the database of polygons to determine an expected size of the first property based upon a plurality of polygons, of the database of polygons, associated with the first entity; determining a size difference based upon the expected size of the first property and the first size associated with the first polygon; and generating a quality score associated with the first polygon based upon the first offset distance and the size difference.
20. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 19, the operations comprising: determining one or more entities, different than the first entity, that are associated with the first property, wherein the generating the quality score is performed based upon a quantity of entities of the one or more entities.
</claims>
</document>
