<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAZE, OREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044739
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME MATCHING AND SMART RECOMMENDATIONS FOR TASKS AND EXPERTS
</title>

<abstract>
User information for a particular user is accessed. Expert information for experts and training that is available in an organization of the particular user is accessed. One or more pattern matches between the user information and the expert information are determined. One or more expert recommendations are generated based on the one or more pattern matches and provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing expert information for experts and training that is available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the expert information; generating one or more expert recommendations based on the one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more expert recommendations.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user information includes context information, organizational data for the particular user, demographic data, expert or training usage information, a user role for the particular user, project participation data, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the particular user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the particular user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the expert information includes one or more of an expert category, expert description, expert prerequisite information, expert functionality, expert availability, expert cost, expert preferences, an expert profile, and an expert location.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one pattern match is a match between the user information and a predefined pattern relating to expert data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one pattern match is a match between the expert information and a predefined pattern relating to the user information.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more expert recommendations are generated in response to a trigger.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the trigger comprises one of a change in the user information, a change in the expert information, a change in training information, or a start of a periodic interval at which to automatically process the user information, the expert information, and the training information.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the one or more pattern matches.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving feedback related to one or more provided expert recommendations; and adjusting a pattern recognition engine to improve generation of future expert recommendations.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more pattern matches comprises determining an expert to which the particular user has access.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more pattern matches comprises determining an expert that matches historical expert usage for the particular user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more pattern matches comprises determining an expert that matches a requirement of the particular user.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more pattern matches comprises determining an expert that matches some of the user information but lacks knowledge or training to perform a specific task for the particular user; and including a suggestion in a provided expert recommendation that the expert obtain the knowledge or the training.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: assessing a payment for the one or more expert recommendations if a particular expert recommendation of the one or more expert recommendations is followed by the organization.
15. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing expert information for experts and training that is available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the expert information; generating one or more expert recommendations based on the one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more expert recommendations.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the user information includes context information, organizational data for the particular user, demographic data, expert or training usage information, a user role for the particular user, project participation data, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the particular user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the particular user.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the expert information includes one or more of an expert category, expert description, expert prerequisite information, expert functionality, expert availability, expert cost, expert preferences, an expert profile, and an expert location.
18. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: accessing user information for a particular user; accessing expert information for experts and training that is available in an organization of the particular user; determining one or more pattern matches between the user information and the expert information; generating one or more expert recommendations based on the one or more pattern matches; and providing the one or more expert recommendations.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 18, wherein the user information includes context information, organizational data for the particular user, demographic data, expert or training usage information, a user role for the particular user, project participation data, user profile information, user activity data, user preferences, a current location of the particular user, or a current time at which a recommendation can be presented to the particular user.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the expert information includes one or more of an expert category, expert description, expert prerequisite information, expert functionality, expert availability, expert cost, expert preferences, an expert profile, and an expert location.
</claims>
</document>
