<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/36,G06F3/16,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEO, KYUHO
KWAK, BYEONGHOON
PARK, DAEDONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72043154
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROLLING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus and a controlling method thereof are provided. The electronic apparatus includes a camera, a sensor, an output interface including circuitry, and a processor configured to, based on information regarding objects existing on a route to a destination of the vehicle, output guidance information regarding the route through the output interface. The information regarding objects is obtained from a plurality of trained models corresponding to a plurality of sections included in the route based on location information of the vehicle obtained through the sensor and an image obtained by imaging a portion ahead of the vehicle obtained through the camera.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus included in a vehicle, the electronic apparatus comprising: a camera; a sensor; an output interface comprising circuitry; and a processor configured to, based on information regarding objects existing on a route to a destination of the vehicle, output guidance information regarding the route through the output interface, wherein the information regarding objects is obtained from a plurality of trained models corresponding to a plurality of sections included in the route based on location information of the vehicle obtained through the sensor and an image obtained by imaging a portion ahead of the vehicle obtained through the camera.
2. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the objects comprise buildings existing on the route, and wherein the processor is further configured to output the guidance information regarding at least one of a travelling direction or a travelling distance of the vehicle based on the buildings.
3. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of trained models is a model trained to determine an object having highest possibility to be discriminated at a particular location among a plurality of objects included in the image, based on the image captured at the particular location.
4. The electronic apparatus according to claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of trained models is a model trained based on an image captured in each of the plurality of sections of the route divided with respect to intersections.
5. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of sections are divided with respect to intersections existing on the route.
6. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a communication interface comprising circuitry, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the communication interface to transmit, to a server, information regarding the route, the location information of the vehicle obtained through the sensor, and the image obtained by imaging a portion ahead of the vehicle obtained through the camera, and based on the guidance information being received from the server via the communication interface, output the guidance information through the output interface, and wherein the server is configured to: identify a plurality of trained models corresponding to the plurality of sections included in the route among trained models stored in advance, obtain the information regarding objects by using the image as input data of a trained model corresponding to the location information of the vehicle among the plurality of trained models, and obtain the guidance information based on the information regarding objects.
7. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a communication interface comprising circuitry, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the communication interface to transmit information regarding the route to a server, and based on a plurality of trained models corresponding to the plurality of sections included in the route being received from the server via the communication interface, obtain the information regarding objects by using the image as input data of a trained model corresponding to the location information of the vehicle among the plurality of trained models.
8. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the output interface includes at least one of a speaker or a display, and wherein the processor is further configured to output the guidance information through at least one of the speaker or the display.
9. A controlling method of an electronic apparatus included in a vehicle, the controlling method comprising: obtaining information regarding objects existing on a route from a plurality of trained models corresponding to a plurality of sections included in the route to a destination of the vehicle based on location information of the vehicle and an image obtained by imaging a portion ahead of the vehicle; and outputting guidance information regarding the route based on the information regarding the objects existing on the route to the destination of the vehicle.
10. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein the objects include buildings existing on the route, and wherein the outputting comprises outputting the guidance information regarding at least one of a travelling direction or a travelling distance of the vehicle based on the buildings.
11. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of trained models is a model trained to identify an object having highest possibility to be discriminated at a particular location among a plurality of objects included in the image, based on the image captured at the particular location.
12. The controlling method according to claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of trained models is a model trained based on an image captured in each of the plurality of sections of the route divided with respect to intersections.
13. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of sections are divided with respect to intersections existing on the route.
14. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein the outputting further comprises: transmitting information regarding the route, the location information of the vehicle, and the image obtained by imaging a portion ahead of the vehicle to a server, and receiving the guidance information from the server and outputting the guidance information, wherein the server is configured to: identify a plurality of trained models corresponding to the plurality of sections included in the route among trained models stored in advance, obtains the information regarding objects by using the image as input data of a trained model corresponding to the location information of the vehicle among the plurality of trained models, and obtains the guidance information based on the information regarding objects.
15. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein the outputting comprises transmitting information regarding the route to a server, receiving a plurality of trained models corresponding to the plurality of sections included in the route from the server, and obtains the information regarding objects by using the image as input data of a trained model corresponding to the location information of the vehicle among the plurality of trained models.
16. The controlling method according to claim 9, wherein the outputting comprises outputting the guidance information through at least one of a speaker or a display.
</claims>
</document>
