<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/033,G10L13/04,G10L13/047,G10L13/08,G10L15/02,G10L15/18,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JEONG, JONGHOON
CHOO, KIHYUN
OH, EUNMI
HWANG, SEONHO
MIN, KYOUNGBO
HONG, DOOHWA
SUNG, HOSANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609021
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND CONTROLLING METHOD OF ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device and a controlling method of the electronic device are provided. The electronic device acquires text to respond on a received user's speech, acquires a plurality of pieces of parameter information for determining a style of an output speech corresponding to the text based on information on a type of a plurality of text-to-speech (TTS) databases and the received user's speech, identifies a TTS database corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among the plurality of TTS databases, identifies a weight set corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among a plurality of weight sets acquired through a trained artificial intelligence model, adjusts information on the output speech stored in the TTS database based on the weight set, synthesizes the output speech based on the adjusted information on the output speech, and outputs the output speech corresponding to the text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a memory; and a processor connected to the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire text to respond to a user's speech received by the electronic device, acquire a plurality of pieces of parameter information for determining a style of an output speech corresponding to the text based on information on a type of a plurality of text-to-speech (TTS) databases and the user's speech, identify a TTS database corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among the plurality of TTS databases, identify a weight set corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among a plurality of weight sets acquired through a trained artificial intelligence model, adjust information on the output speech stored in the TTS database based on the weight set, synthesize the output speech based on the adjusted information on the output speech, and output the output speech corresponding to the text.
2. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire text corresponding to the user's speech by recognizing the user's speech, acquire the text to respond to the user's speech based on natural language processing for the text corresponding to the user's speech, and acquire at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on the text corresponding to the user's speech and the text for responding to the user's speech.
3. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire information on an acoustic feature of the user's speech based on the user's speech, and acquire at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on the acquired information on the acoustic feature.
4. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of parameter information comprises at least one of context information of a user corresponding to the user's speech or context information of the electronic device, and wherein the processor is further configured to acquire at least one of the context information of the user and the context information of the electronic device based on sensing information acquired from a sensing device.
5. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a user interface, wherein the processor is further configured to change at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on a user instruction input through the user interface.
6. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of parameter information comprises at least one of information on a language of the output speech, information on a speaker of the output speech, information on a type of an application that provides information on the output speech, information on a tone of the output speech, information on a user's preference regarding the output speech, context information of a user corresponding to the user's speech, or context information of the electronic device.
7. The electronic device as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of weight sets comprises a plurality of weights for adjusting information on output speeches stored in the plurality of TTS databases, respectively, and wherein the plurality of weight sets is acquired by inputting a learning speech corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information to the trained artificial intelligence model.
8. A method of controlling an electronic device, the method comprising: acquiring text to respond to a user's speech received by the electronic device; acquiring a plurality of pieces of parameter information for determining a style of an output speech corresponding to the text based on information on a type of a plurality of text-to-speech (TTS) databases and the user's speech; identifying a TTS database corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among the plurality of TTS databases; identifying a weight set corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among a plurality of weight sets acquired through a trained artificial intelligence model; adjusting information on the output speech stored in the TTS database based on the weight set; synthesizing the output speech based on the adjusted information on the output speech; and outputting the output speech corresponding to the text.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the acquiring of the text comprises: acquiring text corresponding to the user's speech by recognizing the user's speech; and acquiring the text to respond on the user's speech based on natural language processing for the text corresponding to the user's speech, and wherein the acquiring of the plurality of pieces of parameter information includes acquiring at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on the text corresponding to the user's speech and the text for responding to the user's speech.
10. The method as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: acquiring information on an acoustic feature of the user's speech based on the user's speech; and acquiring at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on the acquired information on the acoustic feature.
11. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the plurality of pieces of parameter information includes at least one of context information of a user corresponding to the user's speech or context information of the electronic device, and wherein the acquiring of the plurality of pieces of parameter information includes acquiring at least one of the context information of the user or the context information of the electronic device based on sensing information acquired from a sensing device.
12. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the acquiring of the plurality of pieces of parameter information includes changing at least one of the plurality of pieces of parameter information based on an input user instruction.
13. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the plurality of pieces of parameter information includes at least one of information on a language of the output speech, information on a speaker of the output speech, information on a type of an application that provides information on the output speech, information on a tone of the output speech, information on a user's preference regarding the output speech, context information of a user corresponding to the user's speech, or context information of the electronic device.
14. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the plurality of weight sets includes a plurality of weights for adjusting information on output speeches stored in the plurality of TTS databases, respectively, and wherein the plurality of weight sets are acquired by inputting a learning speech corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information to the trained artificial intelligence model.
15. A computer-readable recording medium including a program that, when executed by at least one processor, performs a method of controlling an electronic device, the method comprising: acquiring text to respond to a user's speech received by the electronic device; acquiring a plurality of pieces of parameter information for determining a style of an output speech corresponding to the text based on information on a type of a plurality of text-to-speech (TTS) databases and the user's speech; identifying a TTS database corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among the plurality of TTS databases; identifying a weight set corresponding to the plurality of pieces of parameter information among a plurality of weight sets acquired through a trained artificial intelligence model; adjusting information on the output speech stored in the TTS database based on the weight set; synthesizing the output speech based on the adjusted information on the output speech; and outputting the output speech corresponding to the text.
</claims>
</document>
