<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/455,H04L12/24,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMITH NED M.
GUIM BERNAT, FRANCESC
DOSHI, KSHITIJ ARUN
</assignee>

<inventors>
SMITH NED M.
GUIM BERNAT, FRANCESC
DOSHI, KSHITIJ ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102780
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ORCHESTRATOR EXECUTION PLANNING USING A DISTRIBUTED LEDGER
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and use cases for orchestrator execution planning using a distributed ledger are discussed, including an orchestration system with memory and at least one processing circuitry coupled to the memory. The processing circuitry is configured to perform operations to generate an execution plan for a workload based on an SLA. The execution plan includes state transitions associated with corresponding edge service instances. A distributed ledger record is retrieved from the ledger based on a reinforcement learning reward value specified by the record. The reward value is associated with a state transition of the plurality of state transitions. An edge node is selected based on the retrieved distributed ledger record. Execution of an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances by the edge node is scheduled. The execution of the edge service instance corresponds to the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An orchestration system comprising: memory storing a distributed ledger; and at least one processing circuitry coupled to the memory, the at least one processing circuitry configured to perform operations to: generate an execution plan for a workload based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA), the execution plan comprising a plurality of state transitions associated with a corresponding plurality of edge service instances of the workload; retrieve at least one distributed ledger record from the distributed ledger based on a reinforcement learning reward value specified by the at least one distributed ledger record, the reinforcement learning reward value associated with a state transition of the plurality of state transitions; select an edge node of a plurality of edge nodes based on the retrieved at least one distributed ledger record; and schedule execution of an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances by the edge node, the execution of the edge service instance corresponding to the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value.
2. The orchestration system of claim 1, wherein a state transition of the plurality of state transitions is associated with an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances, and wherein the state transition indicates an initial processing state and a final processing state of data processed during execution of the edge service instance.
3. The orchestration system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: select a subset of distributed ledger records from a plurality of available distributed ledger records stored in the distributed ledger, each distributed ledger record in the subset including an indicator of the state transition.
4. The orchestration system of claim 3, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: select the at least one distributed ledger record from the subset of distributed ledger records based on a maximum reinforcement learning reward value of reinforcement learning reward values indicated by the subset of distributed ledger records.
5. The orchestration system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: parse a confirmation from the edge node, the confirmation indicating an execution of the edge service instance, and a completion of the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value at a completion time t.
6. The orchestration system of claim 5, wherein the confirmation further includes telemetry data observed at network resources of the edge node at the completion time t.
7. The orchestration system of claim 6, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: calculate an updated reinforcement learning reward value based on a deviation of the telemetry data observed at the network resources of the edge node at the completion time t and key performance indicators (KPIs) specified by the SLA and associated with the state transition.
8. The orchestration system of claim 7, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: generate a new distributed ledger record, the new distributed ledger record including an identification of the edge node, the updated reinforcement learning reward value, the initial processing state and the final processing state of the state transition, the edge service instance corresponding to an action causing the state transition, and the telemetry data observed at the network resources of the edge node at the completion time t; and store the generated new distributed ledger record in the distributed ledger.
9. The orchestration system of claim 2, wherein the distributed ledger is a parent distributed ledger in a hierarchy of distributed ledgers, and wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: retrieve the at least one distributed ledger record from a plurality of available distributed ledger records stored in a child distributed ledger of a plurality of child distributed ledgers in the hierarchy of distributed ledgers.
10. The orchestration system of claim 9, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: receive a plurality of committed blocks from the plurality of child distributed ledgers in the hierarchy of distributed ledgers, each of the plurality of child distributed ledgers associated with a point of access (POA) cluster of a plurality of available POA clusters of edge nodes, wherein each POA cluster of the plurality of POA clusters is associated with a preconfigured communication latency.
11. The orchestration system of claim 10, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is further configured to perform operations to: store the plurality of committed blocks as a plurality of available distributed ledger records in the parent distributed ledger.
12. The orchestration system of claim 1, wherein the workload is one of: an audio stream encoding workload; an audio stream decoding workload; a video stream encoding workload; and a video stream decoding workload.
13. The orchestration system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processing circuitry is within one of an Edge-as-a-Service (EaaS) edge orchestrator node or EaaS meta-orchestrator node.
14. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, wherein the instructions, when executed by processing circuitry of an orchestration system, cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: generate an execution plan for a workload based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA), the execution plan comprising a plurality of state transitions associated with a corresponding plurality of edge service instances of the workload; retrieve at least one distributed ledger record from a distributed ledger based on a reinforcement learning reward value specified by the at least one distributed ledger record, the reinforcement learning reward value associated with a state transition of the plurality of state transitions; select an edge node of a plurality of edge nodes based on the retrieved at least one distributed ledger record; and schedule execution of an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances by the edge node, the execution of the edge service instance corresponding to the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value.
15. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein a state transition of the plurality of state transitions is associated with an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances, and wherein the state transition indicates an initial processing state and a final processing state of data processed during execution of the edge service instance.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: select a subset of distributed ledger records from a plurality of available distributed ledger records stored in the distributed ledger, each distributed ledger record in the subset including an indicator of the state transition.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: select the at least one distributed ledger record from the subset of distributed ledger records based on a maximum reinforcement learning reward value of reinforcement learning reward values indicated by the subset of distributed ledger records.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: parse a confirmation from the edge node, the confirmation indicating an execution of the edge service instance, and a completion of the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value at a completion time t.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the confirmation further includes telemetry data observed at network resources of the edge node at the completion time t.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: calculate an updated reinforcement learning reward value based on a deviation of the telemetry data observed at the network resources of the edge node at the completion time t and key performance indicators (KPIs) specified by the SLA and associated with the state transition.
21. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the instructions further cause the processing circuitry to perform operations that: generate a new distributed ledger record, the new distributed ledger record including an identification of the edge node, an initial state and an end state of the state transition, the edge service instance corresponding to an action causing the state transition, and the telemetry data observed at the network resources of the edge node at the completion time t; and store the generated new distributed ledger record in the distributed ledger.
22. A method performed by a network management device operable in an edge computing system, the method comprising: generating an execution plan for a workload based on a Service Level Agreement (SLA), the execution plan comprising a plurality of state transitions associated with a corresponding plurality of edge service instances of the workload; retrieving at least one distributed ledger record from a distributed ledger based on a reinforcement learning reward value specified by the at least one distributed ledger record, the reinforcement learning reward value associated with a state transition of the plurality of state transitions; selecting an edge node of a plurality of edge nodes based on the retrieved at least one distributed ledger record; and scheduling execution of an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances by the edge node, the execution of the edge service instance corresponding to the state transition associated with the reinforcement learning reward value.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein a state transition of the plurality of state transitions is associated with an edge service instance of the plurality of edge service instances, and wherein the state transition indicates an initial processing state and a final processing state of data processed during execution of the edge service instance.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: selecting a subset of distributed ledger records from a plurality of available distributed ledger records stored in the distributed ledger, each distributed ledger record in the subset including an indicator of the state transition.
25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: selecting the at least one distributed ledger record from the subset of distributed ledger records based on a maximum reinforcement learning reward value of reinforcement learning reward values indicated by the subset of distributed ledger records.
</claims>
</document>
