<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/07,G06Q20/32,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HERBERT, LINDSAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61007007
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PAYMENT DEVICE AND PROCESS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for receiving and executing a request from an electronic communications device in a point-of-sale location, the device configured to receive, from a device reader, magnetic signature data from a magnetic field produced by the device reader and wirelessly receiving a reader unique identifier from the device reader. The device configured to communicate the magnetic signature data and unique identifier to a backend service as reader identifying data together with customer credentials. The backend service configured to match customer credentials with a customer database, and match reader identifying data to a reader database to verify the reader identify; the backend service configured to use verified reader identity to identify order data received from a terminal and to pass order data to a payment provider for executing payment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic communications device comprising: a memory configured to store a device payment application; a magnetic field sensor configured to interact with a magnetic field produced by an electromagnetic component of a device reader when the electronic communications device is within a range of the magnetic field; a first wireless transceiver configured for wireless communication with the device reader; a second wireless transceiver configured for wireless communication with a payment system; and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, the magnetic field sensor, the first wireless transceiver, and the second wireless transceiver, wherein the processor is configured to execute the device payment application to: receive data on magnetic field interaction from the magnetic field sensor; receive, via the first wireless transceiver, a unique identifier from the device reader in response to the device reader detecting the electronic communications device; communicate, via the second wireless transceiver, customer identifying credentials to the payment system; and communicate, via the second wireless transceiver, the received data on magnetic field interaction from the magnetic field sensor and the received unique identifier from the device reader as reader identifying data to the payment system, wherein the payment system is configured to use the reader identifying data to verify the device reader identity, to identify order data received from a terminal using the verified device reader identity, and to pass the identified order data to a payment provider.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to receive the identified order data from the payment system and to send the identified order data to the payment provider.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to communicate confirmation data of payment received from the payment provider to the payment system.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to receive payment confirmation from the payment system.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the data on the magnetic field interaction received from the magnetic field sensor comprises measurements of the magnetic field for three physical axes.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the range of the magnetic field is limited to 5 cm.
7. A method comprising: communicating user credentials from an electronic communications device to a cloud platform for validation of the user credentials by the cloud platform; measuring, via a magnetic field sensor in the electronic communications device, data on a magnetic field produced by an electromagnetic component of a device reader when the electronic communications device is within a range of the magnetic field; receiving, via a wireless transceiver of the electronic communications device, a unique identifier from the device reader in response to the device reader detecting that the electronic communications device is within the range of the magnetic field; communicating, from the electronic communications device, the measured data on the magnetic field and the received unique identifier to the cloud platform for verification of the device reader; receiving, at the electronic communications device, payment completion confirmation from the cloud platform in response to the cloud platform validating the user credentials and verifying the device reader; and displaying, on a display of the electronic communications device, the payment completion confirmation.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving, at the electronic communications device, identified order data from the cloud platform; and communicating the identified order data from the electronic communications device to a payment provider.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving, at the electronic communications device, payment confirmation data from a payment provider; and communicating the payment confirmation data from the electronic communications device to the cloud platform.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein measuring data on the magnetic field comprises making measurements of the magnetic field for three physical axes.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the range of the magnetic field is limited to 5 cm.
12. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed by a processor of an electronic communications device, causes the processor to: communicate user credentials to a cloud platform for validation of the user credentials by the cloud platform; receive, from a magnetic field sensor in the electronic communications device, data on a magnetic field produced by an electromagnetic component of a device reader when the electronic communications device is within a range of the magnetic field; receive a unique identifier from the device reader in response to the device reader detecting that the electronic communications device is within the range of the magnetic field; communicate the data on the magnetic field and the received unique identifier to the cloud platform for verification of the device reader; receive payment completion confirmation from the cloud platform in response to the cloud platform validating the user credentials and verifying the device reader; and output the payment completion confirmation for display on a display of the electronic communications device.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the computer readable program is further configured to cause the processor to: receive identified order data from the cloud platform; and communicate the received identified order data to a payment provider.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the computer readable program is further configured to cause the processor to: receive payment confirmation data from a payment provider; and communicate the received payment confirmation data to the cloud platform.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the data on the magnetic field comprises measurements of the magnetic field for three physical axes.
16. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the range of the magnetic field is limited to 5 cm.
17. A method comprising: receiving user credentials from an electronic communications device; verifying the received user credentials against data in a customer database; receiving, from the electronic communications device, device reader identifying data, the device reader identifying data comprising magnetic field data regarding a magnetic field produced by a device reader and a unique identifier for the device reader; verifying the device reader identifying data against data in a device reader database; identifying order data based on the verified device reader identifying data; and communicating, via the electronic communications device, the order data to a payment provider.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving, via the electronic communications device, payment confirmation data from the payment provider; and communicating receipt data to the electronic communications device for display on a display of the electronic communications device.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the magnetic field data comprises measurements of the magnetic field for three physical axes, the measurements made by a magnetic field sensor in the electronic communications device.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the device reader database comprises crowdsourced data compiled from magnetic field data received from a plurality of customer devices.
21. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: receive user credentials from an electronic communications device; verify the received user credentials against data in a customer database; receive, from the electronic communications device, device reader identifying data, the device reader identifying data comprising magnetic field data regarding a magnetic field produced by a device reader and a unique identifier for the device reader; verify the device reader identifying data against data in a device reader database; identify order data based on the verified device reader identifying data; and communicate, via the electronic communications device, the order data to a payment provider.
22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the computer readable program is further configured to cause the processor to: receive, via the electronic communications device, payment confirmation data from the payment provider; and communicate receipt data to the electronic communications device for display on a display of the electronic communications device.
23. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the magnetic field data comprises measurements of the magnetic field for three physical axes, the measurements made by a magnetic field sensor in the electronic communications device.
24. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the device reader database comprises crowdsourced data compiled from magnetic field data received from a plurality of customer devices.
</claims>
</document>
