<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIBSON, TIMOTHY W.
MADIGAN, REGINA
HAYES, HOWARD
CHINTAKINDI, SUNIL
LIKHTERMAN, ALEKSANDR
JOHNSON, CALEB
NAINALA, SRINIVAS
ROSANWO, SOTON AYODELE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data Processing System with Machine Learning Engine to Provide Output Generation Functions
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer-readable media, systems, and/or apparatuses are provided for providing offer and insight generation functions. User input requesting an offer or insight may be received and an image of a photographic identification of a user may be requested. The image of the photographic identification may be captured and stored. A self-captured image of the user may be captured (e.g., via an image capture device of the computing device) and compared to an image of a user from the photographic identification. Responsive to determining that the images match, displaying an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number. The vehicle identification number may be captured. Data, including location data, may be extracted and an archive including the extracted data may be generated and the data may be transmitted to an entity computing system for processing. The entity computing system may evaluate the data and generate one or more insights and/or outputs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a first computing device including: a first processing unit comprising a first processor; and a first memory unit storing computer-executable instructions; and a second computing device including: a second processing unit comprising a second processor; and a second memory unit storing computer-executable instructions; wherein the computer-executable instructions of the first memory unit, when executed by the first processing unit, cause the first computing device to: receive, from the second computing device, an application for execution by the first computing device; execute the application, executing the application including: receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data; responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the first computing device; receive an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user; capture, via an image capture device of the first computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user; store the captured image of the photographic identification of the user; receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user; capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user; transmit the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to the second computing device for comparison and user authentication; receive an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identification of the user and the self-captured image of the user; responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated; capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number; extract location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the first computing device captured over a period of time; transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the second computing device; receive, from the second computing device, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions of the second memory unit, when executed by the second processing unit, cause the second computing device to: generate a plurality of user interfaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable instructions of the second memory unit, when executed by the second processing unit, cause the second computing device to: receive, from a plurality of data sources, different types of data; aggregate the different types of data from the plurality of data sources; and generate, based on the aggregated different types of data from the plurality of data sources, the plurality of user insights.
4. The computing system of claim 1, further including instructions, that, when executed, cause the first computing device to: prior to executing the application on the first computing device, capturing, via a global positioning system of the first computing device, location data for the plurality of locations of the first computing device over the period of time.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the captured location data includes longitude and latitude coordinates and a time and date stamp.
6. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the captured location data is uploaded to a third computing system for storage.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein capturing the image of the photographic identification of the user includes capturing an image of a first side of the photographic identification having an image of the user and scanning a machine readable code on the photographic identification.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein capturing the vehicle identification number includes scanning a machine readable code including the vehicle identification number.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein comparing the self-captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm an identity of the user.
10. A method, comprising: by a computing device having at least one processor, a communication interface and memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to: receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data; responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the computing device; receive, by the at least one processor, an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user; capture, via an image capture device of the computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user; receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user; capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user; transmit, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to a computing platform for comparison and user authentication; receive, by the at least one processor and from the computing platform, an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identification of the user and the self-captured image of the user; responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive, by the at least one processor, an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated; capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number; extract, by the at least one processor, location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the computing device captured over a period of time; transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the computing platform; receive, from the computing platform, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein displaying the plurality of user insights includes displaying a plurality of user interfaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of user insights is based on aggregated data from a plurality of different data sources including different types of data.
13. The method of claim 10, further including: capturing, via a global positioning system of the computing device, location data for the plurality of locations of the computing device over the period of time.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the captured location data includes longitude and latitude coordinates and a time and date stamp.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein capturing the image of the photographic identification of the user includes capturing an image of a first side of the photographic identification having an image of the user and scanning a machine readable code on the photographic identification.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein capturing the vehicle identification number includes scanning a machine readable code including the vehicle identification number.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing the self-captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm the identity of the user.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing the captured image of the user to the captured image of the photographic identification includes using facial recognition techniques to confirm the identity of the user.
19. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive user input requesting initiation of a process to extract data of a user and generate an output based on the extracted data; responsive to receiving the user input, confirm that location services are enabled on the computing device; receive an instruction to capture an image of photographic identification of the user; capture, via an image capture device of the computing device, the image of the photographic identification of the user; receive an instruction to self-capture an image of the user; capture, via the image capture device, the image of the user; transmit the self-captured image of the user and the image of the photographic identification of the user to a second computing device for comparison and user authentication; receive an indication that the user is authenticated based on the comparison of the captured image of the photographic identification of the user and the self-captured image of the user; responsive to receiving the indication that the user is authenticated, receive an instruction to capture a vehicle identification number of a vehicle associated with the user and for which the output is being generated; capture, via the image capture device, the vehicle identification number; extract location data associated with the user, the location data including global positioning system coordinates for a plurality of location entries corresponding to a plurality of locations of the computing device captured over a period of time; transmit the location data and the captured vehicle identification number to the second computing device; receive, from the second computing device, a plurality of user insights including the output including at least one offer; and display the plurality of user insights and the output including the at least one offer.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein displaying the plurality of user insights includes displaying a plurality of user interfaces including the plurality of user insights and the at least one offer.
</claims>
</document>
