<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/18,G10L15/183,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, JIYEON
HWANG, INCHUL
CHOI, SUNGJA
KO, HYEONMOK
PAEON, CHANGHO
LEE, KYENGHUN
JANG, SAEBOM
LEE, EUNJI
JUNG, Pureum
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71120130
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus is provided. The electronic apparatus includes: a memory configured to store at least one instruction; and a processor configured to execute the at least one instruction to: obtain usage information on an application installed in the electronic apparatus, obtain a natural language understanding model, among a plurality of natural language understanding models, corresponding to the application based on the usage information, perform natural language understanding of a user voice input related to the application based on the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, and perform an operation of the application based on the preformed natural language understanding.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store at least one instruction; and a processor configured to execute the at least one instruction to: obtain usage information on an application installed in the electronic apparatus, obtain a natural language understanding model, among a plurality of natural language understanding models, corresponding to the application based on the usage information, perform natural language understanding of a user voice input related to the application based on the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, and perform an operation of the application based on the preformed natural language understanding.
2. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a communication interface, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to: obtain the usage information including at least one of a number of executions of the application and an execution time of the application, control the communication interface to transmit the obtained usage information to an external server, receive the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, among the plurality of natural language understanding models corresponding to a plurality of applications, from the external server via the communication interface, and store the natural language understanding model in the memory.
3. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application is received from the external server, based on the number of executions of the application included in the usage information being greater than or equal to a threshold number, or based on the execution time of the application being greater than or equal to a threshold time.
4. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the application includes resource information that matches information on a predetermined voice utterance and operation information corresponding to the predetermined voice utterance; and the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to, based on the usage information on the application satisfying a predetermined condition, generate the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application according to the information on the predetermined voice utterance and the operation information corresponding to the predetermined voice utterance.
5. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to request a first user voice input corresponding to an operation of the application that is determined, based on the usage information, to be performed for greater than or equal to a threshold number of times or for greater than or equal to a threshold time.
6. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to: determine whether the first user voice input conflicts with a user voice input stored in the memory, based on the first user voice input being input according to the request; request a second user voice input different from the first user voice input, based on determining that the first user voice input conflicts with the stored user voice input; and store, in the memory, the first user voice input in correspondence with the operation of the application, based on determining that the first user voice input does not conflict with the stored user voice input.
7. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to request, from an external server, the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, based on the application being installed in the electronic apparatus.
8. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein: the natural language understanding model includes at least one of a personal model generated based on a voice utterance of a user using the electronic apparatus and a public model generated based on a voice utterance of a public user; and the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to: perform the natural language understanding of the user voice input in the personal model, perform the natural language understanding of the user voice input in the public model, based on the natural language understanding of the user voice input being unsuccessful in the personal model, and transmit the user voice input to an external server to perform the natural language understanding of the user voice input, based on the natural language understanding of the user voice input being unsuccessful in the public model.
9. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the at least one instruction to remove the obtained natural language understanding model, based on the user voice input not being input for greater than or equal to a threshold number of times or for greater than or equal to a threshold period of time.
10. A control method of an electronic apparatus, the control method comprising: obtaining usage information on an application installed in the electronic apparatus; obtaining, based on the usage information, a natural language understanding model, among a plurality of natural language understanding models, corresponding to the application; performing natural language understanding of a user voice input related to the application based on the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application; and performing an operation of the application based on the performed natural language understanding.
11. The control method as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the usage information comprises at least one of a number of executions of the application and an execution time of the application; and wherein the obtaining the natural language understanding model comprises: transmitting the obtained usage information to an external server, receiving the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, among the plurality of natural language understanding models corresponding to a plurality of applications, from the external server, and storing the natural language understanding model in the electronic device.
12. The control method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application is received from the external server, based on the number of executions of the application included in the usage information being greater than or equal to a threshold number, or based on the execution time of the application being greater than or equal to a threshold time.
13. The control method as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the application includes resource information that matches information on a predetermined voice utterance and operation information corresponding to the predetermined voice utterance; and the obtaining the natural language understanding model comprises, based on the usage information on the application satisfying a predetermined condition, generating the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application according to the information on the predetermined voice utterance and the operation information corresponding to the predetermined voice utterance.
14. The control method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising requesting a first user voice input corresponding to an operation of the application that is determined, based on the usage information, to be performed for greater than or equal to a threshold number of times or for greater than or equal to a threshold time.
15. The control method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising: determining whether that the first user voice input conflicts with a input user voice stored in the electronic device, based on the first user voice input being input according to the request; requesting a second user voice input different from the first user voice input, based on determining that the first user voice input conflicts with the stored user voice input; and storing, in the electronic device, the first user voice input in correspondence with the operation of the application, based on determining that the first user voice input does not conflict with the stored user voice input.
16. The control method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising requesting, from an external server, the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, based on the application being installed in the electronic apparatus.
17. The control method as claimed in claim 10, wherein: the natural language understanding model includes at least one of a personal model generated based on a voice utterance of a user using the electronic apparatus and a public model generated based on a voice utterance of a public user; and the performing the natural language understanding of the user voice input comprises: performing the natural language understanding of the user voice input in the personal model, performing the natural language understanding of the user voice input in the public model, based on the natural language understanding of the user voice input being unsuccessful in the personal model, and transmitting the user voice input to an external server to perform the natural language understanding of the user voice input, based on the natural language understanding of the user voice input being unsuccessful in the public model.
18. The control method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising removing the obtained natural language understanding model, based on the user voice input not being input for greater than or equal to a threshold number of times or for greater than or equal to a threshold period of time.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon instructions executable by at least one processor to perform a control method of an electronic apparatus, the control method comprising: obtaining usage information on an application installed in the electronic apparatus; obtaining, based on the usage information, a natural language understanding model, among a plurality of natural language understanding models, corresponding to the application; performing natural language understanding of a user voice input related to the application based on the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application; and performing an operation of the application based on the performed natural language understanding.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable recording medium as claimed in claim 19, wherein: the usage information comprises at least one of a number of executions of the application and an execution time of the application; and wherein the obtaining the natural language understanding model comprises: transmitting the obtained usage information to an external server, receiving the natural language understanding model corresponding to the application, among the plurality of natural language understanding models corresponding to a plurality of applications, from the external server, and storing the natural language understanding model in the electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
