<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/352,A63F13/63,A63F13/79,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACTIVISION PUBLISHING
</assignee>

<inventors>
WYATTE, DEAN RICHARD
ANJOS, CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071277
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Indexing, Searching for, and Retrieving Digital Media
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for indexing and searching for digital media in a multi-player gaming network are disclosed. In a game module stored locally in each client device, a content editor application generates a user interface through which a player may create, or search for, a personal visual symbol. Search queries are processed to determine asset signatures and, based on the asset signatures, corresponding stored personal visual symbol data are identified.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for indexing digital media and extracting one or more signatures of the digital media to enable a search of personal visual symbols in a multi-player gaming network, wherein the multi-player gaming network comprises at least one game server and a plurality of client devices in data communication and located remote from each other, the method comprising: generating, using a content search module stored locally in at least one of the plurality of client devices, a user interface through which a user may input search criteria for one or more digital media; receiving, in the at least one game server, the search criteria from the content search module; processing, in the at least one game server and using a content classification module, the search criteria to determine a plurality of asset signatures, wherein at least some of the asset signatures comprise one or more vectors or matrices comprising data representative of pixel values; querying a database comprising a plurality of stored asset signatures, wherein the database is remote from the at least one of the plurality of client devices and wherein the query comprises the plurality of asset signatures; and retrieving one or more personal visual symbols based upon a comparison of the plurality of stored asset signatures and the determined plurality of asset signatures.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one game server is configured to concurrently communicate with at least 20 of the plurality of client devices.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the content classification module is configured to augment the inputted search criteria prior to processing by transforming the search criteria into a plurality of rendering instructions, wherein the plurality of rendering instructions comprise alphanumeric characters.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the retrieved one or more personal visual symbol data comprises at least one of an image file or a plurality of rendering instructions in an alphanumeric format.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the plurality of stored asset signatures by generating multiple personal visual symbols, in at least one of the plurality of client devices, wherein at least some of the multiple personal visual symbols comprise imagery designed to be not permissible in the multi-player gaming network and at least some of the multiple personal visual symbols comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising receiving, in the at least one game server, the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and assigning one or more labels to each of the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network, wherein each of the one or more labels comprises a value indicative of whether a personal visual symbol is or is not to be permitted in the multi-player gaming network.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising submitting each of the labelled personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the labelled personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network to at least one machine learning module, wherein the at least one machine learning module is configured to generate a trained classification module.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the content classification module comprises the trained classification module.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein at least one of the imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network or the imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network is submitted to the at least one machine learning module in a form of alphanumeric text without an accompanying graphical image.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising assessing at least one of the retrieved one or more personal visual symbols or the determined plurality of asset signatures for similar personal visual symbols.
11. A system for indexing digital media and extracting one or more signatures of the digital media to enable a search of personal visual symbols in a multi-player gaming network, wherein the multi-player gaming network comprises at least one game server and a plurality of client devices in data communication and located remote from each other, the system comprising: one or more processors in a computing device, said one or more processors configured to execute a plurality of executable programmatic instructions to index digital media and extract one or more signatures of the digital media to enable a search of personal visual symbols in the multi-player gaming network; a content search module, stored locally in at least one of the plurality of client devices, configured to generate a user interface through which a user may input search criteria for one or more digital media; a content classification module in the at least one game server, configured to receive and process the search criteria to determine a plurality of asset signatures, wherein at least some of the asset signatures comprise one or more vectors or matrices comprising data representative of pixel values; and a database remote from the at least one of the plurality of client devices and comprising a plurality of stored asset signatures, wherein the database is configured to be queried by a query comprising the plurality of asset signatures and wherein one or more personal visual symbols are retrieved based upon a comparison of the plurality of stored asset signatures and the determined plurality of asset signatures.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the at least one game server is configured to concurrently communicate with at least 20 of the plurality of client devices.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the content classification module is configured to augment the inputted search criteria prior to processing by transforming the search criteria into a plurality of rendering instructions, wherein the plurality of rendering instructions comprise alphanumeric characters.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the retrieved one or more personal visual symbol data comprises at least one of an image file or a plurality of rendering instructions in an alphanumeric format.
15. The system of claim 11, configure to generate the plurality of stored asset signatures by generating multiple personal visual symbols, in at least one of the plurality of client devices, wherein at least some of the multiple personal visual symbols comprise imagery designed to be not permissible in the multi-player gaming network and at least some of the multiple personal visual symbols comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network.
16. The system of claim 15, configured to receive, in the at least one game server, the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and assigning one or more labels to each of the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network, wherein each of the one or more labels comprises a value indicative of whether a personal visual symbol is or is not to be permitted in the multi-player gaming network.
17. The system of claim 16, configured to submit each of the labelled personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network and the labelled personal visual symbols which comprise imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network to at least one machine learning module, wherein the at least one machine learning module is configured to generate a trained classification module.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the content classification module comprises the trained classification module.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the imagery designed to not be permissible in the multi-player gaming network or the imagery designed to be permissible in the multi-player gaming network is submitted to the at least one machine learning module in a form of alphanumeric text without an accompanying graphical image.
20. The system of claim 11, configured to assess at least one of the retrieved one or more personal visual symbols or the determined plurality of asset signatures for similar personal visual symbols.
</claims>
</document>
