<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06K9/62,G06T3/40,G06T3/60,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION OF AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOCH, YAACOV
LEV, TSVI
SCHWARTZBARD, YAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517790
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATED ANALYSIS OF MEDICAL IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a computed implemented method of automatically generating an adapted presentation of at least one candidate anomalous object detected from anatomical imaging data of a target individual, comprising: providing anatomical imaging data of the target individual acquired by an anatomical imaging device, analyzing the anatomical imaging data by a detection classifier for detecting at least one candidate anomalous object of the anatomical imaging data and computed associated location thereof, computing, by a presentation parameter classifier, at least one presentation parameter for adapting a presentation of a sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object according to at least the location of the candidate anomalous object, and generating according to the at least one presentation parameter, an adapted presentation of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computed implemented method of automatically generating an adapted presentation of at least one candidate anomalous object detected from anatomical imaging data of a target individual, comprising: providing anatomical imaging data of the target individual acquired by an anatomical imaging device; analyzing the anatomical imaging data by a detection classifier for detecting at least one candidate anomalous object of the anatomical imaging data and computed associated location thereof; computing, by a presentation parameter classifier, at least one presentation parameter for adapting a presentation of a sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object according to at least the location of the candidate anomalous object; and generating according to the at least one presentation parameter, an adapted presentation of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the presentation parameter classifier further computes the at least one presentation parameter according to at least one neighboring anatomical feature indicative of anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous object.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the at least one anatomical feature indicative of neighboring anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous objects is selected from the group consisting of: organ within which the respective candidate anomalous object is located, tissue type within which the respective candidate anomalous object is located, and normal predefined anatomical landmark in proximity to the respective candidate anomalous object.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the at least one anatomical feature indicative of neighboring anatomical features located in proximity to each respective candidate anomalous objects is computed by a segmentation classifier that segments a patch of the anatomical imaging data that includes the respective candidate anomalous object.
5. The method according to claim 2, wherein the at least one presentation parameter comprises dimensions of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object, the dimensions selected according to the at least one neighboring anatomical feature.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the dimensions are selected for including the external boundaries of the at least one neighboring anatomical feature and at least a portion of anatomical features located in proximity to the at least one candidate anomalous object.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one presentation parameter comprises a scale factor for enlarging the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object, the scale factor is selected according to the at least one neighboring anatomical feature.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the scale factor is inversely correlated to a distance to the at least one neighboring anatomical feature, wherein a relatively larger scale factor is selected for a relatively smaller distance.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one presentation parameter comprises a rotation angle of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object to at least one viewing angle selected according to the at least one neighboring anatomical feature.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one presentation parameter comprises a value of a CT window selected according to the at least one neighboring anatomical feature.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one presentation parameter is selected for improving visual inspection of the at least one candidate anomalous object relative to neighboring anatomical features, for classification of the at least one candidate anomalous object as an anomaly.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the candidate anomalous objects are associated with a probability value indicative of estimate likelihood of the respective candidate anomalous object denoting an actual anomaly, and further comprising selecting a subset of the candidate anomalous objects having probability values within a range denoting statistical uncertainty for automatically designating the candidate anomalous objects as actual anomalies, wherein the at least one presentation parameter is computed for each member of the selected subset of the candidate anomalous objects, and the adapted presentation is generated for each member of the selected subset of candidate anomalous objects according to corresponding at least one presentation parameter.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the range includes candidate anomalous objects having probability values above a lower threshold denoting statistically insignificant likelihood of the respective candidate anomalous object being designated as an actual anomaly, and below an upper threshold denoting statistically significant likelihood of the respective candidate anomalous object being designated as an actual anomaly.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the lower threshold is selected from the range 50-70%, and the upper threshold is selected from the range 90-100%.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein a unique set of presentation parameters is computed independently for each respective candidate anomalous object according to respective corresponding sub-set of the anatomical imaging data, and wherein a unique adapted presentation is computed independent for each respective candidate anomalous object according to respective corresponding unique set of presentation parameters.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the viewing angle is selected to at least one of: remove or reduce obstructions from the anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous object, position anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous object at a predefined reference orientation, and depict selected anatomical features of the at least one candidate anomalous object.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one presentation parameter comprises a plurality of rotation angles, and the adapted presentation comprises a video created by rotation of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging according to the plurality of rotation angles.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing a segmentation of the at least one candidate anomalous object, and wherein the at least one presentation parameter is selected according to the segmentation of the at least one candidate anomalous object.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one presentation parameter is selected from the group consisting of: removing neighboring anatomical features located externally to the boundaries of the segmented at least one candidate anomalous object, coloring the segmented at least one candidate anomalous object with at least one color, highlighting the segmented at least one candidate anomalous object, extracting the segmented at least one candidate anomalous object, and skeletonization of the segmented at least one candidate anomalous object.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining from a reference dataset, at least one reference anatomical imaging data including at least one reference anomalous object correlated to the detected at least one candidate anomalous object; wherein the at least one presentation parameter is selected according to the at least one reference anatomical imaging data; and wherein the adapted presentation of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data is presented in association with a presentation of the at least one reference anatomical image.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the at least one presentation parameter of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object are obtained according to corresponding stored presentation parameters associated with the at least one reference anatomical imaging data.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the presentation of the at least one reference anatomical image is generated using the at least one presentation parameter computed for of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging data comprises 3D imaging data acquired by a 3D imaging device.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the 3D imaging device is selected from the group consisting of: computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and ultrasound (US).
25. A computer implemented method of training a presentation parameter classifier for computing at least one presentation parameter, comprising: providing respective training anatomical imaging data for each of a plurality of sample individuals; computing by a detection classifier, for each respective training anatomical imaging data, an indication of at least one training candidate anomalous object and associated location thereof; providing, for each respective training anatomical imaging data, at least one training presentation parameter for adapting a presentation of a sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object according to at least the location of the candidate anomalous object; and training the presentation parameter classifier for computing at least one presentation parameter for a target anatomical imaging data of a target individual when an indication of at least one candidate anomalous object and associated location thereof computed for the target anatomical imaging data is provided as input into the presentation parameter classifier.
26. The computer implemented method of claim 25, further providing at least one neighboring anatomical feature indicative of anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous object, and training the presentation parameter classifier for computing at least one presentation parameter when an indication of the at least one neighboring anatomical feature indicative of anatomical features located in proximity to the candidate anomalous object is further provided as input into the presentation parameter classifier.
27. A system for automatically generating an adapted presentation of at least one candidate anomalous object detected from anatomical imaging data of a target individual, comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory memory having stored thereon a code for execution by the at least one hardware processor, the code comprising instructions for: obtaining anatomical imaging data of the target individual acquired by an anatomical imaging device; analyzing the anatomical imaging data by a detection classifier for detecting at least one candidate anomalous object of the anatomical imaging data and computed associated location thereof; computing, by a presentation parameter classifier, at least one presentation parameter for adapting a presentation of a sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object according to at least the location of the candidate anomalous object; and generating according to the at least one presentation parameter, an adapted presentation of the sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object.
28. The system of claim 27, further comprising code instructions for: obtaining respective training anatomical imaging data for each of a plurality of sample individuals; computing by a detection classifier, for each respective training anatomical imaging data, an indication of at least one training candidate anomalous object and associated location thereof; obtaining, for each respective training anatomical imaging data, at least one training presentation parameter for adapting a presentation of a sub-set of the anatomical imaging data including the at least one candidate anomalous object according to at least the location of the candidate anomalous object; and training the presentation parameter classifier for computing at least one presentation parameter for a target anatomical imaging data of a target individual when an indication of at least one candidate anomalous object and associated location thereof computed for the target anatomical imaging data is provided as input into the presentation parameter classifier.
</claims>
</document>
