<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/022,A61B5/024,A61B5/145,G06F1/16,G06F17/14,H01Q21/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOVANO
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEABMAN, MICHAEL, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071400
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOVABLE SMARTPHONE CASE FOR RADIO WAVE BASED HEALTH MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
A removable smartphone case is disclosed. The removable smartphone case includes a case body configured to receive a smartphone, a radio frequency (RF) front-end connected to the case body and including a semiconductor substrate, at least one transmit antenna configured to transmit radio waves below the skin surface of a person, and a two-dimensional array of receive antennas configured to receive radio waves, the received radio waves including a reflected portion of the transmitted radio waves, wherein the semiconductor substrate includes circuits configured to generate signals in response to the received radio waves, a digital baseband system configured to generate digital data in response to the signals, wherein the digital data is indicative of a health parameter of the person, and a communications interface configured to transmit the digital data generated by the semiconductor substrate from the removable smartphone case.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A removable smartphone case comprising: a case body configured to receive a smartphone; a radio frequency (RF) front-end connected to the case body and including a semiconductor substrate, at least one transmit antenna configured to transmit radio waves below the skin surface of a person, and a two-dimensional array of receive antennas configured to receive radio waves, the received radio waves including a reflected portion of the transmitted radio waves, wherein the semiconductor substrate includes circuits configured to generate signals in response to the received radio waves; a digital baseband system configured to generate digital data in response to the signals, wherein the digital data is indicative of a health parameter of the person; and a communications interface configured to transmit the digital data generated by the semiconductor substrate from the removable smartphone case.
2. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the at least one transmit antenna and the two-dimensional array of receive antennas are configured for radio waves in a frequency range of 122-126 GHz.
3. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the semiconductor substrate includes at least one transmit component and a two-dimensional array of receive components, wherein the at least one transmit component is collocated with the at least one transmit antenna and the two-dimensional array of receive components are collocated with respective ones of the two-dimensional array of receive antennas.
4. The removable smartphone case of claim 3, wherein the at least one transmit component and the at least one transmit antenna comprise at least two transmit components and at least two transmit antennas and wherein the two-dimensional array of receive components and the two-dimensional array of receive antennas comprises four receive components and four receive antennas and wherein receive components and receive antennas are collocated at opposite sides or corners of the semiconductor substrate.
5. The removable smartphone case of claim 4, wherein the at least two transmit antennas are configured to transmit radio waves at two different polarization orientations and wherein a first set of the at least four receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at one of the at least two different polarization orientations and a second set of the at least four receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at a different one of the at least two different polarization orientations.
6. The removable smartphone case of claim 4, wherein the at least two transmit antennas are configured to transmit radio waves at orthogonal polarization orientations and wherein a first set of the at least four receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at one of the orthogonal polarization orientations and a second set of the at least four receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at the other of the orthogonal polarization orientations.
7. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the at least one transmit antenna comprises at least two transmit antennas configured to transmit radio waves at orthogonal polarization orientations and wherein a first set of the receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at one of the orthogonal polarization orientations and a second set of the receive antennas is configured to receive radio waves at the other of the orthogonal polarization orientations.
8. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the health parameter is a blood glucose level.
9. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the health parameter is a blood pressure.
10. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, wherein the health parameter is a heart rate.
11. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for transmitting radio waves over a 3D space below the skin surface of a person by transmitting from a first transmit antenna and then from a second transmit antenna such that the first transmission does not overlap in time with the second transmission.
12. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by implementing beamforming signal processing.
13. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by using beamforming to focus a receive beam on a particular vein of the person.
14. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by using Doppler effect processing to isolate signals that correspond to relative movement.
15. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the multiple receive antennas by using Doppler effect processing, including fast Fourier transform (FFT) processing, to isolate signals that correspond to relative movement.
16. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by implementing Kalman filters to smooth out noisy data.
17. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by digitally combining received signals from the multiple receive antennas.
18. The removable smartphone case of claim 1, further comprising means for isolating a signal from a particular location in the 3D space in response to receiving the radio waves on the two-dimensional array of receive antennas by discarding signals generated directly from the transmitted radio waves.
</claims>
</document>
