<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/44,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EQUIFAX
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, Kenneth
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67479495
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VERIFICATION OF ACCESS TO SECURED ELECTRONIC RESOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects and examples are disclosed for improving multi-factor authentication techniques to control access to secured electronic resources. In one example, a decisioning computer system evaluates, based on a passive-dimension decision process, an access request, received from a user device, for a secured electronic resource. The passive-dimension decision process can evaluate dimensions associated with the access request, such as identity or device characteristics, to determine whether the dimensions of the access request are outside of norms for the user. Based on the passive-dimension decision model, the decisioning computing device may communicate to the user device an access decision, the access decision describing one or more of an access authorization, a denial of access, or a supplemental authentication challenge.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, a request for verification of access to a secured electronic resource by a user device; determining an authentication challenge level for the user device for access to the secured electronic resource, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes applying a passive-dimension decision model to one or more of the user device or the request, wherein the passive-dimension decision model comprises analyzing one or more of: identity characteristics associated with the user device or the request, and device characteristics associated with the user device or the request; and communicating an access decision to the user device, wherein the access decision is based on the authentication challenge level, and wherein the access decision includes one or more of: authorizing access to the secured electronic resource by the user device without supplemental authentication, denying access to the secured electronic resource by the user device, and presenting a supplemental authentication challenge to the user device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the request for verification of access to the secured electronic resource corresponds to a query requesting whether to challenge the user device with supplemental authentication prior to granting access to the secured electronic resource.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the request is received after the user device obtains primary credentials authorizing access to the secured electronic resource.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the passive-dimension decision model comprises analyzing one or both of the identity characteristics and device characteristics without receiving input from the user device during determining the authentication challenge level.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the passive-dimension decision model comprises one or more of: obtaining input session data associated with the request from the user device and comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data; determining an identity of a user and searching an identity database using the identity; determining an identifier associated with the user and searching a historical usage database using the identifier; determining a device identifier associated with the user device and searching a device database using the device identifier; determining a location profile associated with the user or the user device and searching a location database using the location profile; or determining a user interaction profile associated with the request for access to the secured electronic resource and comparing the user interaction profile with previously obtained user interaction profile data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the input session data corresponds to data input responsive to one or more informational queries presented by the user device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes using a result of comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data by determining aspects of the input session data that match the previously obtained reference data, and determining additional aspects of the input session data that differ from the previously obtained reference data.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes one or more of: verifying whether the identity associated with the user appears in the historical usage database in association with the user or other users, verifying whether the device identifier appears in the device database in association with the user or with other users, verifying whether aspects of the location profile match entries in the location database associated with the user or the user device, or verifying whether aspects of the user interaction profile match or differ from the previously obtained user interaction profile data.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the location profile includes one or more of: receiving a geographical coordinate obtained by a position sensor of user device, determining a geographical coordinate associated with the user device by querying a geolocation database with a device identifier associated with the user device, or determining a historical usage pattern of geographical coordinates associated with the user device.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the user interaction profile includes one or more of tracking keystrokes input by a user or tracking mouse movements input by a user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the identity characteristics includes one or more of: obtaining input session data associated with the request from the user device and comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data; determining an identity of a user and searching an identity database using the identity; or determining an identifier associated with the user and searching a historical usage database using the identifier.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein presenting the supplemental authentication challenge to the user device includes one or more of: presenting a multi-factor authentication query at the user device; or presenting a knowledge-based authentication query at the user device.
13. A authentication decisioning system comprising: a processing device; a non-transitory computer-readable medium included in or communicatively coupled to the processing device, the non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a data structure for storing user data records and instructions that are executable by the processing device to cause the authentication decisioning system to: receive, at a computing device, a request for verification of access to a secured electronic resource by a user device; determine an authentication challenge level for the user device for access to the secured electronic resource, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes applying a passive-dimension decision model to one or more of the user device or the request, wherein the passive-dimension decision model comprises analyzing one or more of: identity characteristics associated with the user device or the request, and device characteristics associated with the user device or the request; and communicate an access decision to the user device, wherein the access decision is based on the authentication challenge level, and wherein the access decision includes one or more of: authorizing access to the secured electronic resource by the user device without supplemental authentication, denying access to the secured electronic resource by the user device, and presenting a supplemental authentication challenge to the user device.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the request for verification of access to the secured electronic resource corresponds to a query requesting whether to challenge the user device with supplemental authentication prior to granting access to the secured electronic resource.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the request is received after the user device obtains primary credentials authorizing access to the secured electronic resource.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein applying the passive-dimension decision model comprises one or more of: obtaining input session data associated with the request from the user device and comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data; determining an identity of a user and searching an identity database using the identity; determining an identifier associated with the user and searching a historical usage database using the identifier; determining a device identifier associated with the user device and searching a device database using the device identifier; determining a location profile associated with the user or the user device and searching a location database using the location profile; or determining a user interaction profile associated with the request for access to the secured electronic resource and comparing the user interaction profile with previously obtained user interaction profile data.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes using a result of comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data by determining aspects of the input session data that match the previously obtained reference data, and determining additional aspects of the input session data that differ from the previously obtained reference data.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein determining the authentication challenge level includes one or more of: verifying whether the identity associated with the user appears in the historical usage database in association with the user or other users, verifying whether the device identifier appears in the device database in association with the user or with other users, verifying whether aspects of the location profile match entries in the location database associated with the user or the user device, or verifying whether aspects of the user interaction profile match or differ from the previously obtained user interaction profile data.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein analyzing the identity characteristics includes one or more of: obtaining input session data associated with the request from the user device and comparing the input session data with previously obtained reference data; determining an identity of a user and searching an identity database using the identity; or determining an identifier associated with the user and searching a historical usage database using the identifier.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein presenting the supplemental authentication challenge to the user device includes one or more of: presenting a multi-factor authentication query at the user device; or presenting a knowledge-based authentication query at the user device.
</claims>
</document>
