<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MBP INSIGHTS, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Simon, James J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102408
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING MERCHANT PERFORMANCE USING REAL-TIME CONSUMER TRANSACTION FEEDBACK
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and storage media for operating a consumer feedback incentive system are disclosed. Exemplary implementations may: transmit one or more incentive offers to one or more computing devices associated with one or more consumers; receive real-time survey feedback data from the one or more computing devices associated with the one or more consumers; provide a merchant analytics platform to a merchant associated with the one or more incentive offers, the merchant analytics platform comprising a user interface, wherein the user interface of the merchant analytics platform comprises a plurality of analytics display sections; and receive, via a user interface, one or more comparative representations organized according to selections made by the merchant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: transmit one or more incentive offers to one or more computing devices associated with one or more consumers; receive real-time survey feedback data from the one or more computing devices associated with the one or more consumers; and receive one or more selections from the merchant, the selections representing attributes of one or more comparative representations the merchant wishes to view.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to display, via a user interface, at least one of the one or more comparative representations.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to provide a merchant analytics platform to a merchant associated with the one or more incentive offers, the merchant analytics platform comprising a user interface, wherein the user interface of the merchant analytics platform comprises a plurality of analytics display sections.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback associated with the merchant compared with feedback data associated with one or more competitors of the merchant.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more comparative representations comprise at least one representation selected from: a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a similar industry as the merchant; a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a specified geographic area; and a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants selected by the merchant.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein one or more of the selections comprises a time-based limitation.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises a comparison of the merchant's performance to one or more other stores of the merchant.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein one or more of the selections comprises a geographical limitation.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises a graphical presentation of at least some of the real-time survey feedback data.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein the user interface is displayed on a mobile application of a mobile device associated with the merchant.
11. The system of claim 2, wherein the user interface is displayed in a web browser.
12. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the plurality of analytics display sections is configurable by the merchant.
13. A method of operating an analytics platform of a consumer feedback incentive system, the method comprising: transmitting one or more incentive offers to one or more computing devices associated with one or more consumers; receiving real-time survey feedback data from the one or more computing devices associated with the one or more consumers; and receiving one or more selections from the merchant, the selections representing attributes of one or more comparative representations the merchant wishes to view.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising displaying, via a user interface, at least one of the one or more comparative representations.
15. The method of claim 13 further comprising providing a merchant analytics platform to a merchant associated with the one or more incentive offers, the merchant analytics platform comprising a user interface, wherein the user interface of the merchant analytics platform comprises a plurality of analytics display sections.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback associated with the merchant compared with feedback data associated with one or more competitors of the merchant.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more comparative representations comprise at least one representation selected from: a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a similar industry as the merchant; a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a specified geographic area; and a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants selected by the merchant.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein one or more of the selections comprises a time-based limitation.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises a comparison of the merchant's performance to one or more other stores of the merchant.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein one or more of the selections comprises a geographical limitation.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of analytics display sections is configurable by the merchant.
22. The method of claim 14, wherein the graphical user interface is displayed on a mobile application of a mobile device associated with the merchant.
23. The method of claim 14, wherein the graphical user interface is displayed in a web browser.
24. A non-transient computer-readable storage medium having instructions embodied therein, the instructions being executable by one or more processors to perform a method comprising: transmitting one or more incentive offers to one or more computing devices associated with one or more consumers; receiving real-time survey feedback data from the one or more computing devices associated with the one or more consumers; providing a merchant analytics platform to a merchant associated with the one or more incentive offers, the merchant analytics platform comprising a user interface, wherein the user interface of the merchant analytics platform comprises a plurality of analytics display sections; receiving one or more selections from the merchant, the selections representing attributes of one or more comparative representations the merchant wishes to view; and displaying, via the user interface, at least one of the one or more comparative representations.
25. The non-transient computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the method further comprises displaying, via a user interface, at least one of the one or more comparative representations.
26. The non-transient computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein at least one of the one or more comparative representations comprises at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback associated with the merchant compared with feedback data associated with one or more competitors of the merchant.
27. The non-transient computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the one or more comparative representations comprise at least one representation selected from: a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a similar industry as the merchant; a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants in a specified geographic area; and a comparison of at least a portion of the real-time survey feedback data associated with the merchant to feedback data associated with one or more other merchants selected by the merchant.
</claims>
</document>
