<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
DERAKHSHANI, REZA R.
STORM, GREGORY LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PASSIVE IDENTIFICATION OF A KIOSK USER
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for a biometric authentication system. In one aspect, a method includes identifying a target user in proximity to a kiosk. Data for the target user is gathered from equipment on and in proximity to the kiosk. The gathered data is processed to generate a feature vector. The feature vector includes at least motion characteristics of the target user as the target user approaches the kiosk and touch input characteristics of the target user at the kiosk. A candidate user to compare to the target user is determined. Reference data for the candidate user is retrieved. The feature vector is compared to the reference data for the candidate user to determine a likelihood that the target user is the candidate user. A kiosk application is customized for the target user based on the determined likelihood.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for authenticating a user at a kiosk device, the method being executed by one or more processors and comprising: identifying a target user in proximity to a kiosk; gathering data for the target user from equipment on and in proximity to the kiosk; processing the gathered data to generate a feature vector for the target user, the feature vector including at least motion characteristics of the target user as the target user approaches the kiosk and touch input characteristics of the target user at the kiosk; determining a candidate user to compare to the target user; retrieving reference data for the candidate user; comparing the feature vector to the reference data for the candidate user to determine a likelihood that the target user is the candidate user; and customizing a kiosk application for the target user based on the determined likelihood.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the target user is a user which has not yet been positively identified.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the motion characteristics include gait characteristics of the target user.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the motion characteristics comprise data that reflects an effect the target user has on a wireless signal.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises granting access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is more than a predetermined threshold.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises denying access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is less than the predetermined threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the candidate user comprises receiving an identifier of the candidate user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the candidate user comprises identifying the candidate user based on a portion of the feature vector.
9. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying a target user in proximity to a kiosk; gathering data for the target user from equipment on and in proximity to the kiosk; processing the gathered data to generate a feature vector for the target user, the feature vector including at least motion characteristics of the target user as the target user approaches the kiosk and touch input characteristics of the target user at the kiosk; determining a candidate user to compare to the target user; retrieving reference data for the candidate user; comparing the feature vector to the reference data for the candidate user to determine a likelihood that the target user is the candidate user; and customizing a kiosk application for the target user based on the determined likelihood.
10. The computer-readable storage media of claim 9, wherein the target user is a user which has not yet been positively identified.
11. The computer-readable storage media of claim 9, wherein the motion characteristics include gait characteristics of the target user.
12. The computer-readable storage media of claim 9, wherein the motion characteristics comprise data that reflects an effect the target user has on a wireless signal.
13. The computer-readable storage media of claim 9, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises granting access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is more than a predetermined threshold.
14. The computer-readable storage media of claim 13, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises denying access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is less than the predetermined threshold.
15. A system, comprising: a camera; at least one transceiver; a server system comprising a data store; and a kiosk device comprising: a one or more processors; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying a target user in proximity to a kiosk; gathering data for the target user from equipment on and in proximity to the kiosk; processing the gathered data to generate a feature vector for the target user, the feature vector including at least motion characteristics of the target user as the target user approaches the kiosk and touch input characteristics of the target user at the kiosk; determining a candidate user to compare to the target user; retrieving reference data for the candidate user; comparing the feature vector to the reference data for the candidate user to determine a likelihood that the target user is the candidate user; and customizing a kiosk application for the target user based on the determined likelihood.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the target user is a user which has not yet been positively identified.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the motion characteristics include gait characteristics of the target user.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the motion characteristics comprise data that reflects an effect the target user has on a wireless signal.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises granting access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is more than a predetermined threshold.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein customizing the kiosk application comprises denying access to the kiosk application when the determined likelihood is less than the predetermined threshold.
</claims>
</document>
