<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/36,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
STENNETH, LEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071582
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PREDICTION OF ROADWORK ZONE
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for prediction of a roadwork zone on at least a second road segment is provided. The method comprises retrieving at least one of map data or first sensor data for at least a first road segment. The method also comprises retrieving ground truth data for at least the first road segment, the ground truth data indicating a true presence or a true absence of a roadwork zone on the at least first road segment. The method further comprises receiving second sensor data associated with the at least second road segment. The method further comprises generating roadwork zone data of the roadwork zone on the at least second road segment, based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, the ground truth data, and the second sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for prediction of a roadwork zone on at least a second road segment, the method comprising: retrieving at least one of map data or first sensor data for at least a first road segment; retrieving ground truth data for at least the first road segment, wherein the ground truth data indicates a true presence or a true absence of a roadwork zone on the at least first road segment; receiving second sensor data associated with the at least second road segment; and generating roadwork zone data of the roadwork zone on the at least second road segment, based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, the ground truth data, and the second sensor data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a trained machine learning model based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, and the ground truth data; and generating, by the trained machine learning model, the roadwork zone data based on the second sensor data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the first sensor data and the second sensor data comprises information about one or more of: presence or absence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, speed limit signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change for the respective first road segment and the second road segment.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining an increasing speed funnel for the respective first road segment and the second road segment based on two or more consecutive speed limit signs indicating gradual reduction in speed limit for the corresponding first road segment and the second road segment.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising predicting, by the trained machine learning model, a start of the roadwork zone on the second road segment, based on the second sensor data indicating presence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change on the second road segment, and/or based on the determined increasing speed funnel for the second road segment.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising deactivating an autonomous driving mode of a target vehicle based on the trained machine learning model predicting start of the roadwork zone on the second road segment ahead of the target vehicle.
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining a decreasing speed funnel for the respective first road segment and the second road segment based on two or more consecutive speed limit signs indicating gradual increase in speed limit for the corresponding first road segment and the second road segment.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising predicting, by the trained machine learning model, an end of the roadwork zone on the second road segment based on the second sensor data indicating at least one of absence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change within a predetermined length of the second road segment, and presence of speed limit increasing signs on the second road segment, and/or based on the determined decreasing speed funnel for the second road segment.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising activating an autonomous driving mode of a target vehicle travelling on the road based on the machine learning model predicting end of the roadwork zone on the second road segment ahead of the target vehicle.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the map data comprises information about one or more of functional class, number of lanes, speed limits, rural flag, urban flag, tunnel flag and bridge flag associated with each of the first road segment and the second road segment.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining road features based on the map data, wherein the road features comprise information about one or more of roadwork zone definition based on a location of the road and historical speed of vehicles on the road.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising validating the generated roadwork zone data based on the determined road features.
13. A system for prediction of roadwork zone on at least a second road segment, the system comprising: at least one memory configured to store computer program code instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the computer program code instructions to: retrieve at least one of map data or first sensor data for at least a first road segment; retrieve ground truth data for at least the first road segment, the ground truth data indicating a true presence or a true absence of a roadwork zone on the at least first road segment; receive second sensor data associated with the at least second road segment, wherein the first sensor data and the second sensor data comprises information about presence or absence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, speed limit signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change for the respective first road segment and the second road segment; and generating roadwork zone data of the roadwork zone on the at least second road segment, based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, the ground truth data, and the second sensor data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: generate a trained machine learning model based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, and the ground truth data; and generate, by the trained machine learning model, the roadwork zone data based on the second sensor data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine an increasing speed funnel for the respective first road segment and the second road segment based on two or more consecutive speed limit signs indicating gradual reduction in speed limit for the corresponding first road segment and the second road segment; and determine a decreasing speed funnel for the respective first road segment and the second road segment based on two or more consecutive speed limit signs indicating gradual increase in speed limit for the corresponding first road segment and the second road segment.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to predict, by the trained machine learning model, a start of the roadwork zone on the second road segment for a vehicle travelling on the road based on the second sensor data indicating presence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change on the second road segment, and/or based on the determined increasing speed funnel for the second road segment, ahead of the vehicle.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to deactivate an autonomous driving mode of a target vehicle, based on the trained machine learning model predicting start of the roadwork zone on the second road segment ahead of the target vehicle.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to predict, by the trained machine learning model, an end of the roadwork zone on the second road segment for a vehicle based the second sensor data indicating at least one of absence of one or more of roadwork announcement signs, chicane announcement signs, passing restriction signs, lane shift signs and lane markings change within a predetermined length of the second road segment, and presence of speed limit increasing signs on the second road segment, and/or based on the determined decreasing speed funnel for the second road segment, ahead of the vehicle.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to activate an autonomous driving mode of a target vehicle based on the machine learning model predicting end of the roadwork zone on the second road segment ahead of the target vehicle.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for prediction of roadwork zone on a road, carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to perform: retrieving at least one of map data or first sensor data for at least a first road segment; retrieving ground truth data for at least the first road segment, the ground truth data indicating a true presence or a true absence of a roadwork zone on the at least first road segment; receiving second sensor data associated with the at least second road segment; and generating roadwork zone data of the roadwork zone on the at least second road segment based on the at least one of map data or the first sensor data, the ground truth data, and the second sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
