<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q5/00,G10K13/00,G10K9/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUBASINGHA, SUBASINGHA SHAMINDA
HARPER, JACOB AVI
YANG, JEREMY YI-XIONG
KOHEN, MICHAEL MOSHE
MERRILL, FORREST LEIGHTON
KAROL, KEVIN MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70728759
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC SOUND EMISSION FOR VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle computing system may implement techniques to dynamically adjust a volume and/or frequency of a sound emitted from a vehicle to warn an object (e.g., dynamic object) of a potential conflict with the vehicle. The techniques may include determining a baseline noise level and/or frequencies proximate to the object. The baseline noise level and/or frequencies may be determined based on an identification of one or more noise generating objects in the environment. The vehicle computing system may determine the volume and/or a frequency of the sound based in part on the baseline noise level and/or frequencies, an urgency of the warning, a probability of conflict between the vehicle and the object, a speed of the object, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a sensor coupled to a vehicle; a speaker coupled to the vehicle; one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, configure the system to: identify, based on sensor data from the sensor, an object in an environment associated with the vehicle; determine a noise level proximate to the object, wherein the noise level is based at least in part on noise events generated by one or more other objects located within a threshold distance of the object; determine, based at least in part on the noise level, at least one of a volume or a frequency of a sound to emit; and emit, via the speaker, the sound at the at least one of the volume or the frequency.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: determine a first range of frequencies corresponding to the noise events generated by the other objects, wherein the frequency is based at least in part on the first range of frequencies.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one of the volume or the frequency are determined based on machine learned outputs of noises emitted by identified objects proximate to the object.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the sound is emitted in a beam formed audio signal directed toward the object.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: determine, based on the sensor data, a first trajectory associated with the vehicle; determine, based on the sensor data, a second trajectory associated with the object; determine a potential conflict between the vehicle and the object based on the first trajectory and the second trajectory; determine an action to take to avoid the potential conflict; and cause the vehicle to take the action.
6. A method comprising: identifying, based on sensor data from a sensor coupled to a vehicle, an object in an environment associated with the vehicle; determining a noise level proximate to the object; determining, based at least in part on the noise level proximate to the object, at least one of a volume or a frequency of a sound to emit; and causing the sound to be emitted via a speaker at the at least one of the volume or the frequency.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the noise level is based on noise events generated within a threshold distance of the object, the method further comprising: determining a first range of frequencies corresponding to the noise level proximate to the object, wherein the frequency is based at least in part on the first range of frequencies.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the object is a first object, the method further comprising: identifying a second object, wherein determining the volume of the sound to emit is based at least in part on the second object.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining a speed of the vehicle traveling through the environment, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency is based at least in part on the speed of the vehicle.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining a trajectory associated with the object; and determining, based at least in part on the trajectory, a probability that the object will be within a threshold distance of the vehicle at a future time, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency of the sound to emit is based at least in part on the probability.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining a change in the trajectory associated with the object; determining, based at least in part on the change in the trajectory, to stop emitting the sound via the speaker.
12. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency is based in part on at least one of: an occupancy of the vehicle; a road condition; a location of the vehicle in the environment; a speed of the vehicle in the environment; a time of day in which the vehicle is operating; a day in a week in which the vehicle is operating; or a weather condition in the environment.
13. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining a first trajectory associated with the object at a first time, wherein the first trajectory corresponds to a potential conflict between the vehicle and the object; determining a second trajectory associated with the object at a second time; determining that a difference between the first trajectory and the second trajectory is less than a threshold value; determining at least one of a second volume or a second frequency of a second sound to emit based at least in part on the difference between the first trajectory and the second trajectory being less than the threshold value; and causing the second sound to be emitted via the speaker at the at least one of the second volume or the second frequency.
14. The method of claim 6, further comprising: identify a classification associated with the object, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency of the sound to emit is based at least in part on the classification associated with the object.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause a vehicle to perform operations comprising: identifying, based on sensor data from a sensor coupled to the vehicle, an object in an environment associated with the vehicle; determining a noise level proximate to the object; determining, based at least in part on the noise level proximate to the object, at least one of a volume or a frequency of a sound to emit; and causing the sound to be emitted via a speaker coupled to the vehicle at the at least one of the volume or the frequency.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the noise level is determined based on: determining a first distance between the object and a first noise generating object proximate to the object; accessing a database of noises to determine a first noise associated with the first noise generating object; and determining a perceived noise level of the first noise by the object based at least in part on the first distance.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein the noise level is further determined based on: determining a second distance between the object and a second noise generating object proximate to the object; accessing the database of noises to determine a second noise associated with the second noise generating object; determining a second perceived noise level of the second noise by the object based at least in part on the second distance; and combining the first noise and the second noise to determine the noise level proximate to the object.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining a speed of the vehicle traveling through the environment, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency is based at least in part on the speed of the vehicle.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, the operations further comprising: determining a trajectory associated with the object; and determining, based at least in part on the trajectory, a probability that the object will be within a threshold distance of the vehicle at a future time, wherein determining the at least one of the volume or the frequency of the sound to emit is based at least in part on the probability.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the sound is a first sound and the trajectory is a first trajectory associated with the object at a first time, the operations further comprising: determining a second trajectory associated with the object at a second time; determining, based at least in part on the second trajectory, a second probability that the object will be within a second threshold distance of the vehicle at a second future time; determining at least one of a second volume or a second frequency of a second sound to emit based at least in part on the second probability; and causing the second sound to be emitted via the speaker at the at least one of the second volume or the second frequency.
</claims>
</document>
