<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA
</assignee>

<inventors>
TERRAZAS GONZALEZ, JESUS DAVID
KINSNER, WITOLD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65722244
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ANALYZING INTERNET TRAFFIC TO DETECT DISTRIBUTED DENIAL OF SERVICE (DDOS) ATTACK
</title>

<abstract>
A system for analyzing internet traffic passing through an exposed computer device includes a preprocessing module for filtering the traffic so as to substantially isolate from the traffic features carrying data representative of a cyberattack, a perception module for extracting the data from the isolated features, a detection module for processing the extracted data to detect characteristics indicative of the cyberattack, and a mitigation module for generating responsive action if a cyberattack is detected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for analyzing traffic passing through an exposed computer device comprising: a controller module for controlling operation of the system; an input for receiving the traffic and an output for sending data to the exposed computer device; a preprocessing module configured to filter the preprocessed traffic so as to substantially isolate from the traffic features carrying data representative of a cyberattack; a perception module configured to extract the data from the features; a detection module configured to process the extracted data using a machine learning algorithm arranged to detect characteristics indicative of the cyberattack and to produce a prescribed output signal when the cyberattack has been detected; and a mitigation module configured to generate a responsive action to the cyberattack in response to the prescribed output signal of the detection module.
2. The system according to claim 1 wherein the system is implemented in at least one of hardware and software.
3. The system according to claim 1 or 2 further including a conditioning module intermediate the preprocessing module and the perception module such that the isolated features pass through the conditioning module so as to be conditioned prior to being received by the perception module.
4. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 3 further including a storage module configured to store the extracted data in a manner available for use outside of the system.
5. The system according to claim 4 wherein the storage module is intermediate the perception module and the detection module.
6. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 5 wherein the controller module is configured for bidirectional communication with each other module.
7. The system according to claim 3 wherein the preprocessing module and the conditioning module are configured for bidirectional communication with one another.
8. The system according to claim 3 or 7 wherein the conditioning module and the perception module are configured for bidirectional communication with one another.
9. The system according to claim 4 or 5 wherein the perception module and the storage module are configured for bidirectional communication with one another.
10. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5 and 9 wherein the storage module and the detection module are configured for bidirectional communication with one another.
11. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 10 wherein the detection module and the mitigation module are configured for bidirectional communication with one another.
12. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 11 wherein the preprocessing module is configured to communicate with the mitigation module.
13. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 12 wherein the preprocessing module is configured for bidirectional communication with the exposed computer device.
14. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 13 wherein the mitigation module is configured for bidirectional communication with the exposed computer device.
15. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 14 wherein each of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module is located in a common computing environment.
16. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 15 wherein one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module and another one thereof are located in different computing environments.
17. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9 and 10 wherein the storage module is located in a common computing environment the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
18. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9 and 10 wherein the storage module is located in a distinct computing environment from at least one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
19. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 18 wherein each of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module is located at a common geographical location.
20. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 19 wherein one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module and another one thereof are located at distinct geo-locations.
21. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9, 10, 17 and 18 wherein the storage module is located at a common geographical location with the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
22. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9, 10, 17 and 18 wherein the storage module is located at a distinct geo-location from at least one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
23. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 22 wherein each of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module is located in a common logical networking environment.
24. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 23 wherein one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module and another one thereof are located in different networking environments.
25. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9, 10, 17, 18, 21 and 22 wherein the storage module is located at in a common logical networking environment with the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
26. The system according to any one of claims 4, 5, 9, 10, 17, 18, 21 and 22 wherein the storage module is located in a different logical networking environment from at least one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module.
27. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 26 wherein one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module and another one thereof are communicable using tokens carrying information or instructions.
28. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 27 wherein there is formed a feedback loop between one of the controller module, the preprocessing module, the perception module, the detection module, and the mitigation module and another one thereof.
29. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 28 wherein the preprocessing module defines the input of the system.
30. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 29 wherein the mitigation module defines the output of the system.
31. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 30 wherein the perception module is configured to apply zero-crossing rate to the isolated features to form the extracted data.
32. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 32 wherein the machine learning algorithm of the detection module comprises Hebbian learning.
33. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 31 wherein the machine learning algorithm of the detection module comprises adaptive resonance theory.
</claims>
</document>
