<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N5/0789,G01N33/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUOTRI, ALYSSON RENATO
Negraes, Priscilla Davidson
Trujillo, Cleber
Mesci, Pinar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65040342
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FUNCTIONAL CORTICAL ORGANOIDS, METHODS OF MAKING, AND USES THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides methods of making functional cortical organoids from somatic cells and stem cells and methods of using the functional organoids.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An in vitro method of generating functional cortical organoids from neural progenitor cells (NPCs) comprising: culturing NPCs in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), neutropin-3 (NT-3), a fibroblast growth factor, L-ascorbic acid, and dibutyryl-cAMP to generate functional cortical organoids, wherein the functional cortical organoids are able to produce nested oscillatory waves upon differentiation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the serum-free supplemented neurobasal media is supplemented with GlutaMAX™, Gem21 NeruoPlex™ and non-essential amino acids.
3. (canceled)
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the fibroblast growth factor is FGF2.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the cortical organoids are comprised predominantly of proliferative neural progenitor cells (NPCs) that have self-organized into a polarized neuroepithelium-like structure.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: differentiating the functional cortical organoids in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media for at least 60 days.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the functional cortical organoids comprise a proliferative region that is surrounded by intermediate progenitor cells expressing TBR2+ and deep cortical layer markers TBR1+ and CTIP2+ and wherein cortical plate folding is observed in the cortical organoids.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: differentiating the functional cortical organoids in serum free supplemented neurobasal media for at least 300 days and up to 2 years.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the functional cortical organoids comprise pyramidally-shaped neurons, dendritic spines and structurally defined synapses.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the functional cortical organoids are cultured with cancer cells or cancer stem cells to form cortical organoids comprising cancerous tumors.
11. (canceled)
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the cancer cells are cells from a cancer selected from the group consisting of adrenocortical carcinoma, AIDS-related cancers, AIDS-related lymphoma, anal cancer, anorectal cancer, cancer of the anal canal, appendix cancer, childhood cerebellar astrocytoma, childhood cerebral astrocytoma, basal cell carcinoma, skin cancer (non-melanoma), biliary cancer, extrahepatic bile duct cancer, intrahepatic bile duct cancer, bladder cancer, urinary bladder cancer, bone and joint cancer, osteosarcoma and malignant fibrous histiocytoma, brain cancer, brain tumor, brain stem glioma, cerebellar astrocytoma, cerebral astrocytoma/malignant glioma, ependymoma, medulloblastoma, supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors, visual pathway and hypothalamic glioma, breast cancer, bronchial adenomas/carcinoids, carcinoid tumor, gastrointestinal, nervous system cancer, nervous system lymphoma, central nervous system cancer, central nervous system lymphoma, cervical cancer, childhood cancers, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic myeloproliferative disorders, colon cancer, colorectal cancer, cutaneous T-cell lymphoma, lymphoid neoplasm, mycosis fungoides, Seziary Syndrome, endometrial cancer, esophageal cancer, extracranial germ cell tumor, extragonadal germ cell tumor, extrahepatic bile duct cancer, eye cancer, intraocular melanoma, retinoblastoma, gallbladder cancer, gastric (stomach) cancer, gastrointestinal carcinoid tumor, gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST), germ cell tumor, ovarian germ cell tumor, gestational trophoblastic tumor glioma, head and neck cancer, hepatocellular (liver) cancer, Hodgkin lymphoma, hypopharyngeal cancer, intraocular melanoma, ocular cancer, islet cell tumors (endocrine pancreas), Kaposi Sarcoma, kidney cancer, renal cancer, laryngeal cancer, acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, hairy cell leukemia, lip and oral cavity cancer, liver cancer, lung cancer, non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, AIDS-related lymphoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, primary central nervous system lymphoma, Waldenstram macroglobulinemia, medulloblastoma, melanoma, intraocular (eye) melanoma, merkel cell carcinoma, mesothelioma malignant, mesothelioma, metastatic squamous neck cancer, mouth cancer, cancer of the tongue, multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome, mycosis fungoides, myelodysplastic syndromes, myelodysplastic/myeloproliferative diseases, chronic myelogenous leukemia, acute myeloid leukemia, multiple myeloma, chronic myeloproliferative disorders, nasopharyngeal cancer, neuroblastoma, oral cancer, oral cavity cancer, oropharyngeal cancer, ovarian cancer, ovarian epithelial cancer, ovarian low malignant potential tumor, pancreatic cancer, islet cell pancreatic cancer, paranasal sinus and nasal cavity cancer, parathyroid cancer, penile cancer, pharyngeal cancer, pheochromocytoma, pineoblastoma and supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors, pituitary tumor, plasma cell neoplasm/multiple myeloma, pleuropulmonary blastoma, prostate cancer, rectal cancer, renal pelvis and ureter, transitional cell cancer, retinoblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, salivary gland cancer, ewing family of sarcoma tumors, soft tissue sarcoma, uterine cancer, uterine sarcoma, skin cancer (non-melanoma), skin cancer (melanoma), papillomas, actinic keratosis and keratoacanthomas, merkel cell skin carcinoma, small intestine cancer, soft tissue sarcoma, squamous cell carcinoma, stomach (gastric) cancer, supratentorial primitive neuroectodermal tumors, testicular cancer, throat cancer, thymoma, thymoma and thymic carcinoma, thyroid cancer, transitional cell cancer of the renal pelvis and ureter and other urinary organs, gestational trophoblastic tumor, urethral cancer, endometrial uterine cancer, uterine sarcoma, uterine corpus cancer, vaginal cancer, vulvar cancer, and Wilm's Tumor.
13. (canceled)
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the cancer cells are glioblastoma cells, glioblastoma multiforme cells, neuroblastoma cells, astrocytoma cells, glioma cells, medullomyoblastoma cells, neuroglioma cells, endothelioma cells, and gliosarcoma cells.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cancer cells are glioblastoma stem cells, glioblastoma multiforme stem cells, neuroblastoma stem cells, astrocytoma stem cells, glioma stem cells, medullomyoblastoma stem cells, neuroglioma stem cells, endothelioma stem cells, and gliosarcoma stem cells.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the cancer cells are selected from the group consisting of A172 cells, BC3H1 cells, Bend.3 cells, BT142 cells, CCF-STTG1 cells, CHLA-01-MED cells, CHLA-02-ATRT cells, CHL-157 cells, CHP-212 cells, D283 cells, D341 cells, DAOY cells, DBTRG cells, DBTRG-05MG cells, EP-1 cells, GMB146, GMB157, HBMB03 cells, H4 cells, Hs 683 cells, IMR-32 cells, LN-18 cells, LEE cells, LN-229 cells, LN-827 cells, M059J cells, M059K cells, N1E-115 cells, NB41A3 cells, Neuro-2a cells, PFSK-1 cells, SF-295 cells, SF-539 cells, SF-767 cells, SNB-19 cells, SW 1088 cells, SW 1783 cells, T98G cells, U-87 MG cells, U-118MG cells, U-138 MG cells, U251 cells, 9L cells, C6 cells, C6/A cells, F98EGFR cells, G98npEGFRvIII cells, F98 cells, RG2 cells, glioblastoma stem cell (GSC) line 387, GSC line 3832, and GSC line 3565.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the NPCs are differentiated from stem cells comprising the steps of: (i) culturing stem cells in feeder-free media comprising inhibitors for bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β) pathways; (ii) subculturing the stem cells of (i) in suspension under rotation in the presence of a ROCK inhibitor to form free-floating spheres; (iii) culturing the free-floating spheres in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising inhibitors for BMP and TGF-β pathways to obtain neuronal progenitor cells (NPCs); and (iv) expanding/proliferating the NPCs by first culturing the NPCs in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising a fibroblast growth factor (FGF) and then culturing the NPCS in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising the FGF and an epidermal growth factor (EGF).
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the stem cells are induced pluripotent stem cells.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the induced pluripotent stems cells are obtained from fibroblasts.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the fibroblasts are obtained from a subject having a neurological disease, disorder or syndrome.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the fibroblasts are obtained from a patient that is suspected of having cancer or has a cancer.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the patient that is suspected of having brain cancer or has a brain cancer.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein for (i) the inhibitors for BMP and transforming growth TGF-β pathways comprise SB431542 and Dorsomorphin.
24. The method of claim 17, wherein for (iii) the inhibitors for BMP and transforming growth TGF-β pathways comprise SB431542 and Dorsomorphin.
25. The method of claim 17, wherein for (iii) the serum-free neurobasal media is supplemented with GlutaMAX™, Gem21 NeuroPlex™, N2 NeuroPlex™, and nonessential amino acids.
26. The method of claim 17, wherein for (iv) the serum-free neurobasal media is supplemented with GlutaMAX™, Gem21 NeuroPlex™, N2 NeuroPlex™, and nonessential amino acids.
27. The method of claim 17, wherein for (iv) the fibroblast growth factor is FGF2.
28. The method of claim 17, wherein for (iv) the NPCs are first cultured in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising an FGF for seven days and then cultured for seven days in serum-free supplemented neurobasal media comprising an FGF and EGF.
29. A functional cortical organoid made by the method of claim 1.
30. The functional cortical organoid of claim 29, wherein the functional cortical organoid comprises cancerous tumors.
31. A method for screening for one or more agents or one or more compounds that affect the oscillatory activity of a functional cortical organoid, comprising: contacting the functional cortical organoid of claim 29 with one or more agents or one or more compounds, or a vehicle control; and measuring any differences in the oscillatory activity of the functional cortical organoids contacted with the one or more agents or the one or more compounds vs. the vehicle control, wherein the vehicle control does not affect the oscillatory activity of the functional cortical organoid, and wherein a measured difference in the oscillatory activity of the functional cortical organoid contacted with the one or more agents or the one or more compounds vs. the vehicle control indicates that the one or more agents or the one or more compounds affect the oscillatory activity of the functional cortical organoid.
32. A method for screening for one or more agents or one or more compounds that have a neuroprotective effect on a functional cortical organoid, comprising: contacting a functional cortical organoid of claim 29 with one or more agents or one or more compounds, or a vehicle control; exposing the functional cortical organoid to a neurodegenerative insult; measuring any differences in the structure and/or function of the functional cortical organoid contacted with the one or more agents or the one or more compounds vs. the vehicle control, wherein the vehicle control does not affect the structure and/or function of the functional cortical organoid, and wherein a preservation or a reduction in the rate of the loss of the structure and/or function of the cortical organoid contacted with the one or more agents or the one or more compounds vs. the vehicle control indicates that the one or more agents or one or more compounds have a neuroprotective effect.
33. A method for screening for one or more agents or one or more compounds that can be used to treat malignancies or cancerous growths, comprising: contacting the functional cortical organoid comprising cancerous tumors of claim 30 with one or more agents or one or more compounds; and determining whether the one or more agents or the one or more compounds kills the cancerous tumor cells in the cortical organoid. wherein if it is determined that the one or more agents or the one or more compounds kills the cancerous tumor cells in the functional cortical organoid, then the one or more agents or the one or more compounds can be used to treat malignancies or cancerous growths.
34. 34-36. (canceled).
37. The method of claim 31. wherein the method utilizes high throughput screening in a multi-well format where each well comprises an individual functional cortical organoid that is exposed to a different agent or to a different compound, or to the vehicle control, and wherein more than a hundred functional cortical organoids are screened per high throughput run.
38. 38-42. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
