<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G10L15/18,G10L15/26,G10L17/00,G10L17/06,G10L21/00,G10L25/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE; ROBERT J.
CHOWDHARY, PAWAN R.
NAKAMURA, TAIGA
LUDWIG, HEIKO H.
BARACALDO ANGEL, NATHALIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63166665
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bot-based data collection for detecting phone solicitations
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method comprising answering one or more incoming phone calls received at one or more pre-specified phone numbers utilizing a bot. The bot is configured to engage in a conversation with a caller initiating an incoming phone call utilizing a voice recording that impersonates a human being. The method further comprises recording each conversation the bot engages in, and classifying each recorded conversation as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the recorded conversation and one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: decreasing a likelihood of a misclassification from a machine learning model by: collecting training data; protecting the training data against an adversary attempting to poison the training data by: classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the portion and one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data; and filtering the training data to remove any portion of the training data that is classified as poison data; and training the machine learning model based on the filtered training data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting training data comprises: answering one or more incoming phone calls received at one or more pre-specified phone numbers utilizing a bot configured to engage in one or more conversations with one or more callers who initiate the one or more incoming phone calls; and recording the one or more conversations; wherein the training data comprises the one or more recorded conversations.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the bot is configured to utilize a voice recording that impersonates an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the bot is configured to dynamically converse with the one or more callers based on a conversation template including one or more learned conversation patterns corresponding to an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data comprises: classifying each recorded conversation as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the recorded conversation and the one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data.
6. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory processor-readable memory device storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations including: decreasing a likelihood of a misclassification from a machine learning model by: collecting training data; protecting the training data against an adversary attempting to poison the training data by: classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the portion and one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data; and filtering the training data to remove any portion of the training data that is classified as poison data; and training the machine learning model based on the filtered training data.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein collecting training data comprises: answering one or more incoming phone calls received at one or more pre-specified phone numbers utilizing a bot configured to engage in one or more conversations with one or more callers who initiate the one or more incoming phone calls; and recording the one or more conversations; wherein the training data comprises the one or more recorded conversations.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the bot is configured to utilize a voice recording that impersonates an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the bot is configured to dynamically converse with the one or more callers based on a conversation template including one or more learned conversation patterns corresponding to an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data comprises: classifying each recorded conversation as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the recorded conversation and the one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable hardware storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code being executable by a computer to implement a method comprising: decreasing a likelihood of a misclassification from a machine learning model by: collecting training data; protecting the training data against an adversary attempting to poison the training data by: classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the portion and one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data; and filtering the training data to remove any portion of the training data that is classified as poison data; and training the machine learning model based on the filtered training data.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein collecting training data comprises: answering one or more incoming phone calls received at one or more pre-specified phone numbers utilizing a bot configured to engage in one or more conversations with one or more callers who initiate the one or more incoming phone calls; and recording the one or more conversations; wherein the training data comprises the one or more recorded conversations.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the bot is configured to utilize a voice recording that impersonates an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the bot is configured to dynamically converse with the one or more callers based on a conversation template including one or more learned conversation patterns corresponding to an individual belonging to a type of demographic targeted by the one or more callers.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein classifying each portion of the training data as one of poison data or truthful training data comprises: classifying each recorded conversation as one of poison data or truthful training data based on content of the recorded conversation and the one or more learned detection models for detecting poisoned data.
</claims>
</document>
