<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9536,G06N3/04,G06N7/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EZOTECH INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICARD, Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67845529
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED SECURITY TESTING SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for network security testing of target computer networks using AI neural networks. A command and control server controls a number of geographically separated processors running a number of neural networks. A central data hive is accessible to all the processors. The processors are organizable into logical hemisphere groupings for specific tasks and/or projects. For security testing, hemisphere groupings are created for the project. Based on data for the target system on the data hive, attacks are formulated by a hemisphere grouping and these potential attacks are tested against known characteristics of the target network. Validated potential attacks and, in some cases, random attacks, are executed and data generated by the executed attacks are stored in the data hive for use in formulating and executing other further attacks. Potential attacks may involve mining social media networks for data on users of the target system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-29. (canceled)
30. A system for use in security testing at least one target computer system, the system comprising: a command and control server for controlling and managing said system; a central data storage for said system; a plurality of processors, at least one of said plurality of processors executing computer readable instructions that implements a plurality of neural networks, said plurality of neural networks being organizable into hemisphere groups, each hemisphere group being tasked with at least one specific task, each of said plurality of processors being enabled to send and receive data to and from said central data storage and each of said plurality of processors being enabled for data communication with at least one other processor and with said command and control server; wherein any data collected by processes executed by said plurality of processors regarding said at least one target computer system is stored in said central data storage.
31. The system according to claim 30, wherein at least one hemisphere group is assembled for querying social media networks for data regarding potential users of said at least one target computer system.
32. The system according to claim 30, wherein said system formulates potential attacks against said target computer system based on data stored in said central data storage.
33. The system according to claim 32, further comprising a plurality of modules for use in executing attacks against said target computer system, said plurality of modules being selected for execution by at least one processor based on predictions formed from said at least one neural network of which potential attacks are likely to succeed against said target computer system.
34. The system according to claim 32, wherein said potential attacks are validated to determine which of said potential attacks are likely to succeed against said target computer system, said potential attacks being validated based on data regarding said target computer system in said central data storage.
35. The system according to claim 34, wherein when said potential attacks are invalid, said system executes a probability function that determines if said system selects a random module for use in executing a random attack against said target computer system.
36. The system according to claim 32, wherein said potential attacks includes at least one of: login-based attacks to gain unauthorized access to said target computer system; attacks based on sending illegitimate emails masquerading as legitimate emails to users of said target computer system; attacks based on an analysis of at least one web application being executed by said target computer system; and attacks based on data regarding potential users of said target computer system, said data being gathered from an analysis of results from at least one automated online search.
37. A method for organizing computer resources for testing a security of a target network, the target network being a computer network, the method comprising: a) receiving data and characteristics for said target network and storing said data and characteristics in a central data storage data hive; b) determining a state of said target network based on said data and characteristics stored in said data hive; c) formulating a plurality of potential attacks using neural networks, said potential attacks being against said target network based on said state; d) for each one of said plurality of potential attacks, determining if a module exists for said one of said plurality of potential attacks based on said state, said one of said plurality of potential attacks being a module-validated potential attack if said module exists for said one of said plurality of potential attacks, and said one of said plurality of potential attacks being invalid if no said module exists for said one of said plurality of potential attacks; e) when at least one of said plurality of potential attacks is a module-validated potential attack, determining if conditions for said module-validated potential attack are present based on said data and characteristics in said data hive, said module-validated potential attack being an executable attack if said conditions are present and said module-validated potential attack being invalid if said conditions are absent; f) provisioning resources for each executable attack; and g) executing said each executable attack, data being generated by each said executable attack being saved in said data hive.
38. The method according to claim 37, further including a step of gathering additional data on said target network prior to step b).
39. The method according to claim 37, wherein said step of gathering additional data comprises launching one or more probes against said target network to determine said additional data, results of said one or more probes being said in said data hive as additions to said data and characteristics for said target network.
40. The method according to claim 37, wherein step e) comprises determining if specific resources are available on said target network.
41. The method according to claim 40, wherein said specific resources comprise at least one of: ports, protocols, and services.
42. The method according to claim 40, wherein said specific resources comprises at least one of: passwords, usernames, and login names.
43. The method according to claim 37, wherein one of said plurality of potential attacks is based on determining login names and passwords for at least one user of said target network.
44. The method according to claim 43, wherein said one of said plurality of potential attacks comprises: determining names of potential users of said target network; determining a login name convention for said target network to find login names for said potential users; using said names of potential users to query at least one social network website for accounts of people with said names; extracting relevant data from said accounts; using said relevant data to formulate potential passwords; and testing said potential passwords against said login names.
45. The method according to claim 37, wherein said state is passed to a plurality of processors, at least one of said plurality of processors executing computer readable instructions for implementing at least one neural network.
46. The method according to claim 37, wherein steps a)-g) are iterated until all potential attacks in said plurality of potential attacks have been exhausted.
47. The method according to claim 37, further comprising, when each of said plurality of potential attacks is invalid, executing a probability function that determines if a random module is selected for use in executing a random executable attack against said target computer system.
48. The method according to claim 37, further comprising automatically at least one of: a penetration test report and remediation plan; an application test report and remediation plan; and a social engineering test report and remediation plan.
49. The method according to claim 37, further comprising using at least one of: natural language processing; and image recognition methods; to extract information regarding said target system or users of said target system.
</claims>
</document>
