<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/16,H01Q19/22,H01Q19/28,H01Q21/06,H04B3/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66243280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANTENNA SYSTEM WITH PLANAR ANTENNA AND DIRECTORS AND METHODS FOR USE THEREWITH
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include a planar antenna configured to transmit first signals as a first guided electromagnetic wave that is bound to a surface of a transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the planar antenna includes an array of patch antennas that generates first near field signals in response to the first signals and a plurality of directors configured to guide a portion of the first near field signals from the array of patch antennas to the surface of the transmission medium, and wherein the portion of the first near field signals combines to induce the first guided electromagnetic wave that is bound to the surface of the transmission medium.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A planar antenna comprising: an array of patch antennas configured to generate first near field signals in response to signals; and a plurality of directors configured to guide a portion of the first near field signals from the array of patch antennas to a surface of a transmission medium, and wherein the portion of the first near field signals combines to induce a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by the surface of the transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
2. The planar antenna of claim 1, wherein the plurality of directors includes a plurality of conductive elements that are each aligned parallel to the array of patch antennas.
3. The planar antenna of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of directors is aligned perpendicular to the transmission medium.
4. The planar antenna of claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of directors is spaced at a regular interval of distance along the transmission medium.
5. The planar antenna of claim 3, wherein at least two of the plurality of directors are of a common size.
6. The planar antenna of claim 3, wherein at least two of the plurality of directors are of different sizes.
7. The planar antenna of claim 1, wherein the plurality of directors each include a grommet that supports a corresponding one of a plurality of conductive elements to the transmission medium.
8. The planar antenna of claim 1, wherein the planar antenna includes an array of additional antennas that generates second near field signals in response to the signals, and wherein a portion of the second near field signals further combines with the portion of the first near field signals to induce the first guided electromagnetic wave that is bound to the surface of the transmission medium.
9. The planar antenna of claim 8, wherein the array of additional antennas comprises an array of monopole antennas.
10. The planar antenna of claim 9, further comprising: a dielectric circuit board having a planar surface that supports the array of patch antennas; wherein the array of monopole antennas comprises a plurality of conductive vias in the dielectric circuit board.
11. The planar antenna of claim 8, wherein the plurality of directors is further configured to guide the portion of the second near field signals from the array of additional antennas to the surface of the transmission medium.
12. The planar antenna of claim 1, wherein the planar antenna is further configured to receive a second guided electromagnetic wave that is bound to the surface of the transmission medium, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring the electrical return path.
13. The planar antenna of claim 1, further comprising: a reflector; wherein each of the plurality of directors is positioned along the transmission medium on a first side of the planar antenna and wherein the reflector is positioned along the transmission medium on a second side of the planar antenna.
14. The planar antenna of claim 13, wherein the plurality of directors is arranged with the planar antenna in a Yagi configuration.
15. A method comprising: transmitting, via an array of patch antennas of a planar antenna, first near field signals; transmitting, via an array of additional antennas of the planar antenna, second near field signals; guiding, via a plurality of directors, a portion of the first near field signals from the array of patch antennas to a surface of a transmission medium; and guiding, via the plurality of directors, a portion of the second near field signals from the array of additional antennas to the surface of the transmission medium; wherein the portion of the first near field signals combines with the portion of the second near field signals to induce a first guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by the surface of the transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving, via the planar antenna, a second guided electromagnetic wave that is bound to the surface of the transmission medium, wherein the second guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring the electrical return path.
17. An antenna system comprising: an array of patch antennas configured to generate first near field signals; and an array of monopole antennas configured to generate second near field signals; and a plurality of directors configured to: guide a portion of the first near field signals from the array of patch antennas to a surface of a transmission medium; and guide a portion of the second near field signals from the array of monopole antennas to the surface of the transmission medium; wherein a portion of the first near field signals combines with a portion of the second near field signals to induce a guided electromagnetic wave that is guided by the surface of the transmission medium; and wherein the guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the surface of the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
18. The antenna system of claim 17, further comprising: a dielectric circuit board having a planar surface that supports the array of patch antennas and the array of monopole antennas; wherein the array of monopole antennas comprises a plurality of conductive vias in the dielectric circuit board.
19. The antenna system of claim 18, further comprising a reflector; wherein each of the plurality of directors is positioned along the transmission medium a corresponding distance from a first side of the dielectric circuit board and wherein the reflector is positioned along the transmission medium on a second side of the dielectric circuit board.
20. The antenna system of claim 17, wherein each of the plurality of directors includes a plurality of conductive elements that is aligned parallel to the array of patch antennas and wherein each of the plurality of conductive elements is spaced at a regular interval of distance along the transmission medium.
</claims>
</document>
