<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SG GAMING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KELLY, BRYAN, M.
EAGER, TERRIN
LYONS, MARTIN S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SYNTHETIC IMAGE TRAINING OF A NEURAL NETWORK ASSOCIATED WITH A CASINO TABLE GAME MONITORING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a system and method for training a neural network associated with a casino table game monitoring system. Synthetic images of objects extracted from a virtual table game environment are used to create a ground truth set, which is then used to train and test a neural network. When the neural network's classification of the extracted images is deemed accurate enough, the neural network may then be deployed in a casino to track the use of corresponding physical objects in real casino table game play as part of the casino table game monitoring system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a neural network associated with monitoring system for a casino table game, the method comprising the operations of: providing a three-dimensional rendering/animation programmable software package; rendering a three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game via the rendering/animation package, the simulation including at least one virtual camera; providing vision software coupled to the at least one virtual camera; modeling at least one physical object for use with the casino table game, wherein the at least one physical object is associated with an identifier; recursively displaying a first image of the modeled at least one physical object as part of the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game and detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera, extracting a corresponding first partial image from the detected first image, and storing the first partial image and the identifier as one of a plurality of elements in a set of ground truth data; training the neural network by recursively: displaying a second image of the modeled at least one physical object as part of the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game; detecting the second image via the at least one virtual camera and extracting a second partial image from the detected image; comparing, in each layer of a plurality of layers of the neural network, the second partial image to each of the first partial images in plurality of elements in the set of ground truth data to achieve a classification for the second partial image; comparing the classification with the identifier; and adjusting one or more parameters of the neural network according to the comparison.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one physical object comprises at least one of a casino chip, a playing card, or a human face.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural network comprises a you-only-look-once neural network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera comprises performing image processing of the view to determine the location of the image in the view.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera comprises leveraging ground truth data about the location of the image in the view.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game comprises combining live video of a physical gaming table with one or more virtual objects.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the comparing the classification with the identifier and adjusting the one or more parameters of the neural network according to the comparison comprises the use of reinforcement learning techniques.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one virtual camera mimics at least one specification of a physical camera used at a physical gaming table.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one specification comprises at least one of the focal length, the CCD sensor size in millimeters, the HDR capability and the light sensitivity.
10. A system for training a neural network associated with monitoring system for a casino table game, the system configured to perform the operations of: providing a three-dimensional rendering/animation programmable software package; rendering a three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game via the rendering/animation package, the simulation including at least one virtual camera; providing vision software coupled to the at least one virtual camera; modeling at least one physical object for use with the casino table game, wherein the at least one physical object is associated with an identifier; recursively displaying a first image of the modeled at least one physical object as part of the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game and detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera, extracting a corresponding first partial image from the detected first image, and storing the first partial image and the identifier as one of a plurality of elements in a set of ground truth data; training the neural network by recursively: displaying a second image of the modeled at least one physical object as part of the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game; detecting the second image via the at least one virtual camera and extracting a second partial image from the detected image; comparing, in each layer of a plurality of layers of the neural network, the second partial image to each of the first partial images in plurality of elements in the set of ground truth data to achieve a classification for the second partial image; comparing the classification with the identifier; and adjusting one or more parameters of the neural network according to the comparison.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one physical object comprises at least one of a casino chip, a playing card, or a human face.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the neural network comprises a you-only-look-once neural network.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera comprises performing image processing of the view to determine the location of the image in the view.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the detecting the first image in a view provided by at least one virtual camera comprises leveraging ground truth data about the location of the image in the view.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the rendering of the three-dimensional simulation of the casino table game comprises combining live video of a physical gaming table with one or more virtual objects.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the comparing the classification with the identifier and adjusting the one or more parameters of the neural network according to the comparison comprises the use of reinforcement learning techniques.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one virtual camera mimics at least one specification of a physical camera used at a physical gaming table.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one specification comprises at least one of the focal length, the CCD sensor size in millimeters, the HDR capability and the light sensitivity.
</claims>
</document>
