<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, HYUN SEOK
HAN, SEUNG HOON
MOON, BO-SEOK
PARK, SAHNG-GYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63676577
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR RECOGNIZING OBJECT INCLUDED IN INPUT IMAGE
</title>

<abstract>
A device and method for recognizing an object included in an input image are provided, the device for recognizing the object included in the input image includes a memory in which at least one program is stored; a camera configured to capture an environment around the device; and at least one processor configured to execute the at least one program to recognize an object included in an input image, wherein the at least one program includes instructions to: obtain the input image by controlling the camera; obtain information about the environment around the device that obtains the input image; determine, based on the information about the environment, a standard for using a plurality of feature value sets in a combined way, the plurality of feature value sets being used to recognize the object in the input image; and recognize the object included in the input image, by using the plurality of feature value sets based on the determined standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for recognizing an object included in an input image, the device comprising: a memory in which at least one program is stored; a camera configured to capture an environment around the device; and at least one processor configured to execute the at least one program to recognize the object included in the input image, wherein the at least one program comprises instructions to: obtain the input image by controlling the camera; obtain information about the environment around the device that obtains the input image; determine, based on the information about the environment, a standard for using a plurality of feature value sets in a combined way, the plurality of feature value sets being used to recognize the object in the input image; and recognize the object included in the input image, by using the plurality of feature value sets based on the determined standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of feature value sets comprise a first feature value set and a second feature value set, and the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, the standard for using the first feature value set and the second feature value set.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, use frequencies of the first feature value set and the second feature value set to be different from each other.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, a weight of each of the first feature value set and the second feature value set, and the recognizing of the object included in the input image comprises: respectively applying the weight of the first feature value set and the weight of the second feature value set to a first object recognition result obtained by using the first feature value set and a second object recognition result obtained by using the second feature value set; and recognizing the object included in the input image, based on an object recognition result determined based on the first object recognition result to which the weight of the first feature value set is applied and the second object recognition result to which the weight of the second feature value set is applied.
5. The device of claim 2, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises: recognizing, by using the first feature value set and the second feature value set, an object included in at least one previous input image obtained during a certain time before the input image is obtained; comparing an object recognition rate based on the first feature value set with an object recognition rate based on the second feature value set; and determining, based on a result of the comparison, the standard for using each of the first feature value set and the second feature value set.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the information about the environment comprises at least one of information about a time when the input image is captured, information about the weather when the input image is captured, and information about a place where the input image is captured.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the recognizing of the object included in the input image comprises: comparing the plurality of feature value sets with a feature value extracted from the input image, based on the determined standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way; and recognizing an object having a highest degree of similarity as the object, based on a result of the comparison.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the feature value sets comprise at least one of information about an outline of the object, information about a brightness of the object, and information about a color of the object.
9. A method, performed by a device, of recognizing an object included in an input image, the method comprising: obtaining an input image by capturing an environment around the device; obtaining information about the environment around the device that obtains the input image; determining, based on the information about the environment, a standard for using a plurality of feature value sets in a combined way, the plurality of feature value sets being used to recognize the object in the input image; and recognizing at least one object from the input image, by using the plurality of feature value sets based on the determined standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of feature value sets comprise a first feature value set and a second feature value set, and the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, the standard for using the first feature value set and the second feature value set.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, use frequencies of the first feature value set and the second feature value set to be different from each other
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises determining, based on the information about the environment, a weight of each of the first feature value set and the second feature value set, and the recognizing of the object included in the input image comprises: respectively applying the weight of the first feature value set and the weight of the second feature value set to a first object recognition result obtained by using the first feature value set and a second object recognition result obtained by using the second feature value set; and recognizing the object included in the input image, based on an object recognition result determined based on the first object recognition result to which the weight of the first feature value set is applied and the second object recognition result to which the weight of the second feature value set is applied.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining of the standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way comprises: recognizing, by using the first feature value set and the second feature value set, an object included in at least one previous input image obtained during a certain time before the input image is obtained; comparing an object recognition rate based on the first feature value set with an object recognition rate based on the second feature value set; and determining, based on a result of the comparison, the standard for using each of the first feature value set and the second feature value set.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the information about the environment comprises at least one of information about a time when the input image is captured, information about the weather when the input image is captured, and information about a place where the input image is captured.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the recognizing of the object included in the input image comprises: comparing the plurality of feature value sets with a feature value extracted from the input image, based on the determined standard for using the plurality of feature value sets in the combined way; and recognizing an object having a highest degree of similarity as the object, based on a result of the comparison.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the feature value sets comprise at least one of information about an outline of the object, information about a brightness of the object, and information about a color of the object.
17. A computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon a program for executing the method of claim 9 on a computer.
</claims>
</document>
