<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F16/22,G06F16/25,G06F16/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INNOPLEXUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DHARMA, DILEEP
PATIL, PRASHANT
BOLLA, ABHILASH
ANURAG, ROHIT
CHAVHAN, HITESH
MEHTA, JAIMIN
ZILPELWAR, ANKUR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63143537
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REGULARIZING DATA BETWEEN DATA SOURCE AND DATA DESTINATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method of regularizing data between a data source and a data destination, wherein the given data category includes with specific data fields. The system includes a data processing arrangement that includes a data fetching module operable to fetch data from the data source. Furthermore, the data processing arrangement includes a data transformation module that is operable to receive pre-defined data formats for a specific data category, compare data formats of the fetched data with pre-defined data formats, determine a deviation therein, and thereafter transform the data format. Additionally, the data processing arrangement includes a data validation module operable that is to receive the transformed data or the fetched data, confirm if data formats of a received data are same as corresponding pre-defined data formats, identify from the received data regularized data, and transmit the regularized data to the data destination implemented as database arrangement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for regularizing data between a data source and a data destination, the data corresponding to a given data category of a plurality of data categories, wherein the given data category includes specific data fields, wherein the system comprises: a data processing arrangement comprising: a data fetching module operable to fetch data from the data source, wherein the fetched data includes one or more data fields having values in corresponding data formats; a data transformation module operable to receive the fetched data from the data fetching module, wherein the data transformation module is operable to: receive pre-defined data formats for the values of data fields for a specific data category; compare data formats of values of data fields of the fetched data with received pre-defined data formats for the values; determine, based on the comparison, a deviation between a data format of at least one value and a corresponding pre-defined data format for the at least one value; and transform the data format of the at least one value to the corresponding pre-defined data format, if the deviation is determined; a data validation module operable to: receive from the data transformation module, the pre-defined data formats, and the transformed data if the deviation is determined, or the fetched data if the deviation is not determined; confirm if data formats of values of all data fields of a received data are same as corresponding pre-defined data formats; identify from the received data, based on the confirmation, regularized data having data formats of values of all data fields same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats; transmit the regularized data to the data destination; and a database arrangement for implementing the data destination, the database arrangement being communicatively coupled to the data processing arrangement, wherein the database arrangement is operable to store the received regularized data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data validation module is further operable to generate an error log for the received data when data formats of values of one or more data fields are not same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the system further comprises a data regularization module, wherein the data regularization module is operable to: receive data from the data validation module having data formats of values of one or more data fields that are not same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats; determine a variance in data formats of values of the one or more data fields of the received data and the corresponding pre-defined data formats; identify a resolution for the determined variance of the received data, wherein the resolution comprises changing the data formats of values of the one or more data fields to the corresponding pre-defined data formats; and transmit the resolved data to the data transformation module, wherein the data transformation module is further operable to process the resolved data along with the fetched data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the data source is implemented using at least one database.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the data processing arrangement is implemented within a server arrangement.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of: the data fetching module, the data transformation module, the data validation module, and the data regularization module, is implemented using a machine-learning algorithm.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the data fetching module is implemented as a web-crawler.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the data transformation module is further operable to identify data fields for the values of the fetched data based on at least one attribute of the values, wherein the at least one attribute comprises: a number of characters, a type, a structure and presence of keywords.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the data validation module is further operable to generate a notification comprising data formats of values of the one or more data fields not being same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a database driver module, wherein the database driver module allows retrieval of the regularized data stored in the database arrangement.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the system simultaneously regularizes, in operation, data corresponding to more than one data category of the plurality of data categories.
12. A method for regularizing data between a data source and a data destination, the data corresponding to a given data category of a plurality of data categories, wherein the given data category includes with specific data fields, wherein the method comprises: fetching from the data source, a data including one or more data fields having values in corresponding data formats; receiving pre-defined data formats for the values of data fields for a specific data category; comparing data formats of values of data fields of the fetched data with pre-defined data formats for the values; determining, based on the comparison, a deviation between a data format of at least one value and a corresponding pre-defined data format for the at least one value; transforming the data format of the at least one value to the corresponding pre-defined data format, if the deviation is determined; confirming if data formats of values of all data fields of a received data are same as corresponding pre-defined data formats; identifying from the received data, based on the confirmation, regularized data having data formats of values of all data fields same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats; and storing the regularized data at the data destination.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises generating an error log for the received data when data formats of values of one or more data fields are not same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: determining a variance in data formats of values of the one or more data fields of the received data and the corresponding pre-defined data formats; identifying a resolution for the determined variance of the received data, wherein the resolution comprises changing the data formats of values of the one or more data fields to the corresponding pre-defined data formats; and processing the resolved data along with the fetched data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the method employs at least one machine-learning algorithm.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the method is implemented as a web-crawler.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises identifying data fields for the values of the fetched data based on at least one attribute of the values, wherein the at least one attribute comprises: a number of characters, a type, a structure and presence of keywords.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises generating a notification comprising data formats of values of the one or more data fields not being same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats.
19. A computer readable medium containing program instructions for execution on a computer system, which when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform method steps for regularizing data between a data source and a data destination, the data corresponding to a given data category of a plurality of data categories, wherein the given data category includes with specific data fields, the method comprising the steps of: fetching from the data source, a data including one or more data fields having values in corresponding data formats; receiving pre-defined data formats for the values of data fields for a specific data category; comparing data formats of values of data fields of the fetched data with pre-defined data formats for the values; determining, based on the comparison, a deviation between a data format of at least one value and a corresponding pre-defined data format for the at least one value; transforming the data format of the at least one value to the corresponding pre-defined data format, if the deviation is determined; confirming if data formats of values of all data fields of a received data are same as corresponding pre-defined data formats; identifying from the received data, based on the confirmation, regularized data having data formats of values of all data fields same as the corresponding pre-defined data formats; and storing the regularized data at the data destination.
</claims>
</document>
