<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04B7/10,H04L5/00,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TONG, WEN
GE, YIQUN
SHI, WUXIAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
TONG, WEN
GE, YIQUN
SHI, WUXIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR WIRELESS COMMUNICATION USING POLARIZATION-BASED SIGNAL SPACE MAPPING
</title>

<abstract>
A polarization stream architecture is described. A transmitter may implement a reverse polarization stream to shape a first source signal in a first signal space to a first target signal in a second signal space. The reverse polarization stream is implemented as a cascade of reverse polarization steps. Each reverse polarization step includes a shuffle function, a split function, a scaling function and an offset function. Machine-learning techniques may be used to implement the scaling function and the offset function. A receiver may implement a polarization stream to recover the source signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for wireless communications the apparatus comprising: a transmitter configured to implement a reverse polarization stream to shape a first source signal in a first signal space to a first target signal in a second signal space, wherein the reverse polarization stream is implemented as a cascade of one or more reverse polarization steps, each reverse polarization step including: a shuffle function that shuffles an input set of information and outputs a shuffled set of information; a split function that splits the shuffled set of information and outputs a first split information group and a second split information group; a scaling function applied to the second split information group to generate a scaling vector; and an offset function applied to the second split information group to generate an offset vector; and the reverse polarization step outputting a first output information group and a second output information group that together form an output set of information, the first output information group being: the first split information group element-wise multiplied with the scaling vector, and element-wise added with the offset vector; and the second output information group being the second split information group; and the transmitter is further configured to transmit the first target signal to at least one recipient device.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the reverse polarization stream is invertible to a polarization stream which recovers the first source signal from the first target signal, the shuffle function, split function, scaling function and offset function being the same in the polarization stream.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein all the reverse polarization steps in the reverse polarization stream share at least: a common shuffle function, a common split function, a common scaling function, or a common offset function.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the scaling function and the offset function are implemented using at least one neural network.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the scaling function is implemented using a first neural network, and the offset function is implemented using a second neural network.
6. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the reverse polarization stream is invertible to a polarization stream which recovers the first source signal from the first target signal, wherein the at least one neural network is trained on the polarization stream.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the apparatus is a base station, and the base station is configured to transmit trained weights of the at least one neural network to at least one electronic device, to enable the at least one electronic device to implement the polarization stream.
8. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the apparatus is an electronic device, and the electronic device is configured to receive, from a base station, trained weights of the at least one neural network, to enable the electronic device to implement the reverse polarization stream.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the transmitter is configured to implement a first reverse polarization stream to shape the first source signal to the first target signal, and a second reverse polarization stream to shape a second source signal in the first signal space to a second target signal in the second signal space, wherein the first target signal is for transmission to a first recipient device and the second target signal is for transmission to a second recipient device.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the first and the second source signal are overlapping in the first signal space, and wherein the first and the second target signals are non-overlapping in the second signal space, wherein the first target signal and the second target signal are transmitted as a multiplexed signal.
11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first source signal is shaped to the first target signal to achieve dimensional gain.
12. An apparatus for wireless communications, the apparatus comprising: a receiver configured to receive a first received signal from a transmitting device; the receiver being further configured to implement a polarization stream to recover a first source signal in a first signal space from the first received signal in a second signal space, wherein the polarization stream is implemented as a cascade of one or more polarization steps, each polarization step including: a shuffle function that shuffles an input set of information and outputs a shuffled set of information; a split function that splits the shuffled set of information and outputs a first split information group and a second split information group; a scaling function applied to the second split information group to generate a scaling vector; and an offset function applied to the second split information group to generate an offset vector; and the polarization step outputting a first output information group and a second output information group that together form an output set of information, the first output information group being: the offset vector element-wise subtracted from the first split information group, and element-wise divided by the scale vector; and the second output information group being the second split information group.
13. The apparatus of claim 12 wherein the scaling function and the offset function are implemented using at least one neural network.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the scaling function is implemented using a first neural network, and the offset function is implemented using a second neural network.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the at least one neural network is trained on the polarization stream, the polarization stream being invertible to a reverse polarization stream which shapes the first source signal to a first target signal for transmission.
16. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein the apparatus is a base station, and the base station is configured to transmit trained weights of the at least one neural network to at least one electronic device, to enable the at least one electronic device to implement the reverse polarization stream.
17. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein the apparatus is an electronic device, and wherein the at least one neural network is implemented using trained weights received from a base station.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the apparatus is a base station in communication with a first electronic device and a second electronic device, wherein the receiver is configured to implement a first polarization stream for recovering the first source signal, from the first electronic device, from a received multiplexed signal, and is further configured to implement a second polarization stream for recovering a second source signal, from the second electronic device, from the received multiplexed signal.
19. The electronic device of claim 12 wherein the receiver is further configured to implement a reverse polarization stream that is an inverse of the polarization stream, and is further configured to iteratively use the polarization stream and the reverse polarization stream to recover the first source signal.
20. An apparatus for evaluating candidate signals, the apparatus comprising: a processor configured to implement a neural network, the neural network being trained to perform binary classification between two candidate signal distributions in a signal space and to output a cross entropy value between the two candidate signal distributions; and wherein the two candidate signal distributions are determined to be satisfactory when the cross entropy value is at a maximum.
21. The apparatus of claim 20 wherein the two candidate signal distributions represent probabilities of corresponding candidate signals that would be received at two different electronic devices.
</claims>
</document>
