<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/00,H04M3/51,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, AMRAM AMIR
EILAN, DROR
GONEN, RAANAN
GRUSHKO, ALEXANDER
HAIMOV, NAOR
PORTMAN, LEON
STEIN, LIRON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68055756
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for automatically validating agent implementation of training material
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for testing an agent by a validation bot may include sending training material to an agent; automatically initiating, by the validation bot, a session with an agent by providing a phrase to the agent via a client media interface; obtaining a reply from the agent; mapping the reply of the agent to an agent intent; providing a response to the agent based on the agent intent and according to a predetermined session flow, wherein the predetermined session flow is based on the training material; repeating obtaining responses, mapping the responses and providing responses until a termination criterion is met; calculating a score of the agent according to scoring rules; and providing the score of the agent to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for testing an agent by a validation bot executed by a processor, the method comprising: a. sending training material, by the validation bot, to an agent; b. at the same time that agents other than the agent are connected to customers, automatically initiating, by the validation bot, a session with an agent by providing a natural language phrase to the agent via a client media interface, wherein the client media interface is the same interface the agent uses to communicate with a customer, wherein, during the session, the validation bot pretends to be a real customer with which the agent is supposed to interact; c. obtaining, by the validation bot, a reply from the agent; d. interpreting the reply by a natural language engine which includes a machine learning module trained to classify agent replies into agent intents and mapping, by the validation bot, the reply of the agent to an agent intent, wherein the agent intent is a goal of the agent expressed by the agent during the session; e. providing, by the validation bot, a response to the agent based on the mapped agent intent; f. calculating, by the validation bot, a score of the agent according to scoring rules; and g. providing, by the validation bot, the score of the agent to a user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing of the response is according to the mapped agent intent and on a predetermined session flow, wherein the predetermined session flow is based on the training material, wherein the response is translated into a media channel of the session, and wherein the predetermined session flow comprises possible agent intents, possible responses to the agent, scoring rules, response rules, and state variables, wherein a state of the validation bot is updated based on the agent intent, and wherein providing the response to the agent is performed based on the state of the validation bot and on the bot response rules.
3. The method of claim 1, comprising providing a confidence score for the intent.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising repeating operations a-g for a plurality of agents.
5. The method of claim 4, comprising: determining timing of initiating sessions with agents that need to be validated based on a number of the agents that need to be validated and a time available for validating the agents, wherein timing is determined so that the sessions are evenly distributed along the time available for validating the agents.
6. The method of claim 5, comprising scheduling the sessions for times in which there are more agents than an expected number required for answering human clients.
7. The method of claim 5, comprising scheduling the sessions for times in which a difference between an expected number of agents required for answering human clients and an actual number of agents is above a predetermined threshold.
8. The method of claim 5, comprising: determining that the agent has passed a verification test if the score of the agent exceeds a predetermined threshold and determining that the agent has failed the verification test if the score does not exceed the threshold; and providing a pass/fail indication to the user.
9. The method of claim 8, comprising providing a recommendation to refine training material if a percentage of agents that have passed the verification test is below a predetermined threshold.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising if the score is below a predetermined threshold performing one of: sending training material to the agent, providing pop-ups with correct answers to the agent in real-time, and informing the agent of the low score.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1 wherein the client media interface is a chat box, a short message service (SMS), voice, or any combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 1 comprising repeating, by the validation bot, operations c-e until a termination criterion is met.
13. A computer implemented method for simulating a human client for testing agents, the method comprising: a. initiating, by an automatic validation process executed by a processor a session with the agent by providing a natural language phrase to the agent via a client media interface, wherein the client media interface is the same interface the agent uses to communicate with a customer, the initiating occurring at the same time that agents other than the agent are connected to customers, wherein, during the session, the processor pretends to be a real customer with which the agent is supposed to interact; b. receiving an agent reply from the agent, wherein the agent intent is a goal of the agent expressed by the agent during the interaction; c. correlating the agent reply with an agent intent using a natural language understanding engine which includes a machine learning module trained to classify agent replies into agent intents; d. updating a state of the validation process based on the agent intent; e. providing a response to the agent based on the agent intent; f. calculating a rating of the agent according to scoring rules; and g. providing the rating of the agent to a user.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising providing a response to the agent based on the agent intent and on the state of the validation process, wherein the response is translated into a media channel of the interaction.
15. A system for testing an agent by a validation bot, the system comprising: a memory; a processor configured to: a. send training material to an agent; b. automatically initiate a session in which the validation bot pretends to be a real human customer interacting with an agent, at the same time that agents other than the agent are connected to customers, by providing a phrase to the agent via a client media interface, wherein the client media interface is the same interface the agent uses to communicate with a customer; c. obtain a reply from the agent; d. interpret the reply by a natural language engine which includes a machine learning module trained to classify agent replies into agent intents and map the reply of the agent to an agent intent, wherein the agent intent is a goal of the agent expressed by the agent during the session; e. provide a response to the agent based on the agent intent; f. calculate a score of the agent according to scoring rules; and g. provide the score of the agent to a user.
16. The system of claim 15, comprising providing the response based on the agent intent and according to a predetermined session flow, wherein the predetermined session flow is based on the training material, wherein the response is translated into a media channel of the session, and wherein the predetermined session flow comprises possible agent intents, possible responses to the agent, scoring rules, response rules, and state variables, wherein a state of the validation bot is updated based on the agent intent, and wherein providing the response to the agent is performed based on the state of the validation bot and on the bot response rules.
17. The system of claim 15, comprising repeating operations a-g for a plurality of agents.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to determine timing of initiating sessions with agents that need to be validated based on a number of the agents that need to be validated and a time available for validating the agents, wherein timing is determined so that the sessions are evenly distributed along the time available for validating the agents.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to schedule the sessions for times in which there are more agents than an expected number required for answering human clients.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to schedule the sessions for times in which a difference between an expected number of agent required for answering human clients and an actual number of agents is above a predetermined threshold.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to: determine that the agent has passed a verification test if the score of the agent exceeds a predetermined threshold and determine that the agent has failed the verification test if the score does not exceed the threshold; and provide a pass/fail indication to the user.
22. The system of claim 21, comprising providing a recommendation to refine training material if a percentage of agents that have passed the verification test is below a predetermined threshold.
23. The system of claim 15, comprising if the score is below a predetermined threshold performing one of: sending training material to the agent, providing pop-ups with correct answers to the agent in real-time, and informing the agent of the low score.
</claims>
</document>
