<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
HORI SHINJIRO
KUNIEDA, HIROYASU
YAMADA, TAKAYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS, METHOD AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment of the present disclosure, an apparatus that generates album data including a plurality of pages has a page generation unit configured to generate common pages used in common in a plurality of pieces of album data and individual pages corresponding to a main object and a determination unit configured to determine, after sorting the common pages relating to generation-target album data based on an image capturing time representing the common pages, positions of the individual pages relating to the generation-target album data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus that generates album data including a plurality of pages, the apparatus comprising: a page generation unit configured to generate common pages used in common in a plurality of pieces of album data and individual pages corresponding to a main object; and a determination unit configured to determine, after sorting the common pages relating to generation-target album data based on an image capturing time representing the common pages, positions of the individual pages relating to the generation-target album data.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the positions of the individual pages are the same in all pieces of album data.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: an acquisition unit configured to acquire candidate images used in the album data; an analysis unit configured to analyze the candidate images; a specification unit configured to specify the main object of each piece of album data; and a setting unit configured to set a reference of page creation of each piece of album data, wherein the page generation unit generates the common pages and the individual pages by arranging the candidate images on pages based on results of analysis by the analysis unit and the reference.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the image capturing time representing the common pages is an average image capturing time of images arranged on the common pages.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determination unit determines the positions of the individual pages based on a difference in the image capturing time between the sorted common pages.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the determination unit determines the positions of the individual pages so that the individual pages are inserted one by one in accordance with order of magnitude of the difference in the image capturing time between the common pages.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determination unit determines the positions of the individual pages so that the individual pages are inserted before or after the common pages.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determination unit has an adjustment unit configured to adjust a total number of common pages and individual pages so as to be the same as a predetermined number of pages.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the determination unit determines the positions of the individual pages in accordance with an image distribution of images in which the main object is captured, a number of pieces of album data to be generated, or specification of a user.
10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the page is a spread page.
11. An apparatus that generates album data including a plurality of pages, the apparatus comprising: a page generation unit configured to generate common pages used in common in a plurality of pieces of album data and individual pages corresponding to a main object; and a data generation unit configured to generate album data in which the common pages and the individual pages are arranged, wherein in album data generated by the data generation unit, positions of the individual pages are the same in all pieces of album data.
12. A method of generating album data including a plurality of pages, the method comprising the steps of: generating common pages used in common in a plurality of pieces of album data and individual pages corresponding to a main object; and determining, after sorting the common pages relating to generation-target album data based on an image capturing time representing the common pages, positions of the individual pages relating to the generation-target album data.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the positions of the individual pages are the same in all pieces of album data.
14. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: acquiring candidate images used in the album data; analyzing the candidate images; specifying the main object of each piece of album data; and setting a reference of page creation of each piece of album data, wherein the generating is generating the common pages and the individual pages by arranging the candidate images on pages based on results of analysis of the candidate images and the reference of page creation.
15. The method according to claim 12, wherein the image capturing time representing the common pages is an average image capturing time of images arranged on the common pages.
16. The method according to claim 12, wherein the determining is determining the positions of the individual pages based on a difference in the image capturing time between the sorted common pages.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the determining is determining the positions of the individual pages so that the individual pages are inserted one by one in accordance with order of magnitude of the difference in the image capturing time between the common pages.
18. The method according to claim 12, wherein the determining is determining the positions of the individual pages so that the individual pages are inserted before or after the common pages.
19. The method according to claim 12, wherein the determining includes adjusting a total number of common pages and individual pages so as to be the same as a predetermined number of pages.
20. The method according to claim 12, wherein the determining is determining the positions of the individual pages in accordance with an image distribution of images in which the main object is captured, a number of pieces of album data to be generated, or specification of a user.
21. The method according to claim 12, wherein the page is a spread page.
22. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing a program for causing a computer to perform a method of generating album data including a plurality of pages, the method comprising the steps of: generating common pages used in common in a plurality of pieces of album data and individual pages corresponding to a main object; and determining, after sorting the common pages relating to generation-target album data based on an image capturing time representing the common pages, positions of the individual pages relating to the generation-target album data.
</claims>
</document>
