<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J50/20,H02J50/60,H02J50/90,H04B5/00,H04B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
UNSHELM, THOMAS
LOPEZ, MIGUEL
KLANG, GORAN N.
TULLBERG, HUGO
RAHMAN, IMADUR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62916637
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technique for Performing Power Level Control of Beams Transmitted by a Wireless Transmission Device
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for performing power level control of one or more beams transmitted by a wireless transmission device to a wireless reception device is disclosed. A method implementation of the technique is performed by the wireless transmission device and comprises transmitting (S202) each of the one or more beams at a default power level of the respective beam, detecting (S204) an obstacle entering the one or more beams based on a change in an electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams, the obstacle, once entered, at least partially blocking the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device, and decreasing (S206), for each of the one or more beams, an output power of the respective beam from the default power level of the respective beam to a predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-44. (canceled)
45. A method for performing power level control of one or more beams transmitted by a wireless transmission device to a wireless reception device, the method comprising the wireless transmission device: transmitting each of the one or more beams at a default power level of the respective beam; detecting an obstacle entering the one or more beams based on a change in an electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams, the obstacle, once entered, at least partially blocking the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device; and decreasing, for each of the one or more beams, an output power of the respective beam from the default power level of the respective beam to a predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam.
46. A non-transitory computer readable recording medium storing a computer program product for performing power level control of one or more beams transmitted by a wireless transmission device to a wireless reception device, the computer program product comprising software instructions which, when run on processing circuitry of the transmission device, causes the wireless transmission device to: transmit each of the one or more beams at a default power level of the respective beam; detect an obstacle entering the one or more beams based on a change in an electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams, the obstacle, once entered, at least partially blocking the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device; and decrease, for each of the one or more beams, an output power of the respective beam from the default power level of the respective beam to a predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam.
47. A wireless transmission device configured to perform power level control of one or more beams transmitted by the wireless transmission device to a wireless reception device, the wireless transmission device comprising: processing circuitry; memory containing instructions executable by the processing circuitry whereby the wireless transmission device is operative to: transmit each of the one or more beams at a default power level of the respective beam; detect an obstacle entering the one or more beams based on a change in an electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams, the obstacle, once entered, at least partially blocking the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device; and decrease, for each of the one or more beams, an output power of the respective beam from the default power level of the respective beam to a predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam.
48. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam is set to comply with an electromagnetic field regulation preventing exposure of the obstacle to excessive electromagnetic radiation.
49. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the instructions are such that the wireless transmission device is operative to increase, for each of the one or more beams, the output power of the respective beam from the predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam to the default power level of the respective beam, when it is detected that the obstacle no longer blocks the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device.
50. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the one or more beams correspond to charging beams used for wirelessly charging the wireless reception device.
51. The wireless transmission device of claim 50, wherein the default power level of the respective beam corresponds to a maximum charging power level for the wireless reception device.
52. The wireless transmission device of claim 50, wherein decreasing the output power of the respective beam includes deactivating the respective beam.
53. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the instructions are such that the wireless transmission device is operative to, when it is detected that the obstacle at least partially blocks the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device, use an alternative beam direction for each of the one or more beams.
54. The wireless transmission device of claim 53, wherein, for each of the one or more beams, the alternative beam direction results in the respective beam being reflected before reaching the wireless reception device.
55. The wireless transmission device of claim 47: wherein each of the one or more beams is transmitted using a repetitive waveform pattern comprising a detection phase and a transmission phase; wherein, in the detection phase, one or more detection pulses are transmitted and their echo is monitored prior to the transmission phase to detect the change in the electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams.
56. The wireless transmission device of claim 55, wherein monitoring the echo of the one or more detection pulses comprises measuring at least one of an echo level and a time from detection pulse transmission to echo reception.
57. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the change in the electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams is detected based on measuring a time from an end of a transmission phase to an end of an echo of the transmission phase.
58. The wireless transmission device of claim 47: wherein each of the one or more beams forms an inner beam which is shrouded by an outer beam pointing into a same direction as the inner beam, the outer beam being wider than the inner beam; and wherein the change in the electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams is detected based on a change in a reflection pattern of the outer beam.
59. The wireless transmission device of claim 58, wherein the outer beam is distinguished from the inner beam by at least one of a different frequency and a different transmission pattern.
60. The wireless transmission device of claim 58, wherein the outer beam has a lower power level than the inner beam.
61. The wireless transmission device of claim 60, wherein the power level of the outer beam is not decreased when decreasing the power level of the respective beam.
62. The wireless transmission device of claim 47: wherein the change in the electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams is detected using one or more detectors placed remotely from the wireless transmission device; and wherein the one or more detectors are configured to detect changes in an electromagnetic radiation pattern observable in a transmission area of the one or more beams.
63. The wireless transmission device of claim 62, wherein the change in the electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams is detected using a plurality of detectors placed remotely from the wireless transmission device.
64. The wireless transmission device of claim 62: wherein a machine learning based model is employed to distinguish between obstacles sensitive to electromagnetic radiation and obstacles insensitive to electromagnetic radiation detected by the respective detectors; and wherein decreasing the output power of the respective beam is performed when the obstacle is determined to be an obstacle sensitive to electromagnetic radiation.
65. The wireless transmission device of claim 64, wherein the machine learning based model is trained in a cloud computing environment.
66. The wireless transmission device of claim 47, wherein the instructions are such that the wireless transmission device is operative to: transmit, to each of one or more additional wireless reception devices, one or more additional beams, and serve the wireless reception device and the one or more additional wireless reception devices according to a round robin strategy or according to priorities of the respective wireless reception devices.
67. A system, comprising: a wireless reception device; a wireless transmission device configured to perform power level control of one or more beams transmitted by the wireless transmission device to the wireless reception device, the wireless transmission device comprising: processing circuitry; memory containing instructions executable by the processing circuitry whereby the wireless transmission device is operative to: transmit each of the one or more beams at a default power level of the respective beam; detect an obstacle entering the one or more beams based on a change in an electromagnetic environment associated with the one or more beams, the obstacle, once entered, at least partially blocking the one or more beams with respect to the wireless reception device; and decrease, for each of the one or more beams, an output power of the respective beam from the default power level of the respective beam to a predetermined threshold power level of the respective beam.
</claims>
</document>
