<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE SOUZA, CARLOS DEMETRIO
RODRIGUES, MARCELO DOS SANTOS
STELMAR NETTO, MARCO AURELIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COLLABORATION NETWORK AND SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-node collaboration network can include multiple computing nodes communicatively coupled to a collaboration server. A computing node can be joined to the multi-node collaboration network for sharing data corresponding to a current project among a set of project team members. Current project data can be compared, using computer hardware, with previous project data stored in a data storage device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network. A previous project corresponding to the current project can be determined, using the computer hardware, based on the comparing the current project data with the previous project data. Using the computer hardware and responsive to detecting a nonconforming decision, an electronic notification of the nonconforming decision is provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: joining, using computer hardware, a computing node to a multi-node collaboration network for sharing data corresponding to a current project among a set of project team members; comparing, using the computer hardware, current project data with previous project data stored in a data storage device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network; determining, using the computer hardware, a previous project corresponding to the current project based on the comparing the current project data with the previous project data; and providing, using the computer hardware and responsive to detecting a nonconforming decision, an electronic notification of the nonconforming decision.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a set of decision requirements based on comparing current project data with previous project data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising monitoring at least one project implementation task with a sensing device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising detecting the nonconforming decision based on an analysis of sensor data generated by the sensing device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying decision data entered at one of a plurality of computing nodes as corresponding to a project decision requiring an approval of least one designated team member and, recording, responsive to at least one team member approving the project decision, an identity indicator corresponding to the at least one approving team member and a justification indicator provided by the at least one approving team member.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the nonconforming decision comprises determining whether each of a plurality of determined decision requirements has been met.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the nonconforming decision comprises classifying decisions according to user-specified criteria of success.
8. A system, comprising: a collaboration server having at least one processor programmed to initiate executable operations, the executable operations including: joining a computing node to a multi-node collaboration network for sharing data corresponding to a current project among a set of project team members; comparing current project data with previous project data stored in a data storage device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network; determining a previous project corresponding to the current project based on the comparing the current project data with the previous project data; and providing, responsive to detecting a nonconforming decision, an electronic notification of the nonconforming decision.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable operations further include identifying a set of decision requirements based on comparing current project data with previous project data.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable operations further include monitoring at least one project implementation task with a sensing device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable operations further comprise detecting the nonconforming decision based on an analysis of sensor data generated by the sensing device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable operations further include identifying decision data entered at one of a plurality of computing nodes as corresponding to a project decision requiring an approval of least one designated team member and, recording, responsive to at least one team member approving the project decision, an identity indicator corresponding to the at least one approving team member and a justification indicator provided by the at least one approving team member.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the detecting the nonconforming decision comprises classifying decisions according to user-specified criteria of success.
14. A computer program product, comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having program code stored thereon, the program code executable by computer hardware to initiate operations including: joining a computing node to a multi-node collaboration network for sharing data corresponding to a current project among a set of project team members; comparing current project data with previous project data stored in a data storage device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network; determining a previous project corresponding to the current project based on the comparing the current project data with the previous project data; and providing, responsive to detecting a nonconforming decision, an electronic notification of the nonconforming decision.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the operations further include identifying a set of decision requirements based on comparing current project data with previous project data.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the operations further include monitoring at least one project implementation task with a sensing device communicatively coupled to the collaboration network.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the operations further include detecting the nonconforming decision based on an analysis of sensor data generated by the sensing device.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the operations further include identifying decision data entered at one of a plurality of computing nodes as corresponding to a project decision requiring an approval of least one designated team member and, recording, responsive to at least one team member approving the project decision, an identity indicator corresponding to the at least one approving team member and a justification indicator provided by the at least one approving team member.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the detecting the nonconforming decision comprises determining whether each of a plurality of determined decision requirements has been met.
20. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the detecting the nonconforming decision comprises classifying decisions according to user-specified criteria of success.
</claims>
</document>
