<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OZAKI, Natsuko
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71101178
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING DEVICE, IDENTIFICATION DEVICE, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
Provided a learning device including: a first learning unit that learns parameters of a first neural network based on a first error between the same data as input data to a second neural network connected to a front stage of the first neural network and output data of the first neural network; and a second learning unit that learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from the first neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning device comprising: a first learning unit that learns parameters of a first neural network based on a first error between the same data as input data to a second neural network connected to a front stage of the first neural network and output data of the first neural network; and a second learning unit that learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from the first neural network.
2. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the first learning unit learns the parameters of the first neural network so that the first error decreases.
3. The learning device according to claim 2, wherein the first learning unit learns the parameters of the first neural network using an error back propagation method based on the first error.
4. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the second learning unit learns at least some parameters of the second neural network so that the first error increases.
5. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the second learning unit learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on an operation result obtained by performing a predetermined operation on the second error and the sign-inverted data.
6. The learning device according to claim 5, wherein the predetermined operation includes addition.
7. The learning device according to claim 5, wherein the second learning unit learns at least some parameters of the second neural network using an error back propagation method based on the second error and the sign-inverted data.
8. The learning device according to claim 7, wherein the second learning unit transmits the operation result to the second neural network.
9. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein a third neural network is connected in parallel with the first neural network to a rear stage of the second neural network, and the second learning unit transmits the second error from the third neural network to the second neural network.
10. The learning device according to claim 9, wherein the second learning unit updates parameters of the third neural network using an error back propagation method based on a third error between output data of the third neural network and teacher data, and transmits the second error to the second neural network.
11. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of first neural networks are connected in parallel to a rear stage of the second neural network, the first learning unit learns parameters of the plurality of first neural networks based on a first error between the same data as the input data to the second neural network and output data of each of the plurality of first neural networks, and the second learning unit learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from each of the first neural networks.
12. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein a conversion from the error transmitted from the first neural network to the sign-inverted data is a predetermined conversion that inverts a sign while increasing an absolute value of the sign-inverted data as an absolute value of the error increases.
13. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the input data includes at least one of image data and voice data.
14. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the first error is a mean squared error.
15. The learning device according to claim 10, wherein the third error is a value obtained by taking a cross entropy with data different from the input data after applying a SoftMax function to the output data or a center loss based on the output data.
16. A program that causes a computer to function as a learning device including: a first learning unit that learns parameters of a first neural network based on a first error between the same data as input data to a second neural network connected to a front stage of the first neural network and output data of the first neural network; and a second learning unit that learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from the first neural network.
17. An identification device comprising: for a neural network learned in a learning unit that learns parameters of a first neural network based on a first error between the same data as input data to a second neural network connected to a front stage of the first neural network and output data of the first neural network, and learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from the first neural network, an input unit that inputs identification target data; and an acquisition unit that acquires identification information corresponding to the output data based on the output data of the neural network.
18. The identification device according to claim 17, wherein the same data as the output data is previously associated with the identification information as a feature amount, and the acquisition unit acquires the identification information associated with the feature amount according to the output data.
19. The identification device according to claim 18, wherein the acquisition unit acquires the identification information based on encrypted output data.
20. A program that causes a computer to function as an identification device including: for a neural network learned in a learning unit that learns parameters of a first neural network based on a first error between the same data as input data to a second neural network connected to a front stage of the first neural network and output data of the first neural network, and learns at least some parameters of the second neural network based on a second error between data different from the input data and output data of the second neural network and sign-inverted data of an error transmitted from the first neural network, an input unit that inputs identification target data; and an acquisition unit that acquires identification information corresponding to the output data based on the output data of the neural network.
</claims>
</document>
