<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/335,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASAN, MADHUSUDHAN
Harijan, Kuppappa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70919113
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD TO AVOID SENDING A MESSAGE TO THE UNINTENDED RECIPIENT
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are described for preventing a message from being sent to an unintended recipient. A first context data structure is generated for a first conversation, a second context data structure is created for a second conversation, and then a message input is received as intended for the first conversation. The message is correlated with each of the first context data structures and the second context data structure to determine a relevance score corresponding to each of the first and second conversation. The relevance scores are compared and if the relevance score for the first conversation is greater than the relevance score for the second conversation, the message is sent; however, if the relevance score for the second conversation is greater than the relevance score for the first conversation, the message is not sent and the message is prevented from being sent to, for example, an unintended recipient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of preventing a message from being sent to an unintended recipient, the method comprising: generating a first context data structure for a first conversation based on content of the first conversation; generating a second context data structure for a second conversation based on content of the second conversation; receiving an input of a message for the first conversation; correlating the message with the first context data structure to determine a first relevance score; correlating the message with the second context data structure to determine a second relevance score; and comparing the first relevance score to the second relevance score and preventing sending of the message in the first conversation when the second relevance score is greater than the first relevance score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first context data structure includes first conversation time data, wherein the second context data structure includes second conversation time data, and wherein the message includes message content and message time data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the correlating the message with the first context data structure includes correlating message time data with first conversation time data, and wherein the correlating the message with the second context data structure includes correlating message time data with second conversation time data.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the correlating the message with the first context data structure includes weighting based on a comparison of the first conversation time data and the message time data.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the correlating the message with the second context data structure includes weighting based on a comparison of the second conversation time data and the message time data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the weighting is inversely proportional to a time difference between a portion of the second conversation time data and the message time data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first context data structure includes a hierarchal structure including one or more topics and a plurality of keywords from the first conversation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first conversation, the second conversation, and the message are text-based.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the comparing further comprises: comparing each of the first relevance score and the second relevance score to a predetermined threshold; creating a third conversation based on the message if the first relevance score and the second relevance do not meet or exceed the predetermined threshold; and sending the message.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first context data structure and the second context data structure include at least one of an array, matrix, stack, linked list, tree, queue or string.
11. A system for preventing a message from being sent to an unintended recipient, the system comprising: input/output circuitry configured to receive an input of a message for the first conversation; processing circuitry configured to generate a first context data structure for a first conversation based on content of the first conversation, generate a second context data structure for a second conversation based on content of the second conversation, correlate the message with the first context data structure to determine a first relevance score, correlate the message with the second context data structure to determine a second relevance score, and compare the first relevance score to the second relevance score; and control circuitry configured to prevent sending of the message in the first conversation when the second relevance score is greater than the first relevance score.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first context data structure includes first conversation time data, wherein the second context data structure includes second conversation time data, and wherein the message includes message content and message time data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to correlate message time data with first conversation time data and correlate the message time data with second conversation time data.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the first relevance score by weighting based on a comparison of the first conversation time data and the message time data.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the second relevance score by weighting based on a comparison of the second conversation time data and the message time data.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the weighting is inversely proportional to a time difference between a portion of the second conversation time data and the message time data.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the first context data structure includes a hierarchal structure including one or more topics and a plurality of keywords from the first conversation.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the first conversation, the second conversation, and the message are text-based.
19. (canceled)
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the first context data structure and the second context data structure include at least one of an array, matrix, stack, linked list, tree, queue or string.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions encoded thereon that when executed by control circuitry cause the control circuitry to: generate a first context data structure for a first conversation based on content of the first conversation; generate a second context data structure for a second conversation based on content of the second conversation; receive an input of a message for the first conversation; correlate the message with the first context data structure to determine a first relevance score; correlate the message with the second context data structure to determine a second relevance score; and compare the first relevance score to the second relevance score and prevent sending of the message in the first conversation when the second relevance score is greater than the first relevance score.
22. 22.-30. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
