<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2007-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04L29/12,H04W12/06,H04W4/029,H04W8/00,H04W8/18,H04W8/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DATAVALET TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAMPS, TOM
BURCHETT, CHRIS
MADGE, ROB
GAGNE, BRAD
SCOBIE, RAY
KANUKA, BENNETT
CAMPBELL, DON
SPENCER, RON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726708
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR WIRELESS DEVICE DETECTION, RECOGNITION AND VISIT PROFILING
</title>

<abstract>
Described are various embodiments of a system and method in which device-identifying data can be used to uniquely recognize and optionally track and report on device activity at one or more hotspot and/or Wi-Fi locations by way of the creation and management of a device and/or visit profile uniquely associated with such devices and stored in a network accessible knowledge base.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing Wi-Fi network access at any of multiple Wi-Fi hotspot locations to a wireless device, the method comprising: detecting, via a wireless access point (WAP) at a given one of the Wi-Fi hotspot locations, a wireless transmission sent by the wireless device, wherein said wireless transmission comprises a scanning transmission scanning for an available network connection or a probe request automatically transmitted by the wireless device in scanning for an available network connection; extracting a unique device identifier associated with the wireless device from said wireless transmission; providing the wireless device wireless access to an intercept page via said WAP, wherein said intercept page displays an opt-in user option for gaining user Wi-Fi network access at said given one of the Wi-Fi hotspot locations via said WAP and for user input of user contact data, wherein said user contact data is associated with a distinct user communication stream and comprises at least one of a user e-mail address or Short Message Service (SMS) contact data; receiving said user contact data input via said intercept page; providing the wireless device Wi-Fi network access; associating said user contact data with said unique device identifier in a network accessible database of stored user profiles; recognizing the wireless device in response to subsequent detection of said unique device identifier at any of the Wi-Fi hotspot locations in response to a subsequent user visit thereto; and pushing an e-mail message to said user e-mail address or pushing an SMS message via the SMS contact data in response to said recognizing the wireless device on said subsequent user visit.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said extracting comprises extracting a media access control (MAC) address of the wireless device from said wireless transmission.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said recognizing comprises cross-referencing said unique device identifier with said network accessible database of stored profiles.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein, in response to failure to recognize the wireless device via said cross-referencing, automatically creating a new device profile in said network accessible database of stored profiles as a function of said unique device identifier and recognizing the wireless device in response to subsequent detection at the Wi-Fi hotspot location.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said unique device identifier is automatically embedded by the wireless device within said wireless transmission without user input.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said unique device identifier is an inherent characteristic of the wireless device.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically defining one or more network access port characteristics associated with said WAP for said authenticated network access as a function of said opt-in user option.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said one or more network access port characteristics comprise at least one of an access bandwidth and an access time.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said intercept page is configured to display multiple opt-in user options for gaining the user Wi-Fi network access, wherein each of said multiple opt-in user options is associated with a respective one of multiple distinct user communication streams, and wherein the user Wi-Fi network access is provided in exchange for said user contact data corresponding to any one of said multiple distinct user communication streams.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising tracking and classifying each user visit to any one of the hotspot locations via said stored user profile.
11. A method for providing Wi-Fi network access at any one of multiple Wi-Fi hotspot locations to a wireless device, the method comprising: detecting, via a wireless access point (WAP) at a given one of the Wi-Fi hotspot locations, a wireless transmission sent by the wireless device; extracting a unique device identifier associated with the wireless device from said wireless transmission; wirelessly transmitting an engagement offer to the wireless device via said WAP, said engagement offer requiring user action on the wireless device for implementation, said user action resulting in enhanced communicative access to the wireless device via user contact data associated with a distinct user communication stream; recognizing the wireless device in response to subsequent detection of said unique device identifier at any of the hotspot locations in response to a subsequent user visit thereto; and in response to subsequently recognizing the wireless device via said unique device identifier, using said enhanced communicative access to automatically engage the user of the wireless device without user input via said distinct communication stream; wherein said user contact data is at least one of a user e-mail address or Short Message Service (SMS) contact data, and wherein said distinct user communication stream is correspondingly at least one of email or Short Message Service (SMS).
12. The method of claim 11, said user action resulting in transmission of said user contact data, the method further comprising: receiving and storing said transmitted user information in association with said unique device identifier; and in response to said subsequently recognizing the wireless device, automatically communicating a message to the wireless device via said user contact data.
13. A system for providing Wi-Fi network access at multiple Wi-Fi hotspot locations, the system comprising: a network accessible database having stored therein a plurality of device profiles each identifying a respective wireless device by a stored unique device identifier, each said stored unique device identifier indicative of an inherent characteristic of said respective wireless device; and a wireless access point (WAP), comprising one or more hardware processors, at each of said multiple Wi-Fi hotspot locations and configured to detect at a given location a wireless transmission sent from a given wireless device and having embedded therein a transmitted unique device identifier inherent to said given wireless device, said WAP interfacing with said network accessible database to cross-reference said transmitted unique device identifier with said plurality of device profiles to identify a matching profile and thereby recognize said given wireless device, and otherwise automatically create a new device profile based on said transmitted unique device identifier so to recognize said given wireless device in response to subsequent detection at any of said multiple Wi-Fi hotspot locations; wherein the system provides the given wireless device wireless access to an intercept page via said WAP; wherein said intercept page displays an opt-in user option for gaining user Wi-Fi network access at the given location via said WAP and input of user contact data, wherein said user contact data is associated with a distinct user communication stream, and wherein said user contact data is received via said intercept page; wherein the system is operable to: recognize the wireless device in response to subsequent detection of said unique device identifier at any of the Wi-Fi hotspot locations in response to a subsequent user visit thereto; and push a user message via said distinct user communication stream using said user contact data in response to recognizing the wireless device on said subsequent user visit; and wherein said user contact data comprises at least one of a user e-mail address or Short Message Service (SMS) contact data, and wherein said user message correspondingly comprises at least one of an e-mail message to said user e-mail address or an SMS message via said SMS contact data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein said inherent characteristic of said respective device comprises a media access control (MAC) address.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein said wireless transmission comprises a probe request automatically transmitted by said given device in scanning for an available network connection and having embedded therein said inherent characteristic of said respective device, said inherent characteristic of said respective device being a medium access control (MAC) address of said respective device.
16. The system of claim 13, further comprising a packet listener interfacing with said WAP and said network accessible database to extract said transmitted unique device identifier for cross-referencing with said plurality of device profiles.
</claims>
</document>
