<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
POWELL, KEVIN ROLAND
HENDRICH, SUSAN
FIELD, KEVIN
NARAYANAN, KAUSHIK RAMAIAH
ARNAIZ, Alfredo R.
CIPOLLONE, Domenic Joseph
VON HADEN, Kyle Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70289861
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STATUS-BASED READING AND AUTHORING ASSISTANCE
</title>

<abstract>
Status-based reading and authoring assistance is provided. A status-based reading and authoring assistance feature can automatically determine a status of a user and automatically adapt reading and authoring tools provided for display based on the determined status. The status-based reading and authoring assistance feature provides the right reading and authoring tools at the right time, according to the current use of the application. During a user session with respect to a productivity application that includes status-based reading and authoring assistance, signals (e.g., user actions and context information) associated with a file can be received. A status regarding the use of the file can be determined using at least the signals. The status can comprise a reading status or an authoring status (or even a sub status). Reading and authoring tools provided for a display of the productivity application can be adapted based on the status during the user session.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for status-based reading and authoring assistance comprising: during a user session of an application, receiving signals associated with a file displayed in a user interface of the application; determining, using at least the signals associated with the file, a status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; adapting reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file during the user session; during the user session of the application, receiving new signals associated with the file displayed in the user interface of the application; determining, using at least the new signals associated with the file, an updated status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the updated status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; and adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined updated status.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise one or more user actions.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise context information, the context information comprising at least one of a user name, user history information, an application name, an application state, application permissions, a file name, a file type, file lifecycle information, content in the file, and a client type.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the status regarding the use of the file comprises analyzing the signals using a status engine.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the status engine comprises one or more models.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file comprises: determining a first set of the reading and authoring tools that corresponds to the determined status; and providing the first set of the reading and authoring tools for display in the user interface of the application.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for the display based on the determined updated status comprises: determining a second set of the reading and authoring tools that corresponds to the determined updated status; and providing the second set of the reading and authoring tools for display in the user interface of the application in place of the first set of the reading and authoring tools.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined status is the reading status and the adapting reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status comprises providing at least a read aloud tool and a time to read tool.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined status is the authoring status and the adapting reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status comprises providing at least a writing refinement tool and a rewrite tool.
10. A computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by a processing system, perform a method comprising: during a user session of an application, receiving signals associated with a file displayed in a user interface of the application; determining, using at least the signals associated with the file, a status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; adapting reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file during the user session; during the user session of the application, receiving new signals associated with the file displayed in the user interface of the application; determining, using at least the new signals associated with the file, an updated status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the updated status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; and adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined updated status.
11. The medium of claim 10, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise one or more user actions.
12. The medium of claim 10, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise context information, the context information comprising at least one of a user name, user history information, an application name, an application state, application permissions, a file name, a file type, file lifecycle information, content in the file, and a client type.
13. The medium of claim 10, wherein determining the status regarding the use of the file comprises analyzing the signals using a status engine, wherein the status engine comprises one or more models.
14. The medium of claim 10, wherein adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file comprises: determining a first set of the reading and authoring tools that corresponds to the determined status; and providing the first set of the reading and authoring tools for display in the user interface of the application.
15. The medium of claim 14, wherein adapting the reading and authoring tools provided for the display based on the determined updated status comprises: determining a second set of the reading and authoring tools that corresponds to the determined updated status; and providing the second set of the reading and authoring tools for display in the user interface of the application in place of the first set of the reading and authoring tools.
16. A system comprising: a processing system; a storage system; and instructions stored on the storage system that, when executed by the processing system, direct the processing system to: during a user session of an application, receive signals associated with a file displayed in a user interface of the application; determine, using at least the signals associated with the file, a status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; adapt reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file during the user session; during the user session of the application, receive new signals associated with the file displayed in the user interface of the application; determine, using at least the new signals associated with the file, an updated status regarding use of the file displayed in the user interface of the application, wherein the updated status comprises a reading status or an authoring status; and adapt the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined updated status.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise one or more user actions.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the signals associated with the file comprise context information, the context information comprising at least one of a user name, user history information, an application name, an application state, application permissions, a file name, a file type, file lifecycle information, content in the file, and a client type.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions to determine the status regarding the use of the file direct the processing system to: analyze the signals using a status engine, wherein the status engine comprises one or more models.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions to adapt the reading and authoring tools provided for display in the user interface of the application based on the determined status regarding the use of the file direct the processing system to: determine one or more of the reading and authoring tools that corresponds to the determined status; and provide the one or more of the reading and authoring tools for the display in the user interface of the application.
</claims>
</document>
