<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06T17/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCCALL, MARC ALAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69884543
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR THREE-DIMENSIONAL MODEL SHARING
</title>

<abstract>
Examples of the disclosure describe systems and methods for decomposing and sharing 3D models. In an example method, a first version of a virtual three-dimensional model is displayed via a display of a wearable head device. A request is made to a host device for data associated with a second version of the virtual three-dimensional model, wherein the second version of the virtual three-dimensional model comprises a constituent part. It is determined whether the first version of the virtual three-dimensional model comprises the constituent part. In accordance with a determination that the first version of the virtual three-dimensional model does not comprise the constituent part, a request is made to the host device for data associated with the constituent part. The second version of the virtual three-dimensional model is displayed, via the display of the wearable head device. In accordance with a determination that the first version of the virtual three-dimensional model comprises the constituent part, a request is not made to the host device for data associated with the constituent part.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a host computing system; and a client computing system comprising a head-wearable display system, wherein the host computing system comprises one or more processors configured to execute a method comprising: accessing a virtual three-dimensional model stored in a memory; decomposing the three-dimensional model into one or more constituent parts; sending a list of the one or more constituent parts to the client computing system; receiving a constituent part request from the client computing system; sending one or more constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request to the client computing system; and wherein the client computing system comprises one or more processors configured to execute a method comprising: receiving the list of the one or more constituent parts from the host computing system; sending the constituent part request to the host computing system; receiving the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request from the host computing system; composing a copy of the virtual three-dimensional model from the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the constituent part comprises mesh data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the constituent part comprises texture data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the host computing system comprises a server.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the host computing system comprises a head-wearable display system.
6. The system of claim 1, the method further comprising storing the one or more constituent parts in a memory.
7. The system of claim 1, the method further comprising decompressing the one or more constituent parts.
8. A method comprising: accessing a virtual three-dimensional model stored in a memory; decomposing the three-dimensional model into one or more constituent parts; sending a list of the one or more constituent parts to a client computing system comprising a head-wearable display; receiving a constituent part request from the client computing system; sending one or more constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request to the client computing system; receiving the list of the one or more constituent parts from a host computing system; sending the constituent part request to the host computing system; receiving the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request from the host computing system; and composing a copy of the virtual three-dimensional model from the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the constituent part comprises mesh data.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the constituent part comprises texture data.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the host computing system comprises a server.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the host computing system comprises a head-wearable display system.
13. The method of claim 8, the method further comprising storing the one or more constituent parts in a memory.
14. The method of claim 8, the method further comprising decompressing the one or more constituent parts.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: accessing a virtual three-dimensional model stored in a memory; decomposing the three-dimensional model into one or more constituent parts; sending a list of the one or more constituent parts to a client computing system comprising a head-wearable display; receiving a constituent part request from the client computing system; sending one or more constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request to the client computing system; receiving the list of the one or more constituent parts from a host computing system; sending the constituent part request to the host computing system; receiving the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request from the host computing system; and composing a copy of the virtual three-dimensional model from the one or more of the constituent parts that correspond to the constituent part request.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the constituent part comprises mesh data.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the constituent part comprises texture data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the host computing system comprises a server.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the host computing system comprises a head-wearable display system.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising storing the one or more constituent parts in a memory.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the method further comprising decompressing the one or more constituent parts.
22. A method comprising: accessing a virtual three-dimensional model stored in a memory; decomposing the virtual three-dimensional model into one or more constituent parts; storing the one or more constituent parts in one or more arrays, wherein the one or more constituent parts are stored separate from the virtual three-dimensional model; receiving a connection request from a wearable head device; sending a list of available constituent parts to the wearable head device; receiving a constituent part request from the wearable head device; and sending the wearable head device a requested constituent part based on the constituent part request.
23. A method comprising: sending a connection request to a host device via a wearable head device; receiving a list of available constituent parts from the host device; sending a constituent part request to the host device; receiving a requested constituent part based on the constituent part request from the host device; and recomposing a copy of a virtual three-dimensional model based on the requested constituent part.
</claims>
</document>
