<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/00,E21B49/00,G01V1/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAUDI ARABIAN OIL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUO YI
GOLIKOV, PAVEL
LIU, YUJIN
AL-HEMYARI, EMAD ABDO
ALMUHAIDIB, ABDULAZIZ MOHAMMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69570845
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANALYZING SECONDARY ENERGY SOURCES IN SEISMIC WHILE DRILLING
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a computer-implemented include the following. A field dataset of seismic waves is received that is obtained by receivers during a drilling period from a drilling operation at a target well. The drilling period includes drilling and non-drilling phases. The field dataset is analyzed to determine locations of seismic waves. A reconstructed wavefield is determined by applying a passive seismic imaging condition over time and based on locations of the receivers. Using the reconstructed wavefield, a time series is computed for the seismic waves, and a time-frequency transform is applied on the time series. Sources and locations of tube waves resulting from acoustic signatures of the drill bit the drilling phases are determined. Sources and locations of the body waves caused by the tube waves are determined. A petrophysical model of the target well is updated in real-time based on the analyzing and the waves.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a field dataset of seismic waves obtained by receivers during a drilling period from a drilling operation at a target well, wherein the drilling period includes drilling phases and non-drilling phases; analyzing the field dataset to determine locations of seismic waves, including: determining a reconstructed wavefield by applying a passive seismic imaging condition over time and based on locations of the receivers; computing, using the reconstructed wavefield, a time series for the seismic waves and applying a time-frequency transform on the time series; determining, from the time-frequency transform, sources and locations of tube waves resulting from acoustic signatures of the drill bit the drilling phases; and determining, from the reconstructed wavefield, sources and locations of the body waves caused by the tube waves; and updating, in real-time based on the analyzing and the sources and locations of the body waves and the tube waves, a petrophysical model of the target well, wherein real-time is a specified period of time.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising updating, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, seismic logging information during the drilling operation.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising predicting, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, geophysical formations ahead of drill bit.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising performing preprocessing on the field dataset including: processing the field dataset, the processing including pilot trace correlation, band-pass filtering, bad traces muting, and amplitude correction; and updating the field dataset based on the processing.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the receivers include a geophone array of individual geophones arranged at pre-determined intervals, and wherein a center of the geophone array is located a distance away from a surface location of the target well.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein updating the seismic logging information during the drilling operation comprises: applying a moveout correction to traces in the seismic logging information by applying a source-receiver distance dependent time shift to each trace of the seismic logging information; combining the traces into a single trace by summing amplitude values of all traces at each time step and normalizing the traces to create a supertrace; applying a time-frequency analysis method to the supertrace, decomposing the time series within each short-time window into different frequency components; predicting, using the time-frequency analysis and by applying machine learning techniques, rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit, the rock properties associated with geological formations, including rock hardness, pore pressure, and fractures; and using the predicted rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit to adjust a drilling program in real time.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein predicting the rock properties comprises: back-propagating the receiver wavefield and applying a cross-correlation imaging condition to obtain source images of the sources without using a picking process; selecting a location of each source, the location associated with maximum energy in the source image; estimating a source signature by extracting the back-propagated receiver wavefields at the source location; applying a conventional seismic migration method to obtain a subsurface image under each source, including: forward-propagating the source wavefield using the estimated source signature; back-propagating the receiver wavefield; and applying a zero-lag cross-correlation imaging condition to cross-correlate the source wavefield and the receiver wavefield to obtain the subsurface image ahead of the drill bit; and using the subsurface image ahead of the drill bit to navigate drilling.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: receiving a field dataset of seismic waves obtained by receivers during a drilling period from a drilling operation at a target well, wherein the drilling period includes drilling phases and non-drilling phases; analyzing the field dataset to determine locations of seismic waves, including: determining a reconstructed wavefield by applying a passive seismic imaging condition over time and based on locations of the receivers; computing, using the reconstructed wavefield, a time series for the seismic waves and applying a time-frequency transform on the time series; determining, from the time-frequency transform, sources and locations of tube waves resulting from acoustic signatures of the drill bit the drilling phases; and determining, from the reconstructed wavefield, sources and locations of the body waves caused by the tube waves; and updating, in real-time based on the analyzing and the sources and locations of the body waves and the tube waves, a petrophysical model of the target well, wherein real-time is a specified period of time.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising updating, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, seismic logging information during the drilling operation.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising predicting, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, geophysical formations ahead of drill bit.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising performing preprocessing on the field dataset including: processing the field dataset, the processing including pilot trace correlation, band-pass filtering, bad traces muting, and amplitude correction; and updating the field dataset based on the processing.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the receivers include a geophone array of individual geophones arranged at pre-determined intervals, and wherein a center of the geophone array is located a distance away from a surface location of the target well.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein updating the seismic logging information during the drilling operation comprises: applying a moveout correction to traces in the seismic logging information by applying a source-receiver distance dependent time shift to each trace of the seismic logging information; combining the traces into a single trace by summing amplitude values of all traces at each time step and normalizing the traces to create a supertrace; applying a time-frequency analysis method to the supertrace, decomposing the time series within each short-time window into different frequency components; predicting, using the time-frequency analysis and by applying machine learning techniques, rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit, the rock properties associated with geological formations, including rock hardness, pore pressure, and fractures; and using the predicted rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit to adjust a drilling program in real time.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein predicting the rock properties comprises: back-propagating the receiver wavefield and applying a cross-correlation imaging condition to obtain source images of the sources without using a picking process; selecting a location of each source, the location associated with maximum energy in the source image; estimating a source signature by extracting the back-propagated receiver wavefields at the source location; applying a conventional seismic migration method to obtain a subsurface image under each source, including: forward-propagating the source wavefield using the estimated source signature; back-propagating the receiver wavefield; and applying a zero-lag cross-correlation imaging condition to cross-correlate the source wavefield and the receiver wavefield to obtain the subsurface image ahead of the drill bit; and using the subsurface image ahead of the drill bit to navigate drilling.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to the one or more processors and storing programming instructions for execution by the one or more processors, the programming instructions instructing the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a field dataset of seismic waves obtained by receivers during a drilling period from a drilling operation at a target well, wherein the drilling period includes drilling phases and non-drilling phases; analyzing the field dataset to determine locations of seismic waves, including: determining a reconstructed wavefield by applying a passive seismic imaging condition over time and based on locations of the receivers; computing, using the reconstructed wavefield, a time series for the seismic waves and applying a time-frequency transform on the time series; determining, from the time-frequency transform, sources and locations of tube waves resulting from acoustic signatures of the drill bit the drilling phases; and determining, from the reconstructed wavefield, sources and locations of the body waves caused by the tube waves; and updating, in real-time based on the analyzing and the sources and locations of the body waves and the tube waves, a petrophysical model of the target well, wherein real-time is a specified period of time.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, the operations further comprising updating, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, seismic logging information during the drilling operation.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, the operations further comprising predicting, in real-time and using the updated petrophysical model, geophysical formations ahead of drill bit.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, the operations further comprising performing preprocessing on the field dataset including: processing the field dataset, the processing including pilot trace correlation, band-pass filtering, bad traces muting, and amplitude correction; and updating the field dataset based on the processing.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein the receivers include a geophone array of individual geophones arranged at pre-determined intervals, and wherein a center of the geophone array is located a distance away from a surface location of the target well.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 16, wherein updating the seismic logging information during the drilling operation comprises: applying a moveout correction to traces in the seismic logging information by applying a source-receiver distance dependent time shift to each trace of the seismic logging information; combining the traces into a single trace by summing amplitude values of all traces at each time step and normalizing the traces to create a supertrace; applying a time-frequency analysis method to the supertrace, decomposing the time series within each short-time window into different frequency components; predicting, using the time-frequency analysis and by applying machine learning techniques, rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit, the rock properties associated with geological formations, including rock hardness, pore pressure, and fractures; and using the predicted rock properties around and ahead of the drill bit to adjust a drilling program in real time.
</claims>
</document>
