<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STARKEY LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANDHI, SWAPAN
CARLILE, SIMON
PETLEY, LAUREN
AKRAM, SAHAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66634092
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EAR-WORN ELECTRONIC DEVICE INCORPORATING MOTOR BRAIN-COMPUTER INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
An ear-worn electronic device comprises a plurality of EEG sensors configured to sense EEG signals from or proximate a wearer's ear. At least one processor is configured to detect, during a baseline period of no wearer movement, EEG signals from the EEG sensors, and detect, during each of a plurality of candidate control movements by the wearer, EEG signals from the EEG sensors. The at least one processor is also configured to compute, using the EEG signals, discriminability metrics for the candidate control movements and the baseline period, the discriminability metrics indicating how discriminable neural signals associated with the candidate control movements and the baseline period are from one another. The at least one processor is further configured to select a subset of the candidate control movements using the discriminability metrics, each of the selected control movements defining a neural command for controlling the ear-worn electronic device by the wearer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented using an ear-worn electronic device configured to be worn by a wearer, the method comprising: sensing, using a plurality of EEG sensors of a motor brain-computer interface (motor BCI) of the device, EEG signals elicited from the wearer in response to one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer, wherein each of the one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements is pre-selected for the wearer and corresponds to a neural command for controlling the device by the wearer; receiving the EEG signals by a processor of the motor BCI; translating, by the processor, features of the EEG signals to device control parameters for controlling the ear-worn electronic device; and controlling the device using the device control parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements is pre-selected for the wearer to elicit EEG signals in excess of a threshold established for the wearer.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the threshold represents a measure of discernibility between at least two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the threshold represents a measure of discernibility between at least any two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer and from non-movement of the wearer.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the threshold distinguishes between acceptable and unacceptable distance metric values of at least two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising: detecting, by the processor, at least alpha and beta power fluctuations in the EEG signals; and translating, by the processor, the power fluctuations to the device control parameters.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the features of the EEG signals translated to device control parameters comprise one or more of temporal, spectral, and spatial features of the EEG signals.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the processor comprises a data analysis pipeline configured to achieve one or both of a specified level of accuracy and real-time speed of operation.
9. The method of claim 8, comprising updating the data analysis pipeline to adapt to changes in the wearer's neural activity patterns or to identify context-dependent or chronological variations in the wearer's neural activity patterns.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the EEG signals are received by the processor in response to: instructions and feedback delivered to the wearer via an external device or the cloud communicatively coupled to the ear-worn electronic device; or instructions and feedback delivered to the wearer by audio input and output electronics of the ear-worn electronic device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling the ear-worn electronic device comprises one or more of: selecting between omnidirectional and directional microphone modes; controlling a beamforming feature of the device; changing memory settings of the device; and controlling streaming from a streaming source to the device.
12. An ear-worn electronic device configured to be worn by a wearer, the device comprising: a housing configured to be worn in, at or about an ear of the wearer; and a motor brain-computer interface (motor BCI) disposed at least in part in or on the housing, the motor BCI comprising: a plurality of EEG sensors configured to sense EEG signals elicited from the wearer in response to one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer, wherein each of the one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements is pre-selected for the wearer and corresponds to a neural command for controlling the device by the wearer; and a processor operatively coupled to the plurality of EEG sensors, the processor configured to: receive the EEG signals from the plurality of EEG sensors; translate features of the EEG signals to device control parameters for controlling the ear-worn electronic device; and control the device using the device control parameters.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein each of the one or any combination of planned, imagined, and executed body movements is pre-selected for the wearer to elicit EEG signals in excess of a threshold established for the wearer.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the threshold represents a measure of discernibility between at least two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the threshold represents a measure of discernibility between at least any two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer and from non-movement of the wearer.
16. The device of claim 12, wherein the threshold distinguishes between acceptable and unacceptable distance metric values of at least two of the planned, imagined, and executed body movements of the wearer.
17. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to: detect at least alpha and beta power fluctuations in the EEG signals; and translate the power fluctuations to the device control parameters.
18. The device of claim 12, wherein the features of the EEG signals translated by the processor to device control parameters comprise one or more of temporal, spectral, and spatial features of the EEG signals.
19. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor comprises a data analysis pipeline configured to achieve one or both of a specified level of accuracy and real-time speed of operation.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the processor is configured to update the data analysis pipeline to adapt to changes in the wearer's neural activity patterns or to identify context-dependent or chronological variations in the wearer's neural activity patterns.
21. The device of claim 12, wherein the EEG signals are received by the processor in response to: instructions and feedback delivered to the wearer via an external device or the cloud communicatively coupled to the ear-worn electronic device; or instructions and feedback delivered to the wearer by audio input and output electronics of the ear-worn electronic device.
22. The device of claim 12, wherein, the processor is configured to use the device control parameters to one or more of: select between omnidirectional and directional microphone modes; control a beamforming feature of the device; change memory settings of the device; and control streaming from a streaming source to the device.
23. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor is disposed in the housing.
24. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor comprises a local processor disposed in the housing and a processor of an electronic device external of the ear-worn electronic device.
25. The device of claim 12, wherein the processor comprises a local processor disposed in the housing and one or more processors of the cloud.
</claims>
</document>
