<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W64/00,H04W76/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69740782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION BASED CORESET CONFIGURATION FOR TRANSMITTING THE PHYSICAL DOWNLINK CONTROL CHANNEL IN 5G WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed subject matter relates to techniques for determining an appropriate aggregation level for a control channel resource set (CORESET). In one embodiment, a method is provided that comprises determining, by a first device operatively coupled to a processor, an aggregation level for application by a second device to decode candidate downlink control channels associated with a CORESET. The method further comprises transmitting, by the first device, aggregation level information to the second device indicating the aggregation level. As a result of the transmitting, the second device becomes configured to apply the aggregation level in association with attempting to decode the candidate control downlink control channels. In various embodiments, the aggregation level is determined based one or more criteria, including an aggregation level capability of the second device, a location of the second device relative to the first device, and a geometry associated with the second device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A first device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining an aggregation level for application by a second device to decode candidate downlink control channels associated with a control channel resource set; and sending aggregation level information to the second device indicating the aggregation level.
2. The first device of claim 1, wherein, based on the sending, the second device is configured to apply the aggregation level in association with attempting to decode the candidate control downlink control channels.
3. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises selecting the aggregation level from a group of candidate aggregation levels based on a defined criterion.
4. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises determining the aggregation level based on capability information indicating aggregation levels supported by the second device.
5. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises determining the aggregation level based on a location of the second device.
6. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises determining the aggregation level based on a distance between the second device and the first device.
7. The first device of claim 6, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises selecting a first aggregation level based on the distance being less than a defined distance and selecting a second aggregation level based on the distance being greater than the defined distance, and wherein the first aggregation level is lower than the second aggregation level.
8. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises determining the aggregation level based on a geometry associated with the second device.
9. The first device of claim 8, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises selecting a first aggregation level based on the geometry being less than a defined value and selecting a second aggregation level based on the geometry being greater than the defined value, and wherein the first aggregation level is higher than the second aggregation level.
10. The first device of claim 1, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises selecting the aggregation level from a group of candidate aggregation levels based on a combination of criteria selected from a group of criteria consisting of: a first criterion applicable to an aggregation level capability of the second device, a second criterion applicable to a location of the second device relative to the first device, and a third criterion applicable to a geometry associated with the second device.
11. The first device of claim 1, wherein the sending the aggregation level information comprises employing a signaling protocol classified as a higher layer signaling protocol.
12. The first device of claim 11, wherein the signaling protocol comprises a radio resource control signaling protocol or a media access control protocol.
13. A method, comprising: determining, by a first device operatively coupled to a processor, an aggregation level for application by a second device to decode candidate downlink control channels associated with a control channel resource set; and transmitting, by the first device, aggregation level information to the second device indicating the aggregation level.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein, as a result of the transmitting, the second device is enabled to apply the aggregation level in association with attempting to decode the candidate control downlink control channels.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining the aggregation level comprises selecting the aggregation level from a group of candidate aggregation levels based on a defined criterion.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the defined criterion is selected from a group of criteria consisting of: a first criterion applicable to an aggregation level capability of the second device, a second criterion applicable to a location of the second device relative to the first device, and a third criterion applicable to a geometry associated with the second device.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the transmitting the aggregation level information comprises employing a signaling protocol classified as a higher layer signaling protocol.
18. A first device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving aggregation level information from a second device indicating an aggregation level for a control channel resource set, wherein the aggregation level was selected by the second device from candidate aggregation levels based on a defined criterion; and based on the receiving, employing the aggregation level in association with attempting to decode candidate downlink control channels associated with the control channel resource set.
19. The first device of claim 18, wherein the defined criterion is evaluated with respect to a group of device criteria consisting of: an aggregation level capability of the first device, a location of the first device relative to the second device, and a geometry associated with the first device.
20. The first device of claim 18, wherein the aggregation level information comprises first aggregation level information, wherein the aggregation level comprises a first aggregation level, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving second aggregation level information from the second device indicating a second aggregation level for the control channel resource set, wherein the second aggregation level was selected by the second device from the candidate aggregation levels based on a change to the defined criterion; and based on the receiving, employing the second aggregation level instead of the first aggregation level in association with the attempting to decode the candidate downlink control channels.
</claims>
</document>
