<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANADA, SHOJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641475
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIMILARITY DETERMINATION APPARATUS, SIMILARITY DETERMINATION METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A finding classification unit classifies each pixel of a first medical image into at least one of a plurality of types of findings. A feature amount calculation unit calculates a first feature amount for each finding. A weighting coefficient setting unit sets a weighting coefficient indicating a degree of weighting which varies depending on a size of each finding for each finding. An adjustment unit adjusts the weighting coefficient for each of a plurality of finding groups, into which the plurality of types of findings are classified, to derive an adjusted weighting coefficient. A similarity derivation unit performs a weighting operation for the first feature amount for each finding calculated in the first medical image and a second feature amount for each finding calculated in advance in a second medical image on the basis of the adjusted weighting coefficient to derive the similarity between the first medical image and the second medical image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A similarity determination apparatus that determines a similarity between a first medical image and a second medical image, comprising: a finding classification unit that classifies each pixel of the first medical image into at least one of a plurality of types of findings; a feature amount calculation unit that calculates a first feature amount for each finding classified in the first medical image; a weighting coefficient setting unit that sets a weighting coefficient indicating a degree of weighting which varies depending on a size of each finding for each finding classified in the first medical image; an adjustment unit that derives an adjusted weighting coefficient by adjusting the weighting coefficient for each of a plurality of finding groups, into which the plurality of types of findings are classified; and a similarity derivation unit that derives the similarity between the first medical image and the second medical image by performing a weighting operation for the first feature amount for each finding calculated in the first medical image and a second feature amount for each finding calculated in advance in the second medical image, for each of the finding groups on the basis of the adjusted weighting coefficient.
2. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the adjustment unit adjusts the weighting coefficient on the basis of a representative value of the weighting coefficients, which have been set for each classification, for each finding group.
3. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the representative value is a sum of the weighting coefficients, which have been set for each classification, for each finding group.
4. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the adjustment unit adjusts the weighting coefficient in response to a command to change a degree of adjustment of the weighting coefficient.
5. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the adjustment unit adjusts the weighting coefficient in response to a command to change a degree of adjustment of the weighting coefficient.
6. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the adjustment unit adjusts the weighting coefficient in response to a command to change a degree of adjustment of the weighting coefficient.
7. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the adjustment unit receives a command to change the weighting coefficient displayed on a display unit and adjusts the weighting coefficient.
8. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the adjustment unit is a slider.
9. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of finding groups include a finding group that becomes a background included in the first medical image and a finding group that becomes an important finding included in the first medical image.
10. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the plurality of finding groups include a finding group that becomes a background included in the first medical image and a finding group that becomes an important finding included in the first medical image.
11. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of types of findings include at least one specific finding that is classified into two or more finding groups, and the adjustment unit performs weighting corresponding to relevance to the two or more finding groups for the specific finding to adjust the weighting coefficient.
12. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the plurality of types of findings include at least one specific finding that is classified into two or more finding groups, and the adjustment unit performs weighting corresponding to relevance to the two or more finding groups for the specific finding to adjust the weighting coefficient.
13. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the finding classification unit includes a discriminator that has been subjected to machine learning so as to classify the plurality of types of findings and classifies each pixel of the first medical image into the plurality of types of findings using the discriminator.
14. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the finding classification unit includes a discriminator that has been subjected to machine learning so as to classify the plurality of types of findings and classifies each pixel of the first medical image into the plurality of types of findings using the discriminator.
15. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a search unit that searches for a second medical image similar to the first medical image as a similar medical image on the basis of similarities between the first medical image and a plurality of the second medical images with reference to a case database in which the plurality of second medical images are registered and the second feature amounts for each of the plurality of second medical images are registered so as to be associated with the plurality of second medical images.
16. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising: a display control unit that displays a search result of the similar medical image on the display unit.
17. The similarity determination apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the finding classification unit calculates a plurality of evaluation values indicating a possibility of each pixel of the first medical image being each of the plurality of types of findings and classifies each pixel of the first medical image into at least one of the plurality of types of findings on the basis of the plurality of evaluation values.
18. A similarity determination method that determines a similarity between a first medical image and a second medical image, the method comprising: classifying each pixel of the first medical image into at least one of a plurality of types of findings; calculating a first feature amount for each finding classified in the first medical image; setting a weighting coefficient indicating a degree of weighting which varies depending on a size of each finding for each finding classified in the first medical image; deriving an adjusted weighting coefficient by adjusting the weighting coefficient for each of a plurality of finding groups, into which the plurality of types of findings are classified; and deriving the similarity between the first medical image and the second medical image by performing a weighting operation for the first feature amount for each finding calculated in the first medical image and a second feature amount for each finding calculated in advance in the second medical image, for each of the finding groups on the basis of the adjusted weighting coefficient.
19. A non-transitory computer recording medium storing a similarity determination program that causes a computer to perform a process of determining a similarity between a first medical image and a second medical image and to perform: classifying each pixel of the first medical image into at least one of a plurality of types of findings; calculating a first feature amount for each finding classified in the first medical image; setting a weighting coefficient indicating a degree of weighting which varies depending on a size of each finding for each finding classified in the first medical image; deriving an adjusted weighting coefficient by adjusting the weighting coefficient for each of a plurality of finding groups, into which the plurality of types of findings are classified; and deriving the similarity between the first medical image and the second medical image by performing a weighting operation for the first feature amount for each finding calculated in the first medical image and a second feature amount for each finding calculated in advance in the second medical image, for each of the finding groups on the basis of the adjusted weighting coefficient.
20. A similarity determination apparatus that determines a similarity between a first medical image and a second medical image, comprising: a processor configured to classify each pixel of the first medical image into at least one of a plurality of types of findings; calculate a first feature amount for each finding classified in the first medical image; set a weighting coefficient indicating a degree of weighting which varies depending on a size of each finding for each finding classified in the first medical image; derive an adjusted weighting coefficient by adjusting the weighting coefficient for each of a plurality of finding groups, into which the plurality of types of findings are classified; and derive the similarity between the first medical image and the second medical image by performing a weighting operation for the first feature amount for each finding calculated in the first medical image and a second feature amount for each finding calculated in advance in the second medical image, for each of the finding groups on the basis of the adjusted weighting coefficient.
</claims>
</document>
