<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2452,G06F16/28,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRIEDER, OPHIR
PEREGO, RAFFAELE
MELE, IDA
TONELLOTTO, NICOLA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CACHE OPTIMIZATION VIA TOPICS IN WEB SEARCH ENGINES
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments may provide a cache for query results that can adapt the cache-space utilization to the popularity of the various topics represented in the query stream. For example, a method for query processing may perform receiving a plurality of queries for data, determining at least one topic associated with each query, and requesting data responsive to each query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, including at least a static cache partition, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, the temporal cache partition may store data based on a topic associated with the data, and may be further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion may store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic may be selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and the data cache may retrieve data for the queries from the computer system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for query processing implemented in a computer system comprising a processor, a memory configured to store program instructions and data, and program instructions executable by the processor to perform: receiving a plurality of queries for data; and requesting data responsive to each query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition configured to retrieve data based on a query, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to store data based on a topic associated with the data and is configured to retrieve data based on a topic, wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion configured to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is configured to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion configured to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion configured to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
6. A method for query processing implemented in a computer system comprising a processor, a memory configured to store program instructions and data, and program instructions executable by the processor to perform: receiving a plurality of queries for data; and requesting data responsive to at least one query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition configured to retrieve data based on a query, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to store data based on a topic associated with the data and is configured to retrieve data based on a topic, wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion configured to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is configured to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system; wherein requesting the data responsive to the at least one query from the data cache comprises: requesting data responsive to the at least one query from the static cache partition using the at least one query; and when the requested data are not found in the static cache partition, determining at least one topic associated with the at least one query and requesting data responsive to the at least one query from the temporal cache partition using the at least one determined topic.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion configured to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion configured to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
11. A system for query processing comprising: a computer system comprising a processor, a memory configured to store program instructions and data, and program instructions executable by the processor to perform: receiving a plurality of queries for data; and requesting data responsive to at least one query from a data cache comprising a plurality of partitions, wherein there are at least a static cache partition configured to retrieve data based on a query, a dynamic cache partition, and a temporal cache partition, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to store data based on a topic associated with the data and is configured to retrieve data based on a topic, wherein the temporal cache partition is further partitioned into a plurality of topic portions, each portion configured to store data relating to an associated topic, wherein the associated topic is selected from among determined topics of queries received by the computer system, and wherein the data cache is configured to retrieve data responsive to at least some queries from the computer system; wherein requesting the data responsive to the at least one query from the data cache comprises: requesting data responsive to the at least one query from the static cache partition using the at least one query; and when the requested data are not found in the static cache partition, determining at least one topic associated with the at least one query and requesting data responsive to the at least one query from the temporal cache partition using the at least one determined topic.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein each topic portion is further partitioned into a static portion configured to store data entries indefinitely, and into a dynamic portion configured to store data entries until each least recently used data entry is replaced by a newer data entry.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the topic portion is further recursively partitioned with further refinements of the topic into corresponding sub-topics.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one topic associated with each query is determined using a Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the temporal cache partition is configured to be trained using a plurality of training queries associated with a plurality of topics.
</claims>
</document>
