<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HANGZHOU HIKVISION DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, YUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65810111
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEEP NEURAL NETWORK-BASED METHOD AND DEVICE FOR QUANTIFYING ACTIVATION AMOUNT
</title>

<abstract>
A method and an apparatus for quantizing an activation volume of a deep neural network are disclosed. The method includes: obtaining an activation volume of a network layer in the deep neural network (S101), wherein elements in the activation volume are arranged in three directions: height, width, and depth; dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into a same slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups (S102); quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained through a quantization formula (S103). The quantization error can be reduced through the above method.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for quantizing an activation volume of a deep neural network, comprising: obtaining an activation volume of a network layer in the deep neural network, wherein elements in the activation volume are arranged in three directions: a height direction, a width direction, and a depth direction; dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: dividing, along the depth direction of the activation volume, the activation volume according to a preset depth interval to obtain a plurality of slice groups with equal depth interval.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: obtaining an element feature of each depth segment in the activation volume; and dividing depth segments in which the difference among element features is smaller than the preset threshold into one slice group, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantization parameter comprises a quantization step; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula comprises: obtaining a quantization step of each slice group by using the quantization formula according to a preset maximum quantization value and a preset number of bits corresponding to each slice group, wherein the quantization formula is: wherein, step is the quantization step, A is the preset maximum quantization value, and B is the preset number of bits; quantizing each slice group respectively by using the quantization step of each slice group.
5. 5-8. (canceled)
9. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium with executable codes stored thereon, wherein the executable codes are, when executed, configured for carrying out a method for quantizing an activation volume of a deep neural network, the method comprises: obtaining an activation volume of a network layer in the deep neural network, wherein elements in the activation volume are arranged in three directions: a height direction, a width direction, and a depth direction; dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula.
10. (canceled)
11. A computer device, comprising a processor and a storage medium, wherein, the storage medium is configured for storing executable code; the processor is configured for carrying out a method for quantizing an activation volume of a deep neural network when executing the executable code stored in the storage medium, the method comprises: obtaining an activation volume of a network layer in the deep neural network, wherein elements in the activation volume are arranged in three directions: a height direction, a width direction, and a depth direction; dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: dividing, along the depth direction of the activation volume, the activation volume according to a preset depth interval to obtain a plurality of slice groups with equal depth interval.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: obtaining an element feature of each depth segment in the activation volume; and dividing depth segments in which the difference among element features is smaller than the preset threshold into one slice group, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the quantization parameter comprises a quantization step; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula comprises: obtaining a quantization step of each slice group by using the quantization formula according to a preset maximum quantization value and a preset number of bits corresponding to each slice group, wherein the quantization formula is: wherein, step is the quantization step, A is the preset maximum quantization value, and B is the preset number of bits; quantizing each slice group respectively by using the quantization step of each slice group.
15. The computer device of claim 11, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: dividing, along the depth direction of the activation volume, the activation volume according to a preset depth interval to obtain a plurality of slice groups with equal depth interval.
16. The computer device of claim 11, wherein dividing depth segments in the activation volume in which a difference among element features is smaller than a preset threshold into one slice group along the depth direction of the activation volume, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups comprises: obtaining an element feature of each depth segment in the activation volume; and dividing depth segments in which the difference among element features is smaller than the preset threshold into one slice group, so as to obtain a plurality of slice groups.
17. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the quantization parameter comprises a quantization step; and quantizing each slice group respectively by using a quantization parameter corresponding to each slice group obtained by using a quantization formula comprises: obtaining a quantization step of each slice group by using the quantization formula according to a preset maximum quantization value and a preset number of bits corresponding to each slice group, wherein the quantization formula is: wherein, step is the quantization step, A is the preset maximum quantization value, and B is the preset number of bits; quantizing each slice group respectively by using the quantization step of each slice group.
</claims>
</document>
