<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAGWAN, VARUN
MAAREK, YOELLE
SHARP, DOUG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55792897
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ENTITY DETECTION IN MACHINE GENERATED MESSAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a system and method for email management that leverages information derived from automatically generated messages in order to identify types of messages and message content. The disclosed systems and methods apply the information learned from decoding previously received messages to other messages in a user's inbox to fully, or at least partially decode the information included within such messages. The disclosed systems and methods analyze messages received in a user's inbox to detect message specific information corresponding to types of content in the message and the location of such content in the messages. The message specific information is then applied to other newly received or identified messages to learn message specific information about those messages. Based on such learning, information can be extracted from such messages in order to increase a user's experience and increase monetization.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method comprising: identifying, via a computing device, a first message associated with an inbox of a user; identifying, via the computing device, based on an identifier of the user, a known message template associated with said inbox, said known message template comprising information indicating a message layout of known messages from particular types of senders; analyzing, via the computing device, said first message, and based on said analysis, identifying message data, said message data comprising information indicating a regular expression associated with a type of sender; comparing, via the computing device, the message data of the first message with said known message template; determining, via the computing device, based on said comparison, that said first message is an unknown message based on said comparison, said determination comprising identifying that said first message comprises a layout that differs from the message template by a threshold degree, such that said regular expression information is at least positioned with the first message at an unrecognized position within the message template; generating, via the computing device, a new message template based on said message data, said new message template comprising a layout of said first message; and storing, via the computing device, said new message template.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: receiving a second message; and extracting message content from said second message based on said identified known message template.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising: controlling how said second message is displayed within said inbox based on said extracted message content.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the message layout of the known message template comprises message data including information selected from a group consisting of structural design information, pattern information, a user name, email address, phone number, address, product information, vendor information, a subject line, temporal information and spatial information.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the known message template is associated with a specific sender, the message layout of the known message template derived from a set of messages determined to have a consistent layout from said specific sender.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein said first message is an automatic message sent by a sender providing said user digital content or services.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein said first message is an incoming message addressed to the user's inbox.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein said first message is a previously received message in the user inbox.
29. The method of claim 21, further comprising: identifying a plurality of messages associated with said inbox, wherein said message extraction and template generation is based on each of the plurality of messages.
30. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium tangibly encoded with computer-executable instructions, that when executed by a computing device, perform a method comprising: identifying, via the computing device, a first message associated with an inbox of a user; identifying, via the computing device, based on an identifier of the user, a known message template associated with said inbox, said known message template comprising information indicating a message layout of known messages from particular types of senders; analyzing, via the computing device, said first message, and based on said analysis, identifying message data, said message data comprising information indicating a regular expression associated with a type of sender; comparing, via the computing device, the message data of the first message with said known message template; determining, via the computing device, based on said comparison, that said first message is an unknown message based on said comparison, said determination comprising identifying that said first message comprises a layout that differs from the message template by a threshold degree, such that said regular expression information is at least positioned with the first message at an unrecognized position within the message template; generating, via the computing device, a new message template based on said message data, said new message template comprising a layout of said first message; and storing, via the computing device, said new message template.
31. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, further comprising: receiving a second message; and extracting message content from said second message based on said identified known message template.
32. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 31, further comprising: controlling how said second message is displayed within said inbox based on said extracted message content.
33. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, wherein the message layout of the known message template comprises message data including information selected from a group consisting of structural design information, pattern information, a user name, email address, phone number, address, product information, vendor information, a subject line, temporal information and spatial information.
34. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, wherein the known message template is associated with a specific sender, the message layout of the known message template derived from a set of messages determined to have a consistent layout from said specific sender.
35. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, wherein said first message is an automatic message sent by a sender providing said user digital content or services.
36. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, wherein said first message is an incoming message addressed to the user's inbox.
37. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, wherein said first message is a previously received message in the user inbox.
38. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 30, further comprising: identifying a plurality of messages associated with said inbox, wherein said message extraction and template generation is based on each of the plurality of messages.
39. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executed by the processor for identifying a first message associated with an inbox of a user; logic executed by the processor for identifying based on an identifier of the user, a known message template associated with said inbox, said known message template comprising information indicating a message layout of known messages from particular types of senders; logic executed by the processor for analyzing said first message, and based on said analysis, identifying message data, said message data comprising information indicating a regular expression associated with a type of sender; logic executed by the processor for comparing the message data of the first message with said known message template; logic executed by the processor for determining based on said comparison, that said first message is an unknown message based on said comparison, said determination comprising identifying that said first message comprises a layout that differs from the message template by a threshold degree, such that said regular expression information is at least positioned with the first message at an unrecognized position within the message template; logic executed by the processor for generating a new message template based on said message data, said new message template comprising a layout of said first message; and logic executed by the processor for storing said new message template.
40. The computing device of claim 39, further comprising: logic executed by the processor for receiving a second message; logic executed by the processor for extracting message content from said second message based on said identified known message template; and logic executed by the processor for controlling how said second message is displayed within said inbox based on said extracted message content.
</claims>
</document>
