<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H50/30,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONROY, BRYAN
RAHMAN, ASIF
RUBIN, JONATHAN
XU, MINNAN
ZHAO, CLAIRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406392
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR TRANSFORMING PATIENT DATA INTO IMAGES FOR INFECTION PREDICTION
</title>

<abstract>
A method of determining the infection risk probability for a patient, including: encoding physiological data of the patient into a first synthetic image; encoding environmental data of the patient into a second synthetic image; determining an intrinsic probability of infection for the patient based upon the first synthetic image and the second synthetic image using a machine learning model; generating a graphical model based upon the patient and other patients based upon similarity scores between the patient and the other patients; and determining the infection risk probability for the patient based upon the graphical model and the intrinsic probability of infection for the patient and the other patients.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining the infection risk probability for a patient, comprising: encoding physiological data of the patient into a first synthetic image; encoding environmental data of the patient into a second synthetic image; determining an intrinsic probability of infection for the patient based upon the first synthetic image and the second synthetic image using a machine learning model; determining patterns of infection transmission by generating a graphical model based upon the intrinsic probability of patients based upon similarity scores between the patient and the other patients; and determining the infection risk probability for the patient based upon the graphical model and the intrinsic probability of infection for the patient and the other patients.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first synthetic image is a radar-type chart where each data parameter of the physiological data is encoded by an angle, the time and effective duration of the data parameter is encoded by the position and length of a segment on a radius, and the value of the data parameter is encoded as a gray scale value for the portion of the first synthetic image corresponding to the data parameter.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the radius encoding of the data proceeds from the center of to the outer boundaries of the circle along the radius based upon the time of the data parameter from the earliest time to the most recent time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second synthetic image is a circular slice-based image where each day includes the same angular extent and each environmental parameter is encoded as a slice of a day wherein the angular extent of the slice indicates the duration of the environmental parameter and the gray scale value of the slice indicated a code associated with the environmental parameter.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the radius of the slice indicates the total duration of all environmental parameters for the day.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the first synthetic image and the second synthetic image into a predetermined number of image pixels with discrete values before determining an intrinsic probability of infection for the patient.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a lattice representation of the of the patient facility indicating the location of the patients in the facility and the barriers separating the patients.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the graphical model includes a node for each patient and edges between each of the nodes indicating the similarity metric between each of the patients and wherein the graphical model is based upon the lattice representation.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is based upon the first synthetic images and the second synthetic images of the two patients.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is based upon the distance between the two patients based upon the lattice representation.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is further based upon the barriers between the two patients.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the infection risk probability for the patient is based on the weighted sum of the intrinsic probability of infection of the other patients where the similarity metrics are used as weights.
13. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for deterring the infection risk probability for a patient, comprising: instructions for encoding physiological data of the patient into a first synthetic image; instructions for encoding environmental data of the patient into a second synthetic image; instructions for determining an intrinsic probability of infection for the patient based upon the first synthetic image and the second synthetic image using a machine learning model; instructions for generating a graphical model based upon the patient and other patients based upon similarity scores between the patient and the other patients; and instructions for determining the infection risk probability for the patient based upon the graphical model and the intrinsic probability of infection for the patient and the other patients.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the first synthetic image is a radar-type chart where each data parameter of the physiological data is encoded by an angle, the time and effective duration of the data parameter is encoded by the position and length of a segment on a radius, and the value of the data parameter is encoded as a gray scale value for the portion of the first synthetic image corresponding to the data parameter.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the radius encoding of the data proceeds from the center to the boundary of the circle based upon the time of the data parameter from the earliest time to the most recent time.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the second synthetic image is a circular slice-based image where each day includes the same angular extent and each environmental parameter is encoded as a slice of a day wherein the angular extent of the slice indicates the duration of the environmental parameter and the gray scale value of the slice indicated a code associated with the environmental parameter.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the radius of the slice indicates the total duration of all environmental parameters for the day.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for processing the first synthetic image and the second synthetic image into a predetermined number of image pixels with discrete values before determining an intrinsic probability of infection for the patient.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for generating a lattice representation of the of the patient facility indicating the location of the patients in the facility and the barriers separating the patients.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the graphical model includes a node for each patient and edges between each of the nodes indicating the similarity metric between each of the patients and wherein the graphical model is based upon the lattice representation.
21. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is based upon the first synthetic images and the second synthetic images of the two patients.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is based upon the distance between the two patients based upon the lattice representation.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the similarity metric between two patients is further based upon the barriers between the two patients.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining the infection risk probability for the patient is based on the weighted sum of the intrinsic probability of infection of the other patients where the similarity metrics are used as weights.
</claims>
</document>
