<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/10,G06N7/00,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANERJEE AYAN
GHOSH, ANKAN
BATCHU, NATARAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72142643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFYING LOCATIONS AND CAUSES OF NETWORK FAULTS
</title>

<abstract>
Customized feature vectors are used to train a machine learning algorithm to automatically identify a network component where a network fault has occurred. A database comprising network components and associated network faults is analyzed to select a set of network components associated with the largest quantity of network faults. Customized features associated with the network faults are identified and selected for use in a feature vector as input to a machine learning algorithm. The features are selected based upon analysis of consistency checks, component configuration limits, and network wide configurations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: selecting, by one or more computing devices, a set of network components from one or more network components; generating, by the one or more computing devices, a vector comprising extracted features associated with one or more resolved network faults; associating, by the one or more computing devices, each particular network component from the set of network components with one or more of the generated vectors; generating, by the one or more computing devices, training data comprising each particular network component and the associated one or more generated vectors; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, a notification that a network fault has occurred; accessing, by the one or more computing devices, a service application running a machine learning algorithm, operation of the machine learning algorithm being based on the generated training data to predict a fault network component associated with the network fault; and receiving, by the one or more computing devices and from the service application, a notification of the fault network component predicted to be associated with the network fault received in the notification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises: identifying, by the one or more computing devices, a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; and calculating, by the one or more computing devices, a probability that a resolved network fault has occurred at each of the one or more network components, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises selecting the network components exceeding a probability threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises: identifying, by the one or more computing devices, a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; ranking, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more network components in descending order based upon the quantity of resolved network faults per network component; calculating, by the one or more computing devices, a percentage of resolved network faults occurring at each of the one or more network components; and cumulatively summing, by the one or more computing devices, the calculated percentages until the cumulative sum reaches a configured threshold, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises the network components represented in the cumulative sum.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises: identifying, by the one or more computing devices, a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; and ranking, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more network components in descending order based upon the quantity of resolved network faults per network component, wherein selecting the set of network components comprises selecting a specified quantity of network components comprising the largest number of resolved network faults per network component.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the vector comprises: obtaining, by the one or more computing devices, a list of the one or more resolved network faults associated with the set of network components; identifying, by the one or more computing devices, a location for each of the one or more resolved network faults on the list; and extracting, by the one or more computing devices, features associated with each of the one or more resolved network faults at each of the identified locations.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the features are quantifiable values.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the features are associated with causes of the one or more resolved network faults.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the location of the one or more resolved network faults is determined by a path tracing software application.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein dimensions of the vector are based upon a quantity of the extracted features.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the service application is a network fault identification application.
11. A computer program product, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-readable program instructions embodied thereon, the computer-readable program instructions comprising: computer-readable program instructions to select a set of network components from one or more network components; computer-readable program instructions to generate a vector comprising extracted features associated with one or more resolved network faults; computer-readable program instructions to associate each particular network component from the set of network components with one or more of the generated vectors; computer-readable program instructions to generate training data comprising each particular network component and the associated one or more generated vectors; computer-readable program instructions to receive a notification that a network fault has occurred; computer-readable program instructions to access a service application running a machine learning algorithm, operation of the machine learning algorithm being based on the generated training data to predict a fault network component associated with the network fault; and computer-readable program instructions to receive, from the service application, a notification of the fault network component predicted to be associated with the network fault received in the notification.
12. The computer programming product of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises: computer-readable program instructions to identify a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; and computer-readable program instructions to calculate a probability that a resolved network fault has occurred at each of the one or more network components, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises computer-readable program instructions to select the network components exceeding a probability threshold.
13. The computer programming product of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises: computer-readable program instructions to identify a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; computer-readable program instructions to rank the one or more network components in descending order based upon the quantity of resolved network faults per network component; computer-readable program instructions to calculate a percentage of resolved network faults occurring at each of the one or more network components; and computer-readable program instructions to cumulatively sum the calculated percentages until the cumulative sum reaches a configured threshold, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprising the network components represented in the cumulative sum.
14. The computer programming product of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises: computer-readable program instructions to identify a quantity of resolved network faults associated with each of the one or more network components from a database; and computer-readable program instructions to rank the one or more network components in descending order based upon the quantity of resolved network faults per network component, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to select the set of network components comprises computer-readable program instructions to select a specified quantity of network components comprising the largest number of resolved network faults per network component.
15. The computer programming product of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable program instructions to generate the vector comprises: computer-readable program instructions to obtain a list of the one or more resolved network faults associated with the set of network components; computer-readable program instructions to identify a location for each of the one or more resolved network faults on the list; and computer-readable program instructions to extract features associated with each of the one or more resolved network faults at each of the identified locations.
16. The computer programming product of claim 15, wherein the location of the one or more resolved network faults is determined by a path tracing software application.
17. The computer programming product of claim 15, wherein the features are quantifiable values.
18. The computer programming product of claim 15, wherein the features are associated with causes of the one or more resolved network faults.
19. A system, comprising: a storage device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the storage device, wherein the processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the storage device to cause the system to: select a set of network components from one or more network components; generate a vector comprising extracted features associated with one or more resolved network faults; associate each particular network component from the set of network components with one or more of the generated vectors; generate training data comprising each particular network component and the associated one or more generated vectors; receive a notification that a network fault has occurred; access a service application running a machine learning algorithm, operation of the machine learning algorithm being based on the generated training data to predict a fault network component associated with the network fault; and receive, from the service application, a notification of the fault network component predicted to be associated with the network fault received in the notification.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the extracted features are quantifiable values and the extracted features are associated with causes of the one or more resolved network faults.
</claims>
</document>
