<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CYLANCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATHURST, DONALD
CAREY, MARK
Walthinsen, Erik
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70680703
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System Abnormality Detection Using Signal Fingerprinting
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and devices are described herein for detecting abnormalities within a system based on signal fingerprinting. A plurality of electrical signals are concurrently received from a transceiver over a time period. The time period is partitioned into a plurality of sampling windows. An electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals is sequentially selected. For the sequentially selected electrical signal, a temporal snapshot of said electrical signal is iteratively captured over a sampling window of the plurality of sampling windows. This iterative capturing is repeated for remaining sampling windows of the plurality of sampling windows. Each captured temporal snapshot is temporally concatenated over the time period according to its respective temporal position of the time period to generate the signal fingerprint.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for implementation by one or more data processors forming one or more computing devices, the method comprising: concurrently receiving a plurality of electrical signals from a transceiver over a time period, wherein the time period is partitioned into a plurality of sampling windows; sequentially selecting an electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals; iteratively capturing, for the sequentially selected electrical signal, a temporal snapshot of said electrical signal over a sampling window of the plurality of sampling windows; repeating the iteratively capturing for remaining sampling windows of the plurality of sampling windows; and temporally concatenating each captured temporal snapshot over the time period according to its respective temporal position of the time period to generate a real-time fingerprint.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, by at least one data processor, a signal difference between the real-time fingerprint and a predetermined fingerprint of the transceiver.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: comparing, by at least one data processor, the signal difference to a predetermined error threshold; and identifying, by at least one data processor, an abnormality in a system comprising the transceiver when the signal difference is outside of the predetermined error threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising remedying, by at least one data processor, the abnormality by alerting a user of the system through a message displayed on a graphical user interface.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising remedying, by at least one data processor, the abnormality by implementing a firewall rule that blocks the transceiver from further communication with the system.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the firewall rule prohibits communication by the transceiver with component of the system.
7. The method of claim 3, further comprising remedying, by at least one data processor, the abnormality by disabling one or more interfaces to the transceiver to prohibit communication between the transceiver and components of the system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the transceiver is at least one of a 10 megabit (Mb) Ethernet transceiver, 100 Mb Ethernet transceiver, or 1 gigabit (Gb) Ethernet transceiver.
9. The method of claim 3, wherein the real-time fingerprint characterizes components of the system electrically coupled to the transceiver, the components including at least one of a data cable coupled to the transceiver, one or more data processors coupled to the transceiver, or one or more electrical cables.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electrical signals comprise a plurality of voltage signals.
11. A system comprising: a transceiver configured to receive data from a communications bus and generate a plurality of electrical signals representing the data; a fingerprint module coupled to the transceiver, the fingerprint module configured to receive the plurality of electrical signals and generate a real-time fingerprint of components coupled to the communications bus; and a memory device coupled to the fingerprint module, the memory device configured to store a baseline fingerprint of the components coupled to the communications bus for comparison with the real-time fingerprint.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the fingerprint module generates the real-time fingerprint by: concurrently receiving a plurality of electrical signals from a transceiver over a time period, wherein the time period is partitioned into a plurality of sampling windows; sequentially selecting an electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals; iteratively capturing, for the sequentially selected electrical signal, a temporal snapshot of said electrical signal over a sampling window of the plurality of sampling windows; repeating the iteratively capturing for remaining sampling windows of the plurality of sampling windows; and temporally concatenating each captured temporal snapshot over the time period according to its respective temporal position of the time period to generate the real-time fingerprint.
13. The system of claim 11, further comprising: a controller comprising the memory device; and a controller interface coupled between the controller and the transceiver, the controller interface configured to facilitate data transmission between the transceiver and the controller in a compatible data format.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the fingerprint module comprises: a switch coupled to the transceiver, the switch configured to receive the plurality of electrical signals and select one electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals; a track and hold component coupled to the switch, the track and hold component configured to receive the selected electrical signal and pause said selected electrical signal in time; a converter coupled to the track and hold component and the sequencer, the converter configured to sample the selected electrical signal; a serial peripheral interface (SPI) coupled to the sequencer and the converter, the SPI configured to transmit the sampled electrical signal; and a sequencer coupled to the transceiver, the track and hold component, and the switch, the sequencer configured to trigger each of the track and hold component and the converter to operate at a moment in time.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the transceiver is at least one of a 10 megabit (Mb) Ethernet transceiver, 100 Mb Ethernet transceiver, or 1 gigabit (Gb) Ethernet transceiver.
16. A system comprising: a communications bus configured to transmit data; a first abnormality detection system coupled to the communications bus, the first abnormality detection system configured to provide data to the communications bus; and a second abnormality detection system coupled to the communications bus, the second abnormality detection system configured to monitor the first abnormality detection system for system abnormalities by generating a real-time fingerprint of the first abnormality detection system and comparing the real-time fingerprint to a baseline fingerprint associated with the first abnormality detection system.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the second abnormality detection system generates the real-time fingerprint by: concurrently receiving a plurality of electrical signals from a transceiver over a time period, wherein the time period is partitioned into a plurality of sampling windows; sequentially selecting an electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals; iteratively capturing, for the sequentially selected electrical signal, a temporal snapshot of said electrical signal over a sampling window of the plurality of sampling windows; repeating the iteratively capturing for remaining sampling windows of the plurality of sampling windows; and temporally concatenating each captured temporal snapshot over the time period according to its respective temporal position of the time period to generate the real-time fingerprint.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the transceiver is at least one of a 10 megabit (Mb) Ethernet transceiver, 100 Mb Ethernet transceiver, or 1 gigabit (Gb) Ethernet transceiver.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the second abnormality detection system comprises: a transceiver configured to receive data from a communications bus and generate a plurality of electrical signals representing the data; a fingerprint module coupled to the transceiver, the fingerprint module configured to receive the plurality of electrical signals and generate a real-time fingerprint of components coupled to the communications bus; and a memory device coupled to the fingerprint module, the memory device configured to store a baseline fingerprint of the components coupled to the communications bus for comparison with the real-time fingerprint.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the fingerprint module comprises: a switch coupled to the transceiver, the switch configured to receive the plurality of electrical signals and select one electrical signal of the plurality of electrical signals; a track and hold component coupled to the switch, the track and hold component configured to receive the selected electrical signal and pause said selected electrical signal in time; a converter coupled to the track and hold component and the sequencer, the converter configured to sample the selected electrical signal; a serial peripheral interface (SPI) coupled to the sequencer and the converter, the SPI configured to transmit the sampled electrical signal; and a sequencer coupled to the transceiver, the track and hold component, and the switch, the sequencer configured to trigger each of the track and hold component and the converter to operate at a moment in time.
</claims>
</document>
