<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G06F17/18,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAJANANAN, KUGAMOORTHY
KATSUKI, TAKAYUKI
MASUDA, SATOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746005
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METRIC LEARNING PREDICTION OF SIMULATION PARAMETERS
</title>

<abstract>
Predicting simulation parameters is performed by obtaining a plurality of datasets, each dataset including simulation parameters, time series data and a label. Wherein the time series data represents a simulation status for each time and the label represents a simulation result. Learning a metric of the simulation parameters including two datasets of the plurality of datasets. Wherein the metric imitates the similarity of time series data of the two datasets, and training a model for predicting the label for simulation parameters by using the metric.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining a plurality of datasets, each dataset including simulation parameters, time series data and a label, wherein the time series data represents a simulation status for each time step and the label represents a simulation result; learning a metric of the simulation parameters of at least two datasets of the plurality of datasets, wherein the metric imitates the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets; and training a model for predicting the label for simulation parameters by using the metric.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the metric is calculated based on a difference of simulation parameters of the at least two datasets and a set of weights, and the learning updates the set of weights to imitate the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the model uses a Gaussian process with a radial basis function kernel based on the metric.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining new simulation parameters that maximize the label predicted by the model.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining new simulation parameters that minimize the label predicted by the model.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining new simulation parameters by selecting the new simulation parameters from at least two sets of candidate simulation parameters.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining new simulation parameters by using the model; performing a simulation for the new simulation parameters to obtain new time series data and a new label for the new simulation parameters; and adding a new dataset including the new simulation parameters, the new time series data and the new label to the plurality of datasets.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the simulation parameters represent initial parameters of at least two vehicles, and the time series data represents reacting results of the at least two vehicles during movements of the at least two vehicles.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the determining includes determining the new simulation parameters that cause the model to predict a label representing a multi-reacting collision.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the at least two vehicles include an automated driving vehicle, and the performing of the simulation includes simulating behaviors of the automated driving vehicle.
11. A computer program product including one or more computer readable storage mediums collectively storing program instructions that are executable by a processor or programmable circuitry to cause the processor or programmable circuitry to perform operations comprising: obtaining a plurality of datasets, each dataset including simulation parameters, time series data and a label, wherein the time series data represents a simulation status for each time step and the label represents a simulation result; learning a metric of the simulation parameters of at least two datasets of the plurality of datasets, wherein the metric imitates the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets; training a model for predicting the label for simulation parameters by using the metric.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the metric is calculated based on a difference of simulation parameters of the at least two datasets and a set of weights, and the learning updates the set of weights to imitate the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the model uses a Gaussian process with a radial basis function kernel based on the metric.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprising determining new simulation parameters that maximize the label predicted by the model.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprising: determining new simulation parameters by using the model; performing a simulation for the new simulation parameters to obtain new time series data and a new label for the new simulation parameters; and adding a new dataset including the new simulation parameters, the new time series data and the new label to the plurality of datasets.
16. An apparatus comprising: a processor or a programmable circuitry; and one or more computer readable mediums collectively including instructions that, when executed by the processor or the programmable circuitry, cause the processor or the programmable circuitry to: obtain a plurality of datasets, each dataset including simulation parameters, time series data and a label, wherein the time series data represents a simulation status for each time step and the label represents a simulation result; learn a metric of the simulation parameters of at least two datasets of the plurality of datasets, wherein the metric imitates the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets; train a model for predicting the label for simulation parameters by using the metric.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the metric is calculated based on a difference of simulation parameters of the at least two datasets and a set of weights, and the learning updates the set of weights to imitate the similarity of time series data of the at least two datasets.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the model uses a Gaussian process with a radial basis function kernel based on the metric.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processor or the programmable circuitry to determine the new simulation parameters that maximize the label predicted by the model.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the processor or the programmable circuitry to: determine new simulation parameters by using the model; perform a simulation for the new simulation parameters to obtain new time series data and a new label for the new simulation parameters; and add a new dataset including the new simulation parameters, the new time series data and the new label to the plurality of datasets.
</claims>
</document>
