<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP Holding Company LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEFEN, AVITAN
SAGI, OMER
SAVIR, AMIHAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016522
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACIAL RECOGNITION FOR MULTI-STREAM VIDEO USING HIGH PROBABILITY GROUP
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are provided for facial recognition using a high probability group database. One method comprises maintaining (i) a first database of facial images of individuals, and (ii) a second database of facial images comprising a subset of the individuals from the first database based on a probability of individuals appearing in sequences of image frames at a given time; applying a face detection algorithm to sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the sequences of images; and applying a facial recognition to at least one sequence of image frames using at least the second database to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames. The second database is comprised of facial images of: (i) individuals from multiple angles; (ii) individuals that appeared in prior image frames; and/or (iii) individuals that appeared in an image frame generated by a plurality of cameras.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: maintaining a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals; maintaining a second database of facial images comprising a subset of the individuals from the first database of images, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; obtaining the one or more sequences of image frames generated by one or more cameras; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of images; and applying a facial recognition to at least one sequence of image frames using at least the second database to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames, wherein the method is performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sequences of image frames are obtained from a plurality of streams of video images.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second database of facial images is stored in one or more of a local memory, a cache, an edge device, a cloud device and an Internet device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second database of facial images comprises a plurality of images of one or more individuals from a plurality of angles.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second database is comprised of facial images of one or more individuals that appeared in one or more prior image frames.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second database is comprised of facial images of one or more individuals that appeared in at least one image frame generated by a plurality of cameras.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second database is generated using facial tracking to track a face over time by comparing regions of a given image frame comprising a facial image to corresponding regions of one or more prior image frames.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to assign a name to a facial image in the new image frame if the facial image satisfies a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the second database.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein a new image frame is processed to add a facial image in the new image frame to the second database if the facial image does not satisfy a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the second database.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of matching one or more images of a face of an unnamed person in the second database to images of known faces in the first database to obtain a name of the unnamed person.
12. A computer program product, comprising a tangible machine-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by at least one processing device perform the following steps: maintaining a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals; maintaining a second database of facial images comprising a subset of the individuals from the first database of images, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; obtaining the one or more sequences of image frames generated by one or more cameras; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of images; and applying a facial recognition to at least one sequence of image frames using at least the second database to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the second database is comprised of facial images of one or more of: (i) one or more individuals from a plurality of angles; (ii) one or more individuals that appeared in one or more prior image frames; and (iii) one or more individuals that appeared in at least one image frame generated by a plurality of cameras.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein a new image frame is processed to assign a name to a facial image in the new image frame if the facial image satisfies a predefined similarity metric with a given face in the second database.
16. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising the step of matching one or more images of a face of an unnamed person in the second database to images of known faces in the first database to obtain a name of the unnamed person.
17. An apparatus, comprising: a memory; and at least one processing device, coupled to the memory, operative to implement the following steps: maintaining a first database of facial images of a plurality of individuals; maintaining a second database of facial images comprising a subset of the individuals from the first database of images, wherein the subset is obtained based on a probability of individuals appearing in one or more sequences of image frames at a given time; obtaining the one or more sequences of image frames generated by one or more cameras; applying a face detection algorithm to at least one of the sequences of image frames to identify one or more faces in the one or more sequences of images; and applying a facial recognition to at least one sequence of image frames using at least the second database to identify one or more individuals in the at least one sequence of image frames.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the second database is comprised of facial images of one or more of: (i) one or more individuals from a plurality of angles; (ii) one or more individuals that appeared in one or more prior image frames; and (iii) one or more individuals that appeared in at least one image frame generated by a plurality of cameras.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein a new image frame is processed to associate a face in the new image frame with a face that has previously been tracked if a facial image in the new image frame satisfies a predefined similarity metric with respect to the face that has previously been tracked.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising the step of matching one or more images of a face of an unnamed person in the second database to images of known faces in the first database to obtain a name of the unnamed person.
</claims>
</document>
