<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RELX
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEBENTHAL, DOUGLAS C.
LIU, CHRISTOPHER
Clinkenbeard, Richard
Saretto, Cesare John
Tracy, James
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663138
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ADAPTIVE TRAINING OF A MACHINE LEARNING SYSTEM PROCESSING TEXTUAL DATA
</title>

<abstract>
System and method for adaptive training of a machine learning system processing textual data. For example, a method for adaptive training of a machine learning system configured to predict answers to questions associated with textual data includes receiving predicted answers to questions associated with textual data. The predicted answers are generated based at least in part on one or more first models of a machine learning system. The one or more first models are associated with a first accuracy score. The method further includes determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required. In response to determining based at least in part on the quality control parameter that an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required, the questions associated with the textual data and the textual data are sent to the one or more external entities for evaluation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adaptive training of a machine learning system configured to predict answers to questions associated with textual data, the method comprising: receiving predicted answers to questions associated with textual data, the predicted answers being generated based at least in part on one or more first models of a machine learning system, the one or more first models being associated with a first accuracy score; determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required; in response to determining based at least in part on the quality control parameter that an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required, sending the questions associated with the textual data and the textual data to the one or more external entities for evaluation; receiving true answers to the questions from the one or more external entities; determining one or more accuracy parameters based at least in part on the true answers and the predicted answers; in response to the one or more accuracy parameters being smaller than a predetermined minimum threshold: identifying an accuracy degradation event; and increasing the quality control parameter; in response to a truth counter of at least one question being larger than a first predetermined truth threshold: generating one or more second models; and determining a second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models; and in response to the second accuracy score being larger than the first accuracy score associated with the one or more first models, replacing, at the machine learning system, the one or more first models with the one or more second models.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the quality control parameter indicates a number of required evaluations performed by the one or more external entities.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required includes increasing the number of required evaluations based at least in part on the determined one or more accuracy parameters.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the generating one or more second models includes training the one or more second models based at least in part on one or more combinations of truth data, the truth data including the true answers and the textual data associated with the true answers.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the one or more combinations of truth data include truth data generated after the accuracy degradation event is identified.
6. The method of claim 4 wherein the one or more combinations of truth data include truth data generated before and after the accuracy degradation event is identified.
7. The method of claim 4 wherein the determining a second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models includes determining accuracy scores for each model of the one or more second models based on the truth data.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the second accuracy score is larger than the first accuracy score if an accuracy score of each model of the one or more second models is larger than an accuracy score of each model of the one or more first models.
9. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: in response to the second accuracy score being smaller than or equal to the first accuracy score, waiting for the truth counter to increase further; and in response to the truth counter being larger than a second predetermined truth threshold: generating the one or more second models; and determining the second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models.
10. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required until the accuracy degradation event is cleared.
11. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: in response to the one or more accuracy parameters being equal to or larger than the predetermined minimum threshold, clearing the accuracy degradation event.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein the predicted answers to questions associated with textual data are received in response to a request or push event.
13. The method of claim 12, and further comprising: generating the quality control parameter based at least in part on one or more factors, the one or more factors including one or more static configuration parameters associated with the textual data, a current environment associated with the textual data, an identity of a requester associated with the request, a confidence associated with the predicted answers, and a request frequency.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein the receiving true answers to the questions from the one or more external entities includes evaluating the questions based on the textual data by the one or more external entities through a mechanical evaluation, a virtual evaluation, or a natural evaluation.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the questions based on the textual data are evaluated by the one or more external entities without knowledge of the predicted answers.
16. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: storing the determined one or more accuracy parameters in a storage for retrieval by the machine learning system.
17. The method of claim 16, and further comprising: storing an accuracy deviation in the storage for retrieval by the machine learning system, the accuracy deviation being equal to a difference of the one or more accuracy parameters and the predetermined minimum threshold.
18. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: in response to the accuracy degradation event being cleared: determining an evaluation number, the evaluation number indicating a number of evaluations performed by one or more external entities from a time when the accuracy degradation event is identified; and storing the evaluation number and the truth counter in a storage for retrieval by the machine learning system.
19. The method of claim 18, and further comprising: changing the first predetermined truth threshold based on the stored evaluation number.
20. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: in response to the identifying an accuracy degradation event, storing the truth counter in a storage for retrieval by the machine learning system.
21. The method of claim 1, and further comprising: increasing the predetermined minimum threshold in response to the first accuracy score increasing over time.
22. A system for adaptive training of a machine learning system configured to predict answers to questions associated with textual data, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions, the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, causing the system to perform: receiving predicted answers to questions associated with textual data, the predicted answers being generated based at least in part on one or more first models of a machine learning system, the one or more first models being associated with a first accuracy score; determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required; in response to determining based at least in part on the quality control parameter that an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required, sending the questions associated with the textual data and the textual data to the one or more external entities for evaluation; receiving true answers to the questions from the one or more external entities; determining one or more accuracy parameters based at least in part on the true answers and the predicted answers; in response to the one or more accuracy parameters being smaller than a predetermined minimum threshold: identifying an accuracy degradation event; and increasing the quality control parameter; in response to a truth counter of at least one question being larger than a first predetermined truth threshold: generating one or more second models; and determining a second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models; and in response to the second accuracy score being larger than the first accuracy score associated with the one or more first models, replacing, at the machine learning system, the one or more first models with the one or more second models.
23. The system of claim 22 wherein the quality control parameter indicates a number of required evaluations performed by the one or more external entities.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein the determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required includes increasing the number of required evaluations based at least in part on the determined one or more accuracy parameters.
25. The system of claim 22 wherein the generating one or more second models includes training the one or more second models based at least in part on one or more combinations of truth data, the truth data including the true answers and the textual data associated with the true answers.
26. The system of claim 25 wherein the one or more combinations of truth data include truth data generated after the accuracy degradation event is identified.
27. The system of claim 25 wherein the one or more combinations of truth data include truth data generated before and after the accuracy degradation event is identified.
28. The system of claim 25 wherein the determining a second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models includes determining accuracy scores for each model of the one or more second models based on the truth data.
29. The system of claim 22 wherein the second accuracy score is larger than the first accuracy score if an accuracy score of each model of the one or more second models is larger than an accuracy score of each model of the one or more first models.
30. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, when executed by one or more processors, causing a system for adaptive training of a machine learning system configured to predict answers to questions associated with textual data to perform: receiving predicted answers to questions associated with textual data, the predicted answers being generated based at least in part on one or more first models of a machine learning system, the one or more first models being associated with a first accuracy score; determining based at least in part on a quality control parameter whether an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required; in response to determining based at least in part on the quality control parameter that an evaluation of the questions by one or more external entities is required, sending the questions associated with the textual data and the textual data to the one or more external entities for evaluation; receiving true answers to the questions from the one or more external entities; determining one or more accuracy parameters based at least in part on the true answers and the predicted answers; in response to the one or more accuracy parameters being smaller than a predetermined minimum threshold: identifying an accuracy degradation event; and increasing the quality control parameter; in response to a truth counter of at least one question being larger than a first predetermined truth threshold: generating one or more second models; and determining a second accuracy score associated with the one or more second models; and in response to the second accuracy score being larger than the first accuracy score associated with the one or more first models, replacing, at the machine learning system, the one or more first models with the one or more second models.
</claims>
</document>
