<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STMICROELECTRONICS (ROUSSET)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEMAJ, PIERRE
FOLLIOT, LAURENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66542337
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROCESSING DATA THROUGH A NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A method can be used to process an initial set of data through a convolutional neural network that includes a convolution layer followed by a pooling layer. The initial set is stored in an initial memory along first and second orthogonal directions. The method includes performing a first filtering of the initial set of data by the convolution layer using a first sliding window along the first direction. Each slide of the first window produces a first set of data. The method also includes performing a second filtering of the first sets of data by the pooling layer using a second sliding window along the second direction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing an initial set of data through a convolutional neural network that includes a convolution layer followed by a pooling layer, the initial set being stored in an initial memory along first and second orthogonal directions, the method comprising: performing a first filtering of the initial set of data by the convolution layer using a first sliding window along the first direction, each slide of the first window producing a first set of data; and performing a second filtering of the first sets of data by the pooling layer using a second sliding window along the second direction.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the convolution layer comprises a plurality of convolution layers and the pooling layer comprises a plurality of pooling layers.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the initial set of data is stored in matrix fashion according to rows and columns, the rows extending along the first direction and the columns extending along the second direction, each individual row extending along the second direction and each individual column extending along the first direction.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the first sliding window slides by strides along the first direction and, at each stride, traverses the corresponding row.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first filtering and the second filtering follow one another until all the data of the initial set is processed.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the neural network comprises a non-linear layer between the convolution layer and the pooling layer.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the neural network is defined by parameters implemented in floating point or in fixed precision.
8. A method of processing an initial set of data through a convolutional neural network that includes a convolution layer followed by a pooling layer, the initial set being stored in an initial memory along first and second orthogonal directions, the method comprising: performing a first filtering of the initial set of data by the convolution layer using a first sliding window along the first direction, each slide of the first window producing a first set of data; performing a second filtering of the first sets of data by the pooling layer using a second sliding window along the second direction, wherein the second sliding window has a dimension N counted along the first direction, the first filtering comprising N−1 slides of the first sliding window along the first direction; and storing N first sets of data in a first temporary memory.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the second filtering comprises slides of the second sliding window, along the second direction, on the first temporary memory storing the N first sets of data, each slide producing a second set of data, the second filtering comprising a second storage of M second sets of data in a second temporary memory.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the storing comprises a circular filling of the first temporary memory by the first set of data produced at each slide of the first sliding window.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the second filtering is performed after a number of circular fillings of the first memory.
12. A device comprising: an initial memory configured to store an initial set of data along first and second orthogonal directions; a first memory configured to store parameters defining a convolutional neural network configured to process the initial set of data, the network comprising a convolution layer followed by a pooling layer; and a computation unit configured to perform the operations of the layers of the neural network, the convolution layer being configured to perform a first filtering of the initial set of the data using a first sliding window along the first direction so as to produce a first set of data at each slide, and the pooling layer being configured to perform a second filtering of the first sets of data using a second sliding window along the second direction.
13. The device according to claim 12, wherein the second sliding window has a dimension N counted along the first direction, the device comprising a processor configured to limit the slides of the first sliding window to N−1 slides along the first direction, the device further comprising a first temporary memory configured to store N first sets of data.
14. The device according to claim 13, wherein the initial set of data is stored in matrix fashion according to rows and columns, the rows extending along the first direction and the columns extending along the second direction, each individual row extending along the second direction and each individual column extending along the first direction.
15. The device according to claim 14, wherein the processor is configured to slide the first sliding window by strides along the first direction and to, at each stride, make the first sliding window traverse the corresponding row.
16. The device according to claim 13, wherein processor configured to slide the second sliding window along the second direction on the first temporary memory storing the N first sets of data, so as to produce a second set of data at each slide, the device further comprising a second temporary memory configured to store M second sets of data.
17. The device according to claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to perform a circular filling of the first temporary memory with the first sets of data produced during the slides of the first sliding window.
18. The device according to claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to perform the second filtering once the first memory has performed a number of circular fillings.
19. The device according to claim 13, wherein processor is configured to perform the first filtering and the second filtering successively until the processing of all the data of the initial set.
20. The device according to claim 12, wherein the neural network comprises a non-linear layer between the convolution layer and the pooling layer.
21. The device according to claim 12, wherein the neural network is defined by parameters implemented in floating point or in fixed precision.
22. The device according to claim 12, wherein the device is a microcontroller.
</claims>
</document>
