<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/0802,G06F3/06,G06N3/02,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NORLITECH
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAILLET, GUY
MENENDEZ, ANNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COGNITIVE STORAGE DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide a system comprising a non-volatile storage memory, a controller, and a cognitive memory. The storage memory can store data. During operation, the controller programs a function for the system based on a configuration file. The function indicates one or more operations for the data stored in the storage memory. The cognitive memory can include a set of neuron memory cells, which can store a knowledge base for facilitating the function and execute a pattern matching operation between the data stored in the storage memory and the data stored in the set of neuron memory cells. The controller can then execute the one or more operations within the system based on an output of the pattern matching operation from the cognitive memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a non-volatile storage memory configured to store data; a controller configured to program a function for the apparatus based on a configuration file, wherein the function indicates one or more operations for the data stored in the storage memory; and a cognitive memory comprising a set of neuron memory cells, wherein the set of neuron memory cells are configured to: store a knowledge base for facilitating the function; and execute a pattern matching operation between the data stored in the storage memory and data in the set of neuron memory cells; and wherein the controller is further configured to execute the one or more operations within the apparatus based on an output of the pattern matching operation from the cognitive memory.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a neuron memory cell in the set of neuron memory cells comprises: a recall memory configured to store a reference pattern indicated in the knowledge base; and triggering circuitry configured to determine a distance between an incoming pattern indicated in the pattern matching operation and the reference pattern.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein a respective committed neuron memory cell in the set of neuron memory cells receives the incoming pattern in parallel; and wherein the triggering circuitry is further configured to trigger the neuron memory cell in response to the distance being the smallest distance among a set of distances, which are associated with the incoming pattern and calculated by the set of neuron memory cells.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: select the configuration file based on a requirement of an application; and obtain the configuration file from the storage memory.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: obtain the knowledge base from a set of knowledge files stored in the storage memory; and load the knowledge files to the set of neuron memory cells to enable one or more models in the knowledge base to operate, wherein the one or more models correspond to the function.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller is a hardware module programmable based on the configuration file; and wherein the set of neuron memory cells are configured to establish one or more silicon neural networks for executing the pattern matching operation.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the function is content generation; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data stored in the storage memory; and analyze the piece of data in the cognitive memory based on the execution of the pattern matching operation; and wherein the controller is configured to generate a piece of content for the piece of data based on the analysis.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the function is selective retrieval; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data stored in the storage memory; and determine whether the piece of data is recognized by the cognitive memory; and wherein the controller is configured to determine whether to retrieve the piece of data from the storage memory based on the recognition.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the function is selective recording; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data received by the apparatus; and determine whether the piece of data is recognized by the cognitive memory; and wherein the controller is configured to determine whether to store the piece of data in the storage memory based on the recognition.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a non-volatile cache memory configured to temporarily store data for operations of the controller.
11. A storage device, comprising: a storage memory comprising a plurality of non-volatile memory cells; a cognitive memory comprising a set of neuron memory cells; and a controller comprising a programmable hardware module; wherein the storage memory is configured to store data; wherein the controller is configured to program a function for the storage device based on a configuration file, wherein the function indicates one or more operations for the data stored in the storage memory; wherein the set of neuron memory cells are configured to: store a knowledge base for facilitating the function; and execute a pattern matching operation between the data stored in the storage memory and data in the set of neuron memory cells; and wherein the controller is further configured to execute the one or more operations within the storage device based on an output of the pattern matching operation from the cognitive memory.
12. The storage device of claim 11, wherein a neuron memory cell in the set of neuron memory cells comprises: a recall memory configured to store a reference pattern indicated in the knowledge base; and triggering circuitry configured to determine a distance between an incoming pattern indicated in the pattern matching operation and the reference pattern.
13. The storage device of claim 12, wherein a respective committed neuron memory cell in the set of neuron memory cells receives the incoming pattern in parallel; and wherein the triggering circuitry is further configured to trigger the neuron memory cell in response to the distance being the closest distance among a set of distances, which are associated with the incoming pattern and calculated by the set of neuron memory cells.
14. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: select the configuration file based on a requirement of an application; and obtain the configuration file from the storage memory.
15. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: obtain the knowledge base from a set of knowledge files stored in the storage memory; and load the knowledge files to the set of neuron memory cells to enable one or more models in the knowledge base to operate, wherein the one or more models correspond to the function.
16. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the hardware module is programmable based on the configuration file; and wherein the set of neuron memory cells are configured to establish one or more silicon neural networks for executing the pattern matching operation.
17. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the function is content generation; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data stored in the storage memory; and analyze the piece of data in the cognitive memory based on the execution of the pattern matching operation; and wherein the controller is configured to generate a piece of content for the piece of data based on the analysis.
18. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the function is selective retrieval; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data stored in the storage memory; and determine whether the piece of data is recognized by the cognitive memory; and wherein the controller is configured to determine whether to retrieve the piece of data from the storage memory based on the recognition.
19. The storage device of claim 11, wherein the function is selective recording; wherein the cognitive memory is further configured to: execute the pattern matching operation based on a piece of data received by the storage device; and determine whether the piece of data is recognized by the cognitive memory; and wherein the controller is configured to determine whether to store the piece of data in the storage memory based on the recognition.
20. The storage device of claim 11, further comprising a non-volatile cache memory configured to temporarily store data for operations of the controller.
</claims>
</document>
