<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09G3/3233,G09G5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KANG SOO
CHO, JIWOONG
LEE, JONGHYUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123043
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE DISPLAY APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an image display apparatus. The image display apparatus includes: a display; an illumination sensor configured to sense ambient illumination of the display; and a signal processing unit configured to output an image-quality-processed image signal to the display, wherein the signal processing unit is configured to, based on information on the illumination sensed by the illumination sensor, convert gray level of an input image according to a first gray level conversion mode or according to a second gray level conversion mode in which an amount of increase in gray level is greater than in the first gray level conversion mode. Accordingly, it is possible to improve gray level expression of a displayed image in response to ambient illumination of the display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image display apparatus comprising: a display; an illumination sensor configured to detect ambient illumination at the display; and a signal processing unit configured to output an image-quality-processed image signal to the display and to convert gray level of an input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor, wherein the gray level is converted according to a first gray level conversion mode or a second gray level conversion mode in which an amount of increase in the gray level is greater than in the first gray level conversion mode.
2. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to change the amount of increase in the gray level based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
3. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to increase the amount of increase in the gray level in accordance to an increase in the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
4. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: convert the gray level according to the first gray level conversion mode when a level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is lower than a first level; and convert the gray level according to the second gray level conversion mode when the level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is equal to or higher than the first level.
5. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: analyze the input image; and change the amount of increase in the gray level in response to an average picture level or a peak picture level of the analyzed input image.
6. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: analyze the input image; and decrease the amount of increase in the gray level in accordance to an increase in an average picture level or a peak picture level of the analyzed input image.
7. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to convert the gray level of the input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor when a size of a black area in the input image is equal to or greater than a reference size, wherein the gray level is converted according to the first gray level conversion mode or the second gray level conversion mode.
8. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: perform high dynamic range signal processing on the input image based on the first gray level conversion mode; and after the first gray level conversion mode, selectively convert the gray level using the second gray level conversion mode based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
9. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit comprises: an image analyzer configured to analyze the input image using a Deep Neural Network (DNN); and an image quality processing unit configured to convert the gray level of the input image based on information on the analyzed input image and the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor, wherein the gray level is converted according to an implementation of the first gray level conversion mode or to the second gray level conversion mode.
10. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to display an object indicating whether to change a gray level conversion mode for the input image in response to the ambient illumination at the display.
11. The image display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to perform a gray level conversion mode for the input image when an item for changing a gray level conversion mode is selected in an image setting menu, wherein the gray level conversion mode corresponds to the first gray level conversion mode or the second gray level conversion mode.
12. An image display apparatus comprising: a display; an illumination sensor configured to detect ambient illumination at the display; and a signal processing unit configured to output an image-quality-processed image signal to the display, analyze an input image and change a gray level conversion mode for the input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
13. The image display apparatus of claim 12, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to convert a gray level of the input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor, wherein the gray level is converted according to an implementation of a first gray level conversion mode or a second gray level conversion mode in which an amount of increase in the gray level is greater than in the first gray level conversion mode.
14. The image display apparatus of claim 13, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to increase the amount of increase in the gray level in accordance to an increase in the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
15. The image display apparatus of claim 13, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: convert the gray level of the input image according to an implementation of the first gray level conversion mode when a level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is lower than a first level; and convert the gray level of the input image according to an implementation of the second gray level conversion mode when the level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is equal to or higher than the first level.
16. An image display apparatus comprising: a display; an illumination sensor configured to detect ambient illumination at the display; and a signal processing unit configured to output an image-quality-processed image signal to the display and change a gray level conversion mode for an input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor when an item for changing a gray level conversion mode for an input image is selected in an image setting menu, wherein the gray level conversion mode is changed in response to the ambient illumination at the display.
17. The image display apparatus of claim 16, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to convert a gray level of the input image based on the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor according to an implementation of a first gray level conversion mode or a second gray level conversion mode in which an amount of increase in gray level is greater than in the first gray level conversion mode.
18. The image display apparatus of claim 17, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to increase the amount of increase in gray level in accordance to an increase in the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor.
19. The image display apparatus of claim 17, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: convert the gray level of the input image according to an implementation of the first gray level conversion mode when a level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is lower than a first level; and convert the gray level of the input image according to an implementation of the second gray level conversion mode when the level of the ambient illumination detected by the illumination sensor is equal to or higher than the first level.
20. The image display apparatus of claim 17, wherein the signal processing unit is further configured to: analyze the input image; and change the amount of increase in the gray level in response to an average picture level or a peak picture level of the analyzed input image.
</claims>
</document>
