<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/16,G06F16/22,G06F16/23,G06F16/242,G06F16/25,G06F3/06,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNOWFLAKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRUANES, THIERRY
CSERI, ISTVAN
DAGEVILLE, BENOIT
GRABS, TORSTEN
MURALIDHAR, SUBRAMANIAN
SHAH, SAURIN
Shingte, Nileema
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72829438
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Maintenance of External Tables in Database Systems
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and devices for automated maintenance of external tables in database systems are disclosed. A method includes receiving, by a database platform, read access to content in an external data storage platform that is separate from the database platform. The method includes defining an external table based on the content in the external data storage platform. The method includes connecting the database platform to the external table such that the database platform has read access for the external table and does not have write access for the external table. The method includes generating metadata for the external table, the metadata comprising information about data stored in the external table. The method includes receiving a notification that a modification has been made to the content in the external data storage platform, the modification comprising one or more of an addition of a file, a deletion of a file, or an update to a file in a source location for the external table. The method includes refreshing the metadata for the external table in response to the modification being made to the content in the external data storage platform.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: means for defining, by a database platform, an external table based on content that is stored in an external data storage platform that is separate from the database platform, the database platform not having write access to the external table; means for generating metadata for the external table, the metadata comprising information about data stored in the external table; means for receiving a notification that a modification has been made to the content; and means for refreshing the metadata for the external table in response to the modification being made to the content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the means for generating the metadata comprises one or more of: means for defining cumulative table metadata for the external table; means for defining a grouping expression property for a grouping of partitions in the external table; means for defining an expression property for a partition of the external table; means for defining partition statistics for a partition of the external table; and means for defining a column expression property for a column of a partition of the external table.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for storing the metadata in a partition storage object on a shared storage platform associated with the database platform, wherein the shared storage platform is separate from the external data storage platform.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising one or more of: means for refreshing the metadata at threshold time periods; means for refreshing the metadata in response to a threshold number of modifications being made to the content; and means for refreshing the metadata in response to a request to refresh the metadata.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising means for reading multiple different file formats in the content in the external data storage platform.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the means for receiving the notification that the modification has been made to the content comprises one or more of: means for querying the external data storage platform to determine whether any modifications have been made to the content; means for receiving the notification from the external data storage platform; and means for receiving the notification from a client associated with the content.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the means for defining the external table based on the content comprises: means for receiving an indication of a hierarchical structure of the content in the external data storage platform, the hierarchical structure defining folders and subfolders; means for receiving an indication of a partitioning structure for the content in the external data storage platform; and means for defining partitions in the external table based on where files are uploaded within the hierarchical structure and further based on the partitioning structure.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the means for defining the partitions in the external table comprises: means for generating metadata for the partitions in the external table; and means for pointing the metadata to the appropriate folders and subfolders of the hierarchical structure.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the means for receiving the notification comprises means for receiving a notification that a certain subfolder within the hierarchical structure has been modified.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising: means for identifying a certain partition in the external table that corresponds with the certain subfolder; and means for generating change tracking metadata for the certain partition, the change tracking metadata indicating how the certain subfolder was modified and when the certain subfolder was modified.
11. A method comprising: defining, by a database platform, an external table based on content that is stored in an external data storage platform that is separate from the database platform, the database platform not having write access to the external table; generating metadata for the external table, the metadata comprising information about data stored in the external table; receiving a notification that a modification has been made to the content; and refreshing the metadata for the external table in response to the modification being made to the content.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the metadata comprises one or more of: defining cumulative table metadata for the external table; defining a grouping expression property for a grouping of partitions in the external table; defining an expression property for a partition of the external table; defining partition statistics for a partition of the external table; and defining a column expression property for a column of a partition of the external able.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing the metadata in a partition storage object on a shared storage platform associated with the database platform, wherein the shared storage platform is separate from the external data storage platform.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising one or more of: refreshing the metadata at threshold time periods; refreshing the metadata in response to a threshold number of modifications being made to the content; and refreshing the metadata in response to a request to refresh the metadata.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising reading multiple different file formats in the content in the external data storage platform.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein receiving the notification that the modification has been made to the content comprises one or more of: querying the external data storage platform to determine whether any modifications have been made to the content; receiving the notification from the external data storage platform; and receiving the notification from a client associated with the content.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein defining the external table based on the content comprises: receiving an indication of a hierarchical structure of the content in the external data storage platform, the hierarchical structure defining folders and subfolders; receiving an indication of a partitioning structure for the content in the external data storage platform; and defining partitions in the external table based on where files are uploaded within the hierarchical structure and further based on the partitioning structure.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein defining the partitions in the external table comprises: generating metadata for the partitions in the external table; and pointing the metadata to the appropriate folders and subfolders of the hierarchical structure.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein receiving the notification comprises receiving a notification that a certain subfolder within the hierarchical structure has been modified.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: identifying a certain partition in the external table that corresponds with the certain subfolder; and generating change tracking metadata for the certain partition, the change tracking metadata indicating how the certain subfolder was modified and when the certain subfolder was modified.
21. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: defining, by a database platform, an external table based on content that is stored in an external data storage platform that is separate from the database platform, the database platform not having write access to the external table; generating metadata for the external table, the metadata comprising information about data stored in the external table; receiving a notification that a modification has been made to the content; and refreshing the metadata for the external table in response to the modification being made to the content.
22. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, wherein generating the metadata comprises one or more of: defining cumulative table metadata for the external table; defining a grouping expression property for a grouping of partitions in the external table; defining an expression property for a partition of the external table; defining partition statistics for a partition of the external table; and defining a column expression property for a column of a partition of the external table.
23. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise storing the metadata in a partition storage object on a shared storage platform associated with the database platform, wherein the shared storage platform is separate from the external data storage platform.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, further comprising one or more of: refreshing the metadata at threshold time periods; refreshing the metadata in response to a threshold number of modifications being made to the content; and refreshing the metadata in response to a request to refresh the metadata.
25. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, wherein defining the external table based on the content comprises: receiving an indication of a hierarchical structure of the content in the external data storage platform, the hierarchical structure defining folders and subfolders; receiving an indication of a partitioning structure for the content in the external data storage platform; and defining partitions in the external table based on where files are uploaded within the hierarchical structure and further based on the partitioning structure.
26. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, the operations further comprising reading multiple different file formats in the content in the external data storage platform.
27. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, wherein receiving the notification that the modification has been made to the content comprises one or more of: querying the external data storage platform to determine whether any modifications have been made to the content; receiving the notification from the external data storage platform; and receiving the notification from a client associated with the content.
28. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 27, wherein defining the partitions in the external table comprises: generating metadata for the partitions in the external table; and pointing the metadata to the appropriate folders and subfolders of the hierarchical structure.
29. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 28, wherein receiving the notification comprises receiving a notification that a certain subfolder within the hierarchical structure has been modified.
30. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 29, further comprising: identifying a certain partition in the external table that corresponds with the certain subfolder; and generating change tracking metadata for the certain partition, the change tracking metadata indicating how the certain subfolder was modified and when the certain subfolder as modified.
31. A database platform comprising: at least one processor; and one or more non-transitory computer readable storage media containing instructions executable by the at least one processor for causing the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: defining an external table based on content that is stored in an external data storage platform that is separate from the database platform, the database platform not having write access to the external table; generating metadata for the external table, the metadata comprising information about data stored in the external table; receiving a notification that a modification has been made to the content; and refreshing the metadata for the external table in response to the modification being made to the content.
32. The database platform of claim 31, wherein generating the metadata comprises one or more of: defining cumulative table metadata for the external table; defining a grouping expression property for a grouping of partitions in the external table; defining an expression property for a partition of the external table; defining partition statistics for a partition of the external table; and defining a column expression property for a column of a partition of the external table.
33. The database platform of claim 31, further comprising storing the metadata in a partition storage object on a shared storage platform associated with the database platform, wherein the shared storage platform is separate from the external data storage platform.
34. The database platform of claim 31, further comprising one or more of: refreshing the metadata at threshold time periods; refreshing the metadata in response to a threshold number of modifications being made to the content; and refreshing the metadata in response to a request to refresh the metadata.
35. The database platform of claim 31, further comprising reading multiple different file formats in the content in the external data storage platform.
36. The database platform of claim 31, wherein receiving the notification that the modification has been made to the content comprises one or more of: querying the external data storage platform to determine whether any modifications have been made to the content; receiving the notification from the external data storage platform; and receiving the notification from a client associated with the content.
37. The database platform of claim 31, wherein defining the external table based on the content comprises: receiving an indication of a hierarchical structure of the content in the external data storage platform, the hierarchical structure defining folders and subfolders; receiving an indication of a partitioning structure for the content in the external data storage platform; and defining partitions in the external table based on where files are uploaded within the hierarchical structure and further based on the partitioning structure.
38. The database platform of claim 37, wherein defining the partitions in the external table comprises: generating metadata for the partitions in the external table; and pointing the metadata to the appropriate folders and subfolders of the hierarchical structure.
39. The database platform of claim 38, wherein receiving the notification comprises receiving a notification that a certain subfolder within the hierarchical structure has been modified.
40. The database platform of claim 39, further comprising: identifying a certain partition in the external table that corresponds with the certain subfolder; and generating change tracking metadata for the certain partition, the change tracking metadata indicating how the certain subfolder was modified and when the certain subfolder was modified.
41. The database platform of claim 31, the modification comprising one or more of an addition of a file, a deletion of a file, and an update to a file in a source location of the external table on the external data storage platform.
42. The system of claim 1, the modification comprising one or more of an addition of a file, a deletion of a file, and an update to a file in a source location of the external table on the external data storage platform.
43. The method of claim 11, the modification comprising one or more of an addition of a file, a deletion of a file, and an update to a file in a source location of the external table on the external data storage platform.
44. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 21, the modification comprising one or more of an addition of a file, a deletion of a file, and an update to a file in a source location of the external table on the external data storage platform.
</claims>
</document>
