<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,B60W30/095,B60W30/18,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MIAO, JINGHAO
PAN, JIACHENG
SUN, HONGYI
XU, KECHENG
ZHANG, YAJIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047091
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETERMINING EXITING INTERSECTION OF MOVING OBJECTS FOR AUTONOMOUS DRIVING VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
A moving object such as a vehicle is identified within an intersection having multiple exits. The moving object and the intersection and its exits may be identified based on sensor data obtained from various sensors mounted on an ADV. An exit coordinate map is generated based on the orientation of the moving object and a relative position of each of the exits of the intersection with respect to the current position of the moving object. For each of the exits, an exit probability of the exit that the moving object likely exits the intersection using the exit coordinate map. Thereafter, a trajectory of the ADV is planned to navigate through the intersection to avoid the collision with the moving object based on the exit probabilities of the exits of the intersection. The above process is iteratively performed for each of the moving objects detected within the proximity of the intersection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the method comprising: identifying a moving object within a proximity of an intersection and a plurality of exits of the intersection based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors of the ADV; generating an exit coordinate map based on an orientation of the moving object and a relative position of each of the exits with respect to a current position of the moving object; for each of the exits, determining an exit probability of the exit that the moving object likely exits the intersection using the exit coordinate map; and planning a trajectory to control the ADV to navigate through the intersection to avoid a collision with the moving object based on the exit probabilities of the exits of the intersection.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the exit coordinate map comprises an exit vector for each of the exits relative to a heading direction of the moving object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each exit vector represents an exit lane direction of a corresponding exit of the intersection relative to the moving direction of the moving object.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein an origin of the exit coordinate map corresponds to a current location of the moving object, and wherein an axis of the exit coordinate map corresponds to the heading direction of the moving object.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: projecting the exit coordinate map onto a plurality of regions with respect to the current position of the moving object; and calculating a probability for each of the regions based on the exit vectors in view of the current position of the moving object.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising selecting an exit vector associated with one of the regions that has a highest probability as an exit that the moving object most likely exits the intersection.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining an exit probability for each of the exits comprises applying an exit predictive model to the exit coordinate map and a set of features extracted from the sensor data representing the intersection to produce the exit probability for each of the exit.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the exit probability of each exit of the intersection is determined based on relative headings of the corresponding exit and the moving object in view of a current speed of the moving object.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: identifying a moving object within a proximity of an intersection and a plurality of exits of the intersection based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors of the ADV; generating an exit coordinate map based on an orientation of the moving object and a relative position of each of the exits with respect to a current position of the moving object; for each of the exits, determining an exit probability of the exit that the moving object likely exits the intersection using the exit coordinate map; and planning a trajectory to control the ADV to navigate through the intersection to avoid a collision with the moving object based on the exit probabilities of the exits of the intersection.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the exit coordinate map comprises an exit vector for each of the exits relative to a heading direction of the moving object.
11. The machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein each exit vector represents an exit lane direction of a corresponding exit of the intersection relative to the moving direction of the moving object.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein an origin of the exit coordinate map corresponds to a current location of the moving object, and wherein an axis of the exit coordinate map corresponds to the heading direction of the moving object.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: projecting the exit coordinate map onto a plurality of regions with respect to the current position of the moving object; and calculating a probability for each of the regions based on the exit vectors in view of the current position of the moving object.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise selecting an exit vector associated with one of the regions that has a highest probability as an exit that the moving object most likely exits the intersection.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein determining an exit probability for each of the exits comprises applying an exit predictive model to the exit coordinate map and a set of features extracted from the sensor data representing the intersection to produce the exit probability for each of the exit.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the exit probability of each exit of the intersection is determined based on relative headings of the corresponding exit and the moving object in view of a current speed of the moving object.
17. A data processing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations including identifying a moving object within a proximity of an intersection and a plurality of exits of the intersection based on sensor data obtained from a plurality of sensors of the ADV, generating an exit coordinate map based on an orientation of the moving object and a relative position of each of the exits with respect to a current position of the moving object, for each of the exits, determining an exit probability of the exit that the moving object likely exits the intersection using the exit coordinate map, and planning a trajectory to control the ADV to navigate through the intersection to avoid a collision with the moving object based on the exit probabilities of the exits of the intersection.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the exit coordinate map comprises an exit vector for each of the exits relative to a heading direction of the moving object.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein each exit vector represents an exit lane direction of a corresponding exit of the intersection relative to the moving direction of the moving object.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein an origin of the exit coordinate map corresponds to a current location of the moving object, and wherein an axis of the exit coordinate map corresponds to the heading direction of the moving object.
</claims>
</document>
