<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,H01L21/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOKYO ELECTRON
</assignee>

<inventors>
SMITH, JEFFREY
RALEY, ANGELIQUE
TAPILY, KANDABARA
CLARK, ROBERT
ZHAO, QIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67983243
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-AWARE AND CORRECTING HETEROGENOUS PLATFORM INCORPORATING INTEGRATED SEMICONDUCTOR PROCESSING MODULES AND METHOD FOR USING SAME
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to a high volume manufacturing system for processing and measuring workpieces in a semiconductor processing sequence without leaving the system's controlled environment (e.g., sub-atmospheric pressure). The system includes an active interdiction control system to implement corrective processing within the system when a non-conformity is detected. The corrective processing can include a remedial process sequence to correct the non-conformity or compensate for the non-conformity during subsequent process. The non-conformity may be associated with fabrication measurement data, process parameter data, and/or platform performance data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A manufacturing platform for processing a workpiece for the fabrication of electronic devices thereon, the processing system comprising, comprising: a plurality of processing modules hosted on a common manufacturing platform, the processing modules configured for manipulating materials on a workpiece in processing steps as part of a processing sequence; the plurality of processing modules including a first module and a second module, the first and second modules facilitating different processes in the process sequence; at least one measurement module hosted on the common manufacturing platform, the measurement module including an inspection system operable for measuring data associated with an attribute of the workpiece at least one of before or after the workpiece is processed in a processing module of the common manufacturing platform; at least one workpiece transfer module hosted on the common manufacturing platform and configured for the movement of the workpiece between the processing modules and the at least one measurement module; an active interdiction control system hosted at least in part on the common manufacturing platform and coupled with the measurement module, the active interdiction control system configured for processing the measured data associated with an attribute on the workpiece for detecting non-conformities and configured to perform corrective processing of the workpiece at least in part in a processing module upstream and/or downstream in the process sequence when non-conformities are detected; the active interdiction control system further configured for controlling movement and processing of the workpiece in the processing sequence; the common manufacturing platform, the processing modules, and the measurement module operating in a controlled environment, and the workpiece transfer module configured for transferring the workpiece between the plurality of processing modules in the processing sequence and the measurement module without leaving the controlled environment.
2. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the first module is a film-forming module, and the second module is an etch module.
3. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the active interdiction control system includes a pattern recognition component to extract and classify data patterns from the measured data, and predict the existence of a non-conformity.
4. The manufacturing platform of claim 3, wherein the pattern recognition component comprises a deep learning architecture.
5. The manufacturing platform of claim 4, wherein the pattern recognition component correlates an extracted data pattern with a learned attribute on the workpiece.
6. The manufacturing platform of claim 5, wherein the learned attribute includes a defect on the workpiece.
7. The manufacturing platform of claim 6, wherein the defect includes an out-of-tolerance condition for an attribute, the attribute including a thickness, a critical dimension, a surface roughness, a film or surface composition, a feature profile, a pattern edge placement, a void, a loss of selectivity, a measure of non-uniformity, or a loading effect, or any combination of two or more thereof.
8. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the active interdiction control system further includes a display component to show a region of the workpiece where the non-conformity exists.
9. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the active interdiction control system includes a correlation component to predict the existence of a non-conformity based upon a correlation of measured data at two or more locations on the workpiece.
10. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the active interdiction control system includes an autonomous learning component that receives the measured data and generates knowledge based, at least in part, on (i) characterizes the measured data and performance of the process sequence, and (ii) decides an action plan to correct the process sequence in the event the non-conformity exists.
11. The manufacturing platform of claim 10, wherein the autonomous learning component executes at least one of supervised learning, clustering, dimensionality reduction, structured prediction, anomaly detection, or reinforcement learning, or any combination of two or more thereof.
12. The manufacturing platform of claim 1, wherein the active interdiction control system comprises: an interaction component that receives the measured data, the interaction component including an adaptor component that packages the measured data and conveys packaged data; an autonomous learning component that receives the packaged data and generates a knowledge that characterizes the packaged data and performance of the process sequence.
13. The manufacturing platform of claim 12, wherein the autonomous learning component includes: a processing platform that processes the packaged data, the processing platform includes a set of functional units that operate on the packaged data, wherein the set of functional units comprise: an adaptive inference engine that analyzes the packaged data and infers an action to perform based at least in part on a process goal for the process sequence; and a goal component that evolves the process goal based at least in part on one of data or a context change; and a memory platform that stores the knowledge, the memory platform includes a hierarchy of memories that includes a long term memory, a short term memory, and an episodic memory, wherein the long term memory stores a set of concepts that includes at least one of an entity, a relationship, or a procedure, and wherein a concept in the set of concepts includes a first numeric attribute that indicates relevance of a concept to a current state of the process sequence, and a second numeric attribute that indicates a degree of difficulty to use the concept.
14. The manufacturing platform of claim 13, wherein the interactive component further receives module diagnostic data from one or more of the plurality of the processing modules, and packages the module diagnostic data with the measured data when preparing the packaged data.
15. The manufacturing platform of claim 13 wherein the interaction component further comprises an interaction manager that facilitates data exchange with an external actor.
16. The manufacturing platform of claim 15, wherein at least one of packaged data or the data exchanged with the external actor includes training data.
17. The manufacturing platform of 16, wherein the training data further includes at least one of an identification of a module process or variable associated with the task, a functional relationship among two or more module processes or variables associated with the task, a causal graph that includes a set of a priori probabilities associated with a set of module processes or variables related to the task and present in the causal graph and a set of conditional probabilities that relate one or more module processes or variables related to the task and present in the causal graph, or a set of parameters that describe a behavior of the process sequence.
</claims>
</document>
