<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01D3/14,B01D3/42,G01N30/02,G06G7/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSAL OIL PRODUCTS COMPANY (UOP)
</assignee>

<inventors>
OHACO, RAUL A.
CHARR, JORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052550
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
High Purity Distillation Process Control
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatuses for modifying plant operating conditions for production of a product based on composition measurements associated with a distillation column. A control device may receive one or more composition measurements from a composition measurement device. The measurements may be associated with a distillation column of the plant. Based on the measurements, the control device may determine control instructions, e.g., using a history of control instructions. The plant may, based on the control decisions, interpret and implement the instructions. For example, the fuel flow to a burner or flow rate of a nozzle may be modified.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a control device comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions; and a plant comprising: a distillation column; and a computing device configured to manage production of a product using the distillation column; wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the control device to: determine control conditions for the plant, wherein the control conditions correspond to operating conditions of the plant; receive, via a network, one or more measurements from a composition measurement device associated with the plant, wherein the measurements indicate a composition of a substance associated with the distillation column; determine, based on the one or more measurements and using the control conditions, a control instruction for the plant; and transmit the control instruction to the computing device; and wherein the computing device is configured to: adjust, based on the control instruction, production of the product using the distillation column.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the composition measurement device measures gas associated with a vapor space of the distillation column.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the control device to: receive, from one or more sensors associated with the plant, plant data, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on the plant data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the composition measurement device is a gas chromatograph analyzer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the control device to: receive, from a second composition measurement device located at a process regulatory control portion of the distillation column, one or more second measurements associated with the distillation column, wherein the control instruction is further based on the one or more second measurements.
6. A method comprising: determining, by a computing device, control conditions for a plant comprising a distillation column, wherein the control conditions correspond to operating conditions of the plant; receiving, via a network, one or more measurements from a composition measurement device associated with the plant, wherein the measurements indicate a composition of a substance associated with the distillation column; determining, by the computing device, based on the one or more measurements, and using the control conditions, a control instruction for the plant; and causing adjusting, based on the control instruction, of equipment associated with the distillation column.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the composition measurement device measures gas associated with a vapor space of the distillation column.
8. The method of claim 6, comprising: adjusting the control instruction based on a history of control instructions determined by the computing device.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving, from one or more sensors associated with the plant, plant data, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on the plant data.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the composition measurement device is a gas chromatograph analyzer.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the machine learning algorithm is an unsupervised machine learning algorithm, and wherein the machine learning algorithm is configured to determine control instructions based on plant yield.
12. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving, from a second composition measurement device, one or more second measurements associated with the distillation column, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on the one or more second measurements.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second composition measurement device is located at a process regulatory control portion of the distillation column.
14. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the control instruction comprises: simulating, by the computing device and based on the one or more measurements, the plant.
15. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: determine control conditions for a plant comprising a distillation column, wherein the control conditions correspond to operating conditions of the plant; receive, via a network, one or more measurements from a composition measurement device associated with the plant, wherein the measurements indicate a composition of a substance associated with the distillation column; determine, based on the one or more measurements and using the control conditions, a control instruction for the plant; and causing adjusting, based on the control instruction, of equipment associated with the distillation column.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the composition measurement device measures gas associated with a vapor space of the distillation column.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on a history of control instructions.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: receive, from one or more sensors associated with the plant, plant data, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on the plant data.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the composition measurement device is a gas chromatograph analyzer.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: receive, from a second composition measurement device located at a process regulatory control portion of the distillation column, one or more second measurements associated with the distillation column, wherein determining the control instruction for the plant is further based on the one or more second measurements.
</claims>
</document>
