<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/29,G01N33/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSENLIX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, STEPHEN
DING WEI
ZHANG, YUFAN
LI, JI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67395062
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSAYING CELLS AND NON-CELL ANALYTES IN A SAMPLE IN PARALLEL
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, the present invention is related to bio/chemical sampling, sensing, assays and applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for assaying a target cell and a non-cell analyte in a liquid sample, comprising: a first plate, a second plate, a plurality of spacers, a plurality of particles, and a capture agent, wherein: f) the first and second plates are movable relative to each other into different configurations, including an open configuration and a closed configuration; g) each of the plates has, on its respective surface, a sample contact area for contacting a sample that contains or is suspected of containing one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte; h) the spacers comprises a periodic array of pillars that have a uniform height, and are fixed on the first plate; i) the particles have a size of 0.2 um to 100 um and are, in an open configuration, randomly distributed in the sample contact area of the first plate; and j) a capture agent is attached on the particles, wherein the capture agent specifically binds the non-cell analyte, wherein the non-cell analyte is capable of binding an optical label forming a labeled non-cell analyte; wherein an open configuration is the configuration, in which: the two plates are separated apart, and the sample is deposited on one or both plate; wherein a closed configuration is the configuration which is configured after the sample deposition in the open configuration; and in the closed configuration: a relevant sample volume is compressed by the two plates into a layer of substantially uniform thickness and is substantially stagnant relative to the plates, and the uniform thickness of the layer is confined by the plates and is regulated by the plates and the spacers; wherein a relevant sample volume of the sample was analyzed for assaying the non-cell analyte and the target cells; and wherein the uniform thickness and the geometry of the particles are configured to make, in the closed configuration, there are no significant overlaps between the one or more target cells, between the particles, and between the target cells and the particles.
2. A device for assaying a target cell and a non-cell analyte in a liquid sample, comprising: a first plate, a second plate, a plurality of spacers, a plurality of particles, and a capture agent, wherein: f) the first and second plates are movable relative to each other into different configurations, including an open configuration and a closed configuration; g) each of the plates has, on its respective surface, a sample contact area for contacting a sample that contains or is suspect to containing one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte; h) the spacers comprises an array of pillars that have a uniform height of 150 um or less, and are fixed on the first plate; i) the particles have a size of 0.2 um to 100 um and are, in an open configuration, randomly distributed in the sample contact area of the first plate; and j) a capture agent is attached on the particles, wherein the capture agent specifically binds the non-cell analyte, wherein the non-cell analyte is capable of binding an optical label forming a labeled non-cell analyte; wherein an open configuration is the configuration, in which: the two plates are separated apart, and the sample is deposited on one or both plate; wherein a closed configuration is the configuration which is configured after the sample deposition in the open configuration; and in the closed configuration: at least part of the sample is compressed by the two plates into a layer of substantially uniform thickness and is substantially stagnant relative to the plates; and wherein the uniform thickness and the geometry of the particles are configured to make, in the closed configuration, there are no significant overlaps between the one or more target cells, between the particles, and between the target cells and the particles, and the uniform thickness of the layer is confined by the plates and is regulated by the plates and the spacers; and wherein the relevant sample volume is a portion or entire volume of the sample, wherein the relevant sample volume is analyzed for assaying the non-cell analyte and the target cells, wherein the number of the particles in the relevant sample volume are configured to be, in a closed configuration, at least 10.
3. An apparatus for assaying a target cell and a non-cell analyte in a liquid sample, comprising: a first plate, a second plate, a plurality of spacers, a plurality of particles, a capture agent, an imager, and a processor, wherein: h) the first and second plates are movable relative to each other into different configurations, including an open configuration and a closed configuration; i) each of the plates has, on its respective surface, a sample contact area for contacting a sample that contains one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte; j) the particles have a size of 0.2 um to 100 um and are, in a closed configuration, randomly distributed in the sample; k) the spacers comprises an array of pillars that have a uniform height of 150 um or less, and are fixed on the first plate; l) the capture agent is attached on the particles, wherein the capture agent specifically binds the non-cell analyte, wherein the non-cell analyte is capable of binding an optical label forming a labeled non-cell analyte; m) the imager takes at least one image of a relevant sample volume; n) the processor is configured to process the at least one image to (i) detect the non-cell analyte by analyzing the images of at least 10 particles, and (ii) detect the target cell analyte; wherein an open configuration is the configuration, in which: the two plates are separated apart, and the sample is deposited on one or both plate; wherein a closed configuration is the configuration which is configured after the sample deposition in the open configuration; and in the closed configuration: a relevant sample volume is compressed by the two plates into a layer of substantially uniform thickness and is substantially stagnant relative to the plates, and the uniform thickness of the layer is confined by the plates and is regulated by the plates and the spacers; wherein the uniform thickness and the geometry of the particles are configured to make, in the closed configuration, there are no significant overlaps between the one or more target cells, between the particles, and between the target cells and the particles; and wherein the relevant sample volume is a portion or entire volume of the sample, and wherein the number of the particles in the relevant sample volume are configured to be, in a closed configuration, at least 10; wherein the processor is configured to process the at least one image to (i) detect the non-cell analyte by analyzing the images of at least 10 particles, and (ii) detect the target cell analyte.
4. The device of any prior claim, wherein the spacers are a periodic array.
5. The device of any prior claim, wherein the uniform height of the spacers is at least about 0.8 times the particle diameter.
6. The device of any prior claim, wherein the uniform height of the one or more spacers is between at least about 0.8 times the particle diameter and about 200 um.
7. The device of any device claim, further comprising an imager for obtaining an image of a relevant sample volume of the sample.
8. The device of any prior claim, wherein the relevant sample volume is a portion or entire volume of the at least part of the sample, and wherein the number of the particles in the relevant sample volume are configured to be, in a closed configuration, at least 10.
9. The device of any prior claim, further comprising a processor for processing the image.
10. The device of any prior claim, wherein the processing comprises at least one of (i) detecting the non-cell analyte by analyzing one or more images of at least 10 particles, and (ii) detecting the target cell analyte.
11. A device comprising: a. a first plate; b. a second plate having a sample contact area on a surface thereof; wherein the first plate and the second plate are movable relative to each other into: i. an open configuration in which the first plate and the second plate are at least partially separated such that a sample containing one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte can be deposited therebetween, and ii. a closed configuration in which the first plate is placed on top of the second plate thereby compressing at least a portion of the sample between the first plate and the second plate into a layer having uniform thickness; c. one or more spacers, said one or more spacers comprising a periodic array of pillars; and wherein the uniform thickness of the layer is regulated by the one or more spacers, d. a plurality of particles having one or more capture agents disposed on a surface thereof, wherein, in the closed configuration, the first plate and the second plate compress at least a portion of the sample such that there is substantially no overlap between (i) the one or more target cells, (ii) the plurality of particles, and (iii) the one or more target cells and the plurality of particles.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more spacers are fixed onto a surface of the second plate.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the plurality of particles have a diameter of 0.2 um to 100 um.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the plurality of particles are randomly distributed in the sample contact area of the second plate when the first plate and the second plate are in the open configuration.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein the capture agent specifically binds to a labeled targeted analyte comprising the non-cell analyte attached to an optical label.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more spacers have a uniform height.
17. The device of claim 11, wherein the uniform height of the one or more spacers is at least about 0.8 times the particle diameter.
18. The device of claim 11, wherein the uniform height of the one or more spacers is less than about 200 um.
19. The device of claim 11, wherein the uniform height of the one or more spacers is between at least about 0.8 times the particle diameter and about 200 um.
20. The device of claim 11, further comprising an imager for obtaining an image of a relevant volume of the sample.
21. The device of claim 11, wherein the relevant volume is a portion or entire volume of the at least part of the sample, and wherein the number of the particles in the relevant volume are configured to be, in a closed configuration, at least 10.
22. The device of claim 11, further comprising a processor for processing the image.
23. The device of claim 11, wherein the processing comprises at least one of (i) detecting the non-cell analyte by analyzing one or more images of at least 10 particles, and (ii) detecting the target cell analyte.
24. A method for assaying cells and a non-cell analytes in a liquid sample, comprising: h) having a device of claim 1; i) having a sample containing or suspected of containing one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte; j) having an optical label that is capable of binding the non-cell analyte forming a labeled non-cell analyte; k) depositing, in an open configuration, the sample of the sample contact area of the device, l) making, after step (d) the device in the closed configuration, thereby compressing at least a portion of the sample into a layer having uniform thickness; m) taking, using a imager, at least one image of a sample relevant sample volume, wherein the imager is capable of imaging the optical label and the target cell; and n) analyzing at least one image to detect an existence or an amount of (i) the target cell and/or (ii) the non-cell analyte.
25. A method for assaying cells and a non-cell analytes in a liquid sample, comprising: h) having a device of claim 2; i) having a sample containing or suspected of containing one or more target cells and a non-cell analyte; j) having an optical label that is capable of binding the non-cell analyte forming a labeled non-cell analyte; k) depositing, in an open configuration, the sample of the sample contact area of the device, l) making, after step (d) the device in the closed configuration, thereby compressing at least a portion of the sample into a layer having uniform thickness; m) taking, using a imager, at least one image of the sample relevant sample volume, wherein the imager is capable of imaging the optical label and the target cell; and n) analyzing, using a processor, at least one image to detect an existence or an amount of (i) the target cell and/or (ii) the non-cell analyte; wherein the processor is configured to process the at least one image to (i) detect the non-cell analyte by analyzing the images of at least 10 particles, and (ii) detect the target cell analyte.
26. The device, apparatus, or method of any prior claim, wherein, in detection of the non-cell analyte, the analyzing the images of at least 10 particles is by digital counting, wherein in the digital counting, an existence or an amount of non-cell analyte in the sample is determined from the number or the percentage of the beads that have a light signal above a threshold value, wherein the percentage is the ratio of the number of the beads with a light signal above the threshold to the number of the breads with a light signal below the threshold.
27. The device, apparatus, or method of any prior claim, wherein, in detection of the non-cell analyte, the analyzing the images of at least 10 particles is by an analog counting, wherein the analog counting determines an existence or an amount of non-cell analyte in the sample from the optical signal amplitude from all beads in the relevant sample area.
28. The device, apparatus, or method of any prior claim, further comprising two or more images wherein at least one image is dark field image and at least one is bright field image.
29. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles have a geometry (shape and size) that are sufficient to (i) produce a monolayer of the particles between the plates and (ii) produce no substantial overlap between the particles between the plates.
30. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles have a density that are sufficient to (i) produce a monolayer of the particles between the plates and (ii) produce no substantial overlap between the particles between the plates.
31. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles are mixed with the sample prior to depositing the sample into the device.
32. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles are disposed on at least one of the first plate and the second plate prior to deposition of the sample, and then mixed with the sample upon deposition of the sample onto the device.
33. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles have various shape.
34. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the one or more particles have a maximum dimension in the range of 0.05 um to 100 um.
35. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the non-cell analyte is detected using a competitive assay, comprising a step of providing a labeled competitive detection agent that competes with the non-cell analyte, if present, for binding to the capture agent for the analyte.
36. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the non-cell analyte is detected using a non-competing assay, comprising a step of providing a labeled detection agent that specifically binds to another binding site of the non-cell analyte, wherein the another binding site is the binding set different from the binding site by the capture agent.
37. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein one of the images is a direct image that comprises information of the topology (i.e. geometry) and position of the particle in the common area; and the other image is a signal image that is configured to comprises signal from the labeled competitive detection agents as a major signal of the image.
38. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the sample holder comprises a first and second plates are movable relative to each other into different configurations, including an open configuration and a closed configuration.
39. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the assaying is for diagnosing virus infection or bacterial infection of a subject.
40. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising determining, using a mobile electronic device: (i) one or more first values corresponding an amount of said analyte associated with said one or more capture agents; and (ii) one or more second values corresponding to an amount of said one or more cells within said sample.
41. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said plurality of particles are removably coupled to said at least one of said first plate and said second plate.
42. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said plurality of particles are selected from the group consisting of glass beads, magnetic beads, polystyrene beads, plastic bead, latex particles, metallic beads, alloy beads, and the beads comprising metal and dielectrics.
43. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said optical label is selected from reporter molecules, a fluorescent molecule, a dye molecule, a non-selective dye molecule, and a redox-reactive molecule.
44. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said plurality of particles comprises a first plurality of particles and a second plurality of particles, wherein said first plurality of particles comprise one or more first capture agents coupled thereto, and wherein said second plurality of particles comprise one or more second capture agents coupled thereto.
45. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more first capture agents are capable of associating with a first epitope on said analyte, and wherein said one or more second capture agents are capable of associating with a second epitope on said analyte.
46. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said first plurality of particles is disposed along said first plate, and said second plurality of particles is disposed along said second plate.
47. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said first plurality of particles is selected from the group consisting of glass beads, magnetic beads, polystyrene beads, and latex particles.
48. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said second plurality of particles is selected from the group consisting of reporter molecules, a fluorescent molecule, a dye molecule, a non-selective dye molecule, and a redox-reactive molecule.
49. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein at least one of said one or more first capture agents and said one or more second capture agents are capable of specifically associating with said analyte.
50. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said device further comprises one or more spacers within said space and disposed along at least one of said first plate or said second plate.
51. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more spacers determine a distance between said first plate and said second plate.
52. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein a length of said one or more spacers along a direction from said first plate to said second plate is less than about or about equal to an average diameter of said one or more cells in said sample.
53. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said plurality of particles have various shape.
54. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more cells within said space are disposed substantially as a non-confluent monolayer.
55. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more cells within said space are in suspension.
56. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said determining comprises obtaining one or more images of an area comprising said at least a portion of said sample within said space, wherein said imaged area includes at least one of said plurality of particles.
57. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more first values correspond to an intensity of energy emitted by said particle.
58. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising contacting said sample with a cell dye capable of associating with said one or more cells.
59. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more second values correspond to an intensity of energy emitted by said cell dye.
60. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising using an algorithm to determine a relationship between said one or more first values and said one or more second values.
61. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, classifying a level of infection in a subject from whom said sample was obtained based on said relationship between said one or more first values and said one or more second values.
62. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said infection is a viral infection, a bacterial infection, or a combination thereof.
63. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more cells are selected from the group consisting of white blood cells, leukocytes, granulocytes, agranulocytes, myeloid cells, lymphoid cells, neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, T-cells, B-cells, natural killer cells, and monocytes.
64. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said analyte is selected from the group consisting of a polypeptide, a protein, a tagged protein, a fusion protein, an antibody, a small molecule, a virus particle, a bacteria, C-reactive protein, and any fragment thereof.
65. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising contacting at least a portion of said sample with a competing detection agent capable of associating with said one or more capture agents.
66. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said competing detection agent competitively binds to said one or more capture agents with said analyte.
67. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising contacting at least a portion of said sample with a supplementary detection agent capable of associating with said analyte.
68. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said one or more capture agents are capable of associating with a first epitope on said analyte, and wherein said supplementary detection agent is capable of associating with a second epitope on said analyte.
69. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein said method is performed in less than about 10 sec, less than about 20 sec, less than about 30 sec, less than about 40 sec, less than about 50 sec, less than about 60 sec, less than about 120 sec, less than about 180 sec, less than about 240 sec, less than about 300 sec, less than about 400 sec, less than about 500 sec, or less than about 1000 sec.
70. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein steps (d) to (f) are done in the absence of any washing steps.
71. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the first and second plates are pressed together by hand.
72. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the non-cell analyte is a polypeptide, nucleic acid, or metabolite.
73. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the sample is a amniotic fluid, aqueous humour, vitreous humour, blood, whole blood, fractionated blood, plasma, serum, breast milk, cerebrospinal fluid, cerumen, chyle, chime, endolymph, perilymph, feces, gastric acid, gastric juice, lymph, mucus, nasal drainage, phlegm, pericardial fluid, peritoneal fluid, pleural fluid, pus, rheum, saliva, sebum, semen, sputum, sweat, synovial fluid, tears, vomit, urine, and exhaled breath condensate.
74. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, further comprising diagnosing a disease based on the results.
75. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the disease is cancer, an inflammatory disease or an infectious disease.
76. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the method detects multiple different non-cell analytes.
77. The device, apparatus, and method of any prior claim, wherein the sample comprises one or more target cells.
78. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the sample comprises one or more non-cell analytes.
79. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the one or more particles have a diameter between 0.2 um and 100 um.
80. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the capture agent binds to the non-cell analyte.
81. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein at least part of the sample is compressed by the first plate and the second plate into a layer of substantially uniform thickness.
82. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein at least part of the sample is substantially stagnant relative to the plates.
83. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the sample thickness in the closed configuration is configured to (i) make the one or more target cells have a monolayer between the plates and (ii) have no substantial overlap between the one or more target cells
84. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the one or more particles have a geometry (shape and size) that are configured to (i) make the particles have a monolayer between the plates and (ii) have no substantial overlap between the particles.
85. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, wherein the one or more particles have a density that are configured to (i) make the particles have a monolayer between the plates and (ii) have no substantial overlap between the particles.
86. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, further comprising spacers on one or both of the first plate and the second plate.
87. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, further comprising a labeled competing detection agent for competing with the analyte, if present, for binding to the capture agent for the analyte in a competitive assay.
88. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, further comprising a labeled detection agent that specifically binds to an additional binding site of the analyte in a non-competitive assay, wherein the additional binding site is the binding site different from the binding site by the capture agent.
89. The apparatus of any prior apparatus claim, further comprising an imager that images the target cell and the non-cell analyte when the sample are between the two plates and the plates are in a closed configuration.
90. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the inter spacer distance (SD) is equal or less than about 120 um (micrometer).
91. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the inter spacer distance (SD) is equal or less than about 100 um (micrometer).
92. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the fourth power of the inter-spacer-distance (ISD) divided by the thickness (h) and the Young's modulus (E) of the flexible plate (ISD{circumflex over ( )}4/(hE)) is 5×10{circumflex over ( )}6 um{circumflex over ( )}3/GPa or less.
93. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the fourth power of the inter-spacer-distance (ISD) divided by the thickness (h) and the Young's modulus (E) of the flexible plate (ISD{circumflex over ( )}4/(hE)) is 5×10{circumflex over ( )}5 um3/GPa or less.
94. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the spacers have pillar shape, a substantially flat top surface, a predetermined substantially uniform height, and a predetermined constant inter-spacer distance that is at least about 2 times larger than the size of the analyte, wherein the Young's modulus of the spacers times the filling factor of the spacers is equal or larger than 2 MPa, wherein the filling factor is the ratio of the spacer contact area to the total plate area, and wherein, for each spacer, the ratio of the lateral dimension of the spacer to its height is at least 1 (one).
95. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the spacers have pillar shape, a substantially flat top surface, a predetermined substantially uniform height, and a predetermined constant inter-spacer distance that is at least about 2 times larger than the size of the analyte, wherein the Young's modulus of the spacers times the filling factor of the spacers is equal or larger than 2 MPa, wherein the filling factor is the ratio of the spacer contact area to the total plate area, and wherein, for each spacer, the ratio of the lateral dimension of the spacer to its height is at least 1 (one), wherein the fourth power of the inter-spacer-distance (ISD) divided by the thickness (h) and the Young's modulus (E) of the flexible plate (ISD{circumflex over ( )}4/(hE)) is 5×10{circumflex over ( )}6 um{circumflex over ( )}3/GPa or less.
96. The device of any prior claim, wherein the device comprises two plates and spacers, and wherein the ratio of the inter-spacing distance of the spacers to the average width of the spacer is 2 or larger, and the filling factor of the spacers multiplied by the Young's modulus of the spacers is 2 MPa or larger.
97. The device, apparatus, system, smartphone system, or method of any prior claim, wherein the analyte is selected from the group consisting of proteins, peptides, nucleic acids, synthetic compounds, and inorganic compounds.
98. The device, apparatus, system, smartphone system, or method of any prior claim, wherein the spacers have a shape of pillars and a ratio of the width to the height of the pillar is equal or larger than one.
99. The method of any prior claim, wherein the sample that is deposited on one or both of the plates has an unknown volume.
100. The device, apparatus, system, smartphone system, or method of any prior claim, wherein the spacers have a shape of pillar, and the pillar has substantially uniform cross-section.
</claims>
</document>
