<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2452,G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F40/40,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
Liu, Yangyang
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62773196
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CONTENT RECOMMENDATION
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method and system for recommending content to users. During operation, the system can select a content piece from a content library and extract, by a computer using a natural language processing (NLP) technique, one or more keywords from the content piece. The system can determine a domain associated with the content piece based on the extracted keywords and obtain domain knowledge of the determined domain. The system can generate a feature tag for the content piece based on the extracted keywords and the obtained domain knowledge, and generate an attribute tag for a user based on historical data associated with the user. The system can then recommend one or more content pieces from the content library to the user based on feature tags associated with the one or more content pieces and the attribute tag for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-executable method, comprising: selecting a content piece from a content library; extracting, by a computer using a natural language processing (NLP) technique, one or more keywords from the content piece; determining a domain associated with the content piece based on the extracted keywords; obtaining domain knowledge of the determined domain; generating a feature tag for the content piece based on the extracted keywords and the obtained domain knowledge; generating an attribute tag for a user based on historical data associated with the user; and recommending one or more content pieces from the content library to the user based on feature tags associated with the one or more content pieces and the attribute tag for the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the domain knowledge comprises hierarchical domain knowledge that specifics at least: a domain name, a number of categories within the domain, and a number of feature words within each category.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: determining a category associated with the content piece; identifying a number of feature words associated with the determined category; and comparing the extracted keywords with the identified feature words associated with the determined category.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: identifying an extracted keyword that matches one of the identified feature words associated with the determined category; and adding the identified extracted keyword to the feature tag.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: ranking the extracted keywords based on a result of the comparison between the extracted keywords and the identified feature words associated with the determined category; and adding a number of extracted keywords having rankings within a predetermined ranking range in the feature tag.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the extracted keywords are associated with corresponding weight values, and wherein ranking the extracted keywords comprises updating the weight values based on the result of the comparison and ranking the extracted keywords based on the updated weight values.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the domain knowledge comprises one or more domain-knowledge graphs, wherein a respective domain-knowledge graph comprises an entity name and a number of attribute words associated with the entity, and wherein the entity name and an attribute word define a feature combination word that is specific to the domain.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: comparing the extracted keywords with feature combination words defined by the one or more domain-knowledge graphs; identifying an extracted keyword that matches one of the feature combination words; and adding the identified extracted keyword to the feature tag.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the attribute tag for the user comprises: identifying a second content piece that has been read by the user; obtaining a second feature tag for the second content piece; and adding at least a portion of the second feature tag to the attribute tag for the user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the domain knowledge comprises applying a domain-knowledge-based model that has been previously trained using a machine-learning technique.
11. A computer system, comprising: a processor; and a storage device coupled to the processor and storing instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: selecting a content piece from a content library; extracting, by a computer using a natural language processing (NLP) technique, one or more keywords from the content piece; determining a domain associated with the content piece based on the extracted keywords; obtaining domain knowledge of the determined domain; generating a feature tag for the content piece based on the extracted keywords and the obtained domain knowledge; generating an attribute tag for a user based on historical data associated with the user; and recommending one or more content pieces from the content library to the user based on feature tags associated with the one or more content pieces and the attribute tag for the user.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the domain knowledge comprises hierarchical domain knowledge that specifics at least: a domain name, a number of categories within the domain, and a number of feature words within each category.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: determining a category associated with the content piece; identifying a number of feature words associated with the determined category; and comparing the extracted keywords with the identified feature words associated with the determined category.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: identifying an extracted keyword that matches one of the identified feature words associated with the determined category; and adding the identified extracted keyword to the feature tag.
15. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: ranking the extracted keywords based on a result of the comparison between the extracted keywords and the identified feature words associated with the determined category; and adding a number of extracted keywords having rankings within a predetermined ranking range in the feature tag.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the extracted keywords are associated with corresponding weight values, and wherein ranking the extracted keywords comprises updating the weight values based on the result of the comparison and ranking the extracted keywords based on the updated weight values.
17. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the domain knowledge comprises one or more domain-knowledge graphs, wherein a respective domain-knowledge graph comprises an entity name and a number of attribute words associated with the entity, and wherein the entity name and an attribute word define a feature combination word that is specific to the domain.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein generating the feature tag comprises: comparing the extracted keywords with feature combination words defined by the one or more domain-knowledge graphs; identifying an extracted keyword that matches one of the feature combination words; and adding the identified extracted keyword to the feature tag.
19. The computer system of claim 11, wherein generating the attribute tag for the user comprises: identifying a second content piece that has been read by the user; obtaining a second feature tag for the second content piece; and adding at least a portion of the second feature tag to the attribute tag for the user.
20. The computer system of claim 11, wherein obtaining the domain knowledge comprises applying a domain-knowledge-based model that has been previously trained using a machine-learning technique.
</claims>
</document>
