<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,H04M1/725,H04M7/00,H04W4/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARGALIT, Gil
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARGALIT, Gil
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67687515
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MANAGING COMMUNICATIONS OVER AN ORGANIZATIONAL DATA COMMUNICATION NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A system and a method of managing communication of at least one user of a respective first computing device over an organizational communication network (OCN). The method comprises: receiving an indication of a triggering event related to the user, wherein the indication comprises at least one trigger property; generating a thread, comprising at least one thread data element based on the at least one trigger property; attributing a membership property to the user; presenting the at least one thread data element on a context-based user interface (CBUI) of the at least one first computing device according to at least one of the membership property and the trigger property; and enabling the at least one user to perform at least one action over the OCN, in the context of the thread representation on the CBUI, based on the at least one thread data element and the membership property.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing communication of at least one user of at least one respective first computing device over an organizational communication network (OCN), the method comprising: receiving an indication of occurrence of a triggering event related to the at least one user, wherein the indication comprises at least one trigger property; generating a thread, comprising at least one thread data element based on the at least one trigger property; attributing a membership property to the at least one user; presenting the at least one thread data element on a context-based user interface (CBUI) of the at least one first computing device according to at least one of the membership property and the trigger property; and enabling the at least one user to perform at least one action over the OCN, in the context of the thread representation on the CBUI, based on the at least one thread data element and the membership property.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the membership property is selected from a list consisting of: an identification of the at least one user, the user's role in an organization, pertinence of the user to a specific group in the organization, one or more permissions attributed to the user and one or more data elements relating to a computing device associated with the user.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the trigger property is selected from a list consisting of: a connection of a computing device to the OCN, disconnection of a computing device from the OCN, an action taken by at least one user on the OCN, changes made to entries or values of an organizational database, a scope of a triggering event and a priority of a triggering event.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one thread data element is a representation of a data element stored on a computing device on the OCN, and wherein the action is selected from a list consisting of: viewing the stored data element, retrieving the stored data element, modifying the stored data element and deleting the stored data element, and wherein enabling the user to perform the action is based on at least one membership property.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one thread data element is a representation of at least one second computing device on the OCN, and wherein the at least one action is a communication action between the first computing device and the at least one second computing device.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising presenting the thread on the CBUI of the first computing device and on the CBUI of the at least one second computing device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the communication action is selected from a list consisting of: sending a synchronous communication, receiving a synchronous communication, sending an asynchronous communication, receiving an asynchronous communication, propagating a communication via nodes of the OCN and blocking a propagation of a communication via nodes of the OCN, and wherein enabling the user to perform the communication action is based on at least one membership property.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing one or more communications over the OCN, to extract one or more communication properties selected from a list consisting of: a communication protocol, a communication subject, a communication content, a communication context, an identity of one or more users that are related to the at least one communication and a membership property of the one or more users related to the at least one communication.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising assigning a value of an extracted communication property of one or more communications to a respective thread data element of a specific thread, so as to associate between the one or more communications and the specific thread.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising assigning a value of an extracted communication property of two or more communications to a respective thread data element of a specific thread, so as to associate between the two or more communications and the specific thread, wherein the two or more communications differ in at least one of a communication type and a communication protocol.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising presenting a representation of the two or more communications as part of the associated specific thread on the CBUI.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein propagating a communication via nodes of the OCN is done via an OCN unified communication protocol, and wherein the OCN interfaces with one or more external communication networks (ECNs) using an ECN communication protocol.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more ECN is selected from a group consisting of: a Wide Area Network (WAN), a metropolitan area network (MAN), an Enterprise Private Network (EPN), a Virtual Private network (VPN), a Local Area Network (LAN), a cellular network, a Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), a satellite communication network, an Internet of Things (IoT) network, a machine to machine (M2M) network, and a third-party communication network.
14. (canceled)
15. The method of claim 12, comprising: receiving at least one communication from a computing device of an ECN, in an ECN communication protocol; converting the ECN communication protocol of the received ECN communication to a unified OCN protocol; and propagating the communication via nodes of the OCN in the unified OCN protocol.
16. The method of claim 12, comprising: receiving at least one communication from a computing device of the OCN, in a unified OCN communication protocol; converting the unified OCN communication protocol of the received OCN communication to an ECN protocol; and propagating the communication to a computing device of the ECN.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one thread is stored in a thread database, accessible via the OCN by the one or more users that are related to the at least one thread.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein performing an action over the OCN comprises: enabling a user to select at least one thread and one or more respective actions via the CBUI; instructing at least one node of the OCN to perform the action according to the user's selection; and updating the thread database according to the at least one performed action.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising updating the thread representation on the CBUI of one or more users related to the thread.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one action is an administrative thread action, selected from a list consisting of: initiating a thread, archiving a thread, deleting a thread and propagating a thread to one or more computing devices on the OCN, and wherein enabling the user to perform the administrative thread action is based on at least one membership property.
21. A method of managing communication of at least one user of a respective at least one first computing device over at least one organizational communication network (OCN), the method comprising: receiving an indication of occurrence of a triggering event related to the at least one user; receiving a membership property of the at least one user; and presenting a context-based user interface (CBUI) on the at least one first computing device according to the triggering event, wherein the presentation of the CBUI is personalized according to the membership property.
22. (canceled)
23. The method of claim 21 further comprising: generating a thread, comprising at least one thread data element based on the triggering event; presenting the thread on the CBUI according to the membership property; and enabling the at least one user to perform at least one action over the at least one OCN, in the context of the thread representation on the UI, based on the at least one thread data element and the membership property.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one thread data element is selected from a list consisting of: one or more communication properties of at least one communication over the OCN, one or more representations of a data element stored on a computing device on the at least one OCN and one or more triggering properties of the triggering event.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the one or more communication properties are selected from a list consisting of: a subject of a communication, a content of a communication, a reference to a content of a communication, a context of the communication, one or more parameters relating to an identity of at least one user related to the communication, and one or more parameters relating to an identity of at least one computing device related to the communication.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one OCN comprises a plurality of OCNs, and wherein the method further comprises presenting a respective plurality of CBUIs on the at least one first computing device, according to a context of the triggering event, wherein each presentation of a CBUI is personalized according to the membership property of the at least one user in relation to the respective OCN.
27. A system for managing communication of at least one user of at least one respective first computing device over an OCN, the system comprising: a non-transitory memory device, wherein modules of instruction code are stored, and a processor associated with the memory device, and configured to execute the modules of instruction code, whereupon execution of said modules of instruction code, the processor is further configured to perform at least one of: receive an indication of occurrence of a triggering event related to the at least one user, wherein the indication comprises at least one trigger property; generate a thread, comprising at least one thread data element based on the at least one trigger property; attribute a membership property to the at least one user; present the at least one thread data element on a CBUI of the at least one first computing device according to at least one of the membership property and the trigger property; and enable the at least one user to perform at least one action over the OCN, in the context of the thread representation on the CBUI based on the at least one thread data element and the membership property.
</claims>
</document>
