<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPRY HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEKELAITA, ANDREW JOSEPH
FERBER, ELAD
LANDREMAN, PATRICK EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71733106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR COMPUTATIONALLY EFFICIENT NON-INVASIVE BLOOD QUALITY MEASUREMENT
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, a system comprises a wearable member configured to receive first energy, generate first signals, select a first subset of the time series data, determine a standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data, the signal assessment threshold being including at least the values of the lower percentile, receive second energy, generate second signals containing second time series data from the second energy, select a second subset of the time series data to assess, compare all or part of the second signals to the signal assessment threshold, and if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is within the values of the lower percentile, then remove the second signals from further processing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, from a wearable sensor device, first energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the first energy being at a wavelength to take a physiological measurement; generating, by the wearable sensor device, first signals containing first time series data from the first energy; selecting, by the wearable sensor device, a first subset of the time series data to generate a signal assessment threshold; determining a standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data, the signal assessment threshold being including at least the values of the lower percentile; receiving, from the wearable sensor device, second energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the second energy being at the wavelength to take the physiological measurement of a wearer of the wearable sensor device; generating, by the wearable sensor device, second signals containing second time series data from the second energy; selecting a second subset of the time series data to assess prior to processing the time series data of the second subset and other time series data taken near or at a same time as the generation of the second signals; comparing all or part of the second signals to the signal assessment threshold; and if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is within the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then removing the second signals from further processing.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein if all or part of the second signals include second time series data that is within the values of the upper percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then removing the second signals from further processing.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein if all or part of the second signals include second time series data that is not within the values of the upper percentile and not within the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then processing the second signals to take the physiological measurement.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological measurement is a respiratory rate.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological measurement is a Sp02 measurement.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first energy being at the wavelength to take the physiological measurement of the wearer of the wearable sensor device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is above the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then processing the second signals to make measurements.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is above the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then processing the third signals to make measurements, the third signals being generated by a location associated with low SNR.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data comprises computing a normalized standard deviation of the window: Where:
10. A system comprising: a wearable member including a processor and memory to store executable instructions, the instructions being executable to: receive first energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the first energy being at a wavelength to take a physiological measurement; generate first signals containing first time series data from the first energy; select a first subset of the time series data to generate a signal assessment threshold; determine a standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data, the signal assessment threshold being including at least the values of the lower percentile; receive second energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the second energy being at the wavelength to take the physiological measurement of a wearer of the wearable sensor device; generate second signals containing second time series data from the second energy; select a second subset of the time series data to assess prior to processing the time series data of the second subset and other time series data taken near or at a same time as the generation of the second signals; compare all or part of the second signals to the signal assessment threshold; and if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is within the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then remove the second signals from further processing.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein if all or part of the second signals include second time series data that is within the values of the upper percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then remove the second signals from further processing.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein if all or part of the second signals include second time series data that is not within the values of the upper percentile and not within the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then process the second signals to take the physiological measurement.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the physiological measurement is a respiratory rate.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the physiological measurement is a Sp02 measurement.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the first energy being at the wavelength to take the physiological measurement of the wearer of the wearable sensor device.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is above the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then process the second signals to make measurements.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is above the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then process the third signals to make measurements, the third signals being generated by a location associated with low SNR.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein determining the standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data comprises computing a normalized standard deviation of the window: Where:
19. A system comprising: a processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive first energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the first energy being at a wavelength to take a physiological measurement; generate first signals containing first time series data from the first energy; select a first subset of the time series data to generate a signal assessment threshold; determine a standard deviation indicating a quality at a low percentile of values associated with first windows of the time series data and a high percentile of values associated with the first windows of the time series data, the signal assessment threshold being including at least the values of the lower percentile; receive second energy from at least one LED of the wearable sensor device, the second energy being at the wavelength to take the physiological measurement of a wearer of the wearable sensor device; generate second signals containing second time series data from the second energy; select a second subset of the time series data to assess prior to processing the time series data of the second subset and other time series data taken near or at a same time as the generation of the second signals; compare all or part of the second signals to the signal assessment threshold; and if all or part of the second signals include the second time series data that is within the values of the lower percentile based on the signal assessment threshold, then remove the second signals from further processing.
</claims>
</document>
