<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, YOUNG JA
LEE, TAESUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive Mechanism for Social Engineering Communication Identification and Response
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanisms for implementing a social engineering cognitive system are provided. The mechanisms train a social engineering classifier to classify documents in a corpus as to whether they are associated with a social engineering communication (SEC). The mechanisms process one or more documents of the corpus to classify the one or more documents as to whether the one or more documents are associated with an SEC to thereby identify a set of SEC related documents. The mechanisms extract key features from the documents in the set of SEC related documents. The mechanisms train an SEC classification model based on the extracted key features, which processes a newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC. The mechanisms perform a responsive action in response to determining that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory comprising instructions executed by the at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to implement a social engineering cognitive system, the method comprising: training, by the social engineering cognitive system, a social engineering classifier to classify documents in a corpus as to whether they are associated with a social engineering communication (SEC); processing, by the social engineering cognitive system, one or more documents of the corpus to classify the one or more documents as to whether the one or more documents are associated with an SEC to thereby identify a set of SEC related documents; extracting, by the social engineering cognitive system, key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents; training, by the social engineering cognitive system, an SEC classification model based on the extracted key features; processing, by the trained SEC classification model, a newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC; and performing, by a computing device, a responsive action in response to determining that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents comprises processing at least one of a linked document linked to an SEC related document, or a linked file linked to the SEC related document, to extract features present in the linked document or linked file that are indicative of an SEC.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents comprises extracting, from key structural portions of the documents in the set of SEC related documents, at least one of phrases, terms, or patterns of text, or features present in metadata associated with the documents in the set of SEC related documents.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting key features from the SEC related documents comprises processing the SEC related documents by a feature extractor implementing at least one of a conditional random field operation, a recurrent neural network operation, or statistical modeling operation, to predict labels for elements of the SEC related documents indicative of an SEC.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein processing, by the trained SEC classification model, the newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC comprises: extracting features from the newly received electronic communication; and performing a weighted evaluation of the extracted features from the newly received electronic communication in accordance with weights defined in the trained SEC classification model, to generate a probability score for the newly received communication indicating a probability that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the weights defined in the trained SEC classification model are machine learned weights associated with features of electronic communications that indicate a relative importance of extracted features in determining whether or not electronic communications are SECs.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: notifying, by the social engineering cognitive system, a user of results of processing the newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC; receiving, by the social engineering cognitive system, user feedback in response to the notification, wherein the user feedback indicates a correctness or incorrectness of the results of the processing of the newly received electronic communication; and updating, by the social engineering cognitive system, training of the trained SEC classification model based on the user feedback.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the responsive action is an operation executed by the computing device to mitigate negative effects of the newly received electronic communication with regard to at least one of an operation of the computing device or access to personal information of a user of the computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the responsive action is at least one of deleting the newly received electronic communication, moving the newly received electronic communication to a specific storage location, outputting a notification warning a user to not respond to the newly received electronic communication or open any attachments associated with the newly received communication, or reporting the newly received electronic communication to a provider of the trained SEC classification model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC comprises: deploying, by the social engineering cognitive system, the trained SEC classification model to the computing device via at least one data network; and executing, by the computing device, the SEC classification model in association with a communication application executing on the computing device, to classify communications received by the communication application.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed in a data processing system, configures the data processing system to implement a social engineering cognitive system and operate to: train, by the social engineering cognitive system, a social engineering classifier to classify documents in a corpus as to whether they are associated with a social engineering communication (SEC); process, by the social engineering cognitive system, one or more documents of the corpus to classify the one or more documents as to whether the one or more documents are associated with an SEC to thereby identify a set of SEC related documents; extract, by the social engineering cognitive system, key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents; train, by the social engineering cognitive system, an SEC classification model based on the extracted key features; process, by the trained SEC classification model, a newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC; and perform, by a computing device, a responsive action in response to determining that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to extract key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents at least by processing at least one of a linked document linked to an SEC related document, or a linked file linked to the SEC related document, to extract features present in the linked document or linked file that are indicative of an SEC.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to extract key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents at least by extracting, from key structural portions of the documents in the set of SEC related documents, at least one of phrases, terms, or patterns of text, or features present in metadata associated with the documents in the set of SEC related documents.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to extract key features from the SEC related documents at least by processing the SEC related documents by a feature extractor implementing at least one of a conditional random field operation, a recurrent neural network operation, or statistical modeling operation, to predict labels for elements of the SEC related documents indicative of an SEC.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to process, by the trained SEC classification model, the newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC at least by: extracting features from the newly received electronic communication; and performing a weighted evaluation of the extracted features from the newly received electronic communication in accordance with weights defined in the trained SEC classification model, to generate a probability score for the newly received communication indicating a probability that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the weights defined in the trained SEC classification model are machine learned weights associated with features of electronic communications that indicate a relative importance of extracted features in determining whether or not electronic communications are SECs.
17. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer readable program further causes the data processing system to: notify, by the social engineering cognitive system, a user of results of processing the newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC; receive, by the social engineering cognitive system, user feedback in response to the notification, wherein the user feedback indicates a correctness or incorrectness of the results of the processing of the newly received electronic communication; and update, by the social engineering cognitive system, training of the trained SEC classification model based on the user feedback.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the responsive action is an operation executed by the computing device to mitigate negative effects of the newly received electronic communication with regard to at least one of an operation of the computing device or access to personal information of a user of the computing device.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the responsive action is at least one of deleting the newly received electronic communication, moving the newly received electronic communication to a specific storage location, outputting a notification warning a user to not respond to the newly received electronic communication or open any attachments associated with the newly received communication, or reporting the newly received electronic communication to a provider of the trained SEC classification model.
20. A data processing system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor, wherein the at least one memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the data processing system to implement a social engineering cognitive system and operate to: train, by the social engineering cognitive system, a social engineering classifier to classify documents in a corpus as to whether they are associated with a social engineering communication (SEC); process, by the social engineering cognitive system, one or more documents of the corpus to classify the one or more documents as to whether the one or more documents are associated with an SEC to thereby identify a set of SEC related documents; extract, by the social engineering cognitive system, key features from the SEC related documents in the set of SEC related documents; train, by the social engineering cognitive system, an SEC classification model based on the extracted key features; process, by the trained SEC classification model, a newly received electronic communication to determine whether or not the newly received electronic communication is an SEC; and perform, by a computing device, a responsive action in response to determining that the newly received electronic communication is an SEC.
</claims>
</document>
