<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUTLER, TAUREAN
BULGAKOV, MYKHAYLO
CARROLL, II, WILLIAM F.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69057771
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES TO AUTOMATICALLY UPDATE PAYMENT INFORMATION IN A COMPUTE ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques for generating rules automatically navigate a website and perform updates of payment token information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device, comprising: a memory to store a mobile application comprising instructions; and processing circuitry, coupled with the memory, operable to execute the instructions, that when executed, cause the mobile application on the processing circuitry to: process an indication to change payment token information associated with a website, the website comprising webpages; automatically enable a veneer screen to present in a display of the mobile application, the veneer screen to overlay an automated navigation to a webpage of the webpages, wherein the webpage comprises payment token information, and the veneer screen to prevent visual display of the automated navigation to the webpage; initiate a script comprising one or more rules to cause performance of one or more actions to perform the automatic navigation to the webpage to change the payment token information; automatically navigate to the webpage to change the payment token information when the veneer screen is presented in the display of the mobile application; and cause the change of the payment token information with new payment token information in the webpage.
2. The mobile device of claim 1, the mobile application to: determine one or more fields of the webpage associated with the payment token information; and automatically cause via the mobile application, the change of the payment token information with the new payment token information by replacing information in the one or more fields of the webpage.
3. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the indication to change the payment token information based on an indication of a security breach occurrence affecting the payment token information.
4. The mobile device of claim 1, the mobile application to receive the indication to change the payment token based on a security breach of a second website affecting the payment token information.
5. The mobile device of claim 1, the mobile application to cause a prompt to be presented in a display of the mobile application for a user to input one or more credentials to enable access to an account associated with the payment token information and the website to change the payment token information.
6. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the veneer screen to apply a blurring effect in the display to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
7. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the veneer screen comprises an advertisement graphic to present in the display, the advertisement graphic to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
8. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the payment token information comprises one or more of a virtual credit card number, an address, an expiration date, a user name.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving and processing, by a mobile application of a mobile phone device, an indication to change payment token information associated with a website, the website comprising webpages; automatically enabling, by the mobile application, a veneer screen to present in a display of the mobile application, the veneer screen to overlay an automated navigation to a webpage of the webpages, wherein the webpage comprises payment token information, and the veneer screen to prevent visual display of the automated navigation to the webpage; initiating, by the mobile application, a script comprising one or more rules to cause performance of one or more actions to perform the automatic navigation to the webpage to change the payment token information; automatically navigating, by the mobile application, to the webpage to change the payment token information when the veneer screen is presented in the display of the mobile application; and cause, by the mobile application, the change of the payment token information with new payment token information in the webpage.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising: determining, by the mobile application, one or more fields of the webpage associated with the payment token information; and automatically causing, via the mobile application, the change of the payment token information with the new payment token information by replacing information in the one or more fields of the webpage.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the indication to change the payment token information based on an indication of a security breach occurrence affecting the payment token information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising receiving, by the mobile application, the indication to change the payment token based on a security breach of a second website affecting the payment token information.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising causing, by the mobile application, a prompt to be presented in a display of the mobile application for a user to input one or more credentials to enable access to an account associated with the payment token information and the website to change the payment token information.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the veneer screen to apply a blurring effect in the display to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the veneer screen comprises an advertisement graphic to present in the display, the advertisement graphic to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the payment token information comprises one or more of a virtual credit card number, an address, an expiration date, a user name.
17. A computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable program code executable by a processor to: receive and process an indication to change payment token information associated with a website, the website comprising webpages; automatically enable a veneer screen to present in a display, the veneer screen to overlay an automated navigation to a webpage of the webpages, wherein the webpage comprises payment token information, and the veneer screen to prevent visual display of the automated navigation to the webpage; initiate a script comprising one or more rules to cause performance of one or more actions to perform the automatic navigation to the webpage to change the payment token information; automatically navigate to the webpage to change the payment token information when the veneer screen is presented in the display of the mobile application; and cause the change of the payment token information with new payment token information in the webpage.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, the processor to: determine one or more fields of the webpage associated with the payment token information; and automatically cause the change of the payment token information with the new payment token information by replacing information in the one or more fields of the webpage.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the veneer screen to apply a blurring effect in the display to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the veneer screen comprises an advertisement graphic to present in the display, the advertisement graphic to overlay the automated navigation to the webpage.
</claims>
</document>
