<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/911
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PFEFFER, HOWARD
</assignee>

<inventors>
PFEFFER, HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64950348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR MANAGEMENT, CONFIGURATION AND PROVISIONING OF COMMUNICATION DEVICES IN A DISTRIBUTED ACCESS ARCHITECTURE
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and methods for configuration of a Remote PHY or Communications Device, and redirection one or more core device(s) within a content and data delivery network. In one embodiment, the architecture comprises a Remote PHY distributed CCAP architecture within a cable network, and the methods and apparatus provide a network operator with the ability to associate multiple remote devices (and their associated service groups, and hence subscribers) to one or more specific CCAP core(s), to facilitate the operator's operational and support models, including defining and instantiating an overall network topology. In one exemplary variant, information from multiple sources are used by an analytics engine to calculate remote device-to-core assignments, so as to achieve the desired overall operational topology and goals. Improved mechanisms for remote device installation are described. In one implementation, mobile devices are used by installers to interact with the assignment process logic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-18. (canceled)
19. A method of operating a computerized network apparatus within a Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)-compliant and Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) Distributed Access Architecture (DAA)-compliant hybrid fiber coax (HFC) network to configure one or more computerized devices with a topology of the HFC network, the method comprising; obtaining a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within the HFC network; obtaining a second plurality of data relating to a plurality of core entities within the HFC network; executing at least one algorithm to process the first data and the second data, and third data relating to one or more network configuration rules or requirements, the executing at least in part calculating a topology for the HFC network; and causing allocation of at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical layer devices to respective one or more of the plurality of core entities based at least on the calculated topology.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the obtaining a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices comprises obtaining a first plurality of data relating to each of a plurality of a CCAP-compliant Remote PHY (Devices (RPDs).
21. The method of claim 19, further comprising: receiving policy-related data from an operator or management process of the HFC network; and executing the at least one algorithm to further process at least a portion of the received policy-related data for said calculating of the topology.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein: the receiving policy-related data comprises receiving data correlating at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical devices to a prescribed geographic area; and the causing allocation comprises assigning the at least portion of the plurality of remote physical devices correlated to the prescribed geographic area to one or more CCAP Cores or CCAP eCores of a prescribed network data center and operative to execute a prescribed version of a CCAP software or firmware.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein: the obtaining a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within the HFC network comprises receiving data correlating at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical devices to a prescribed geographic area; and the causing allocation comprises assigning the at least portion of the plurality of remote physical devices correlated to the prescribed geographic area to one or more CCAP Cores or CCAP eCores of a prescribed network data center and operative to execute a prescribed version of a CCAP software or firmware.
24. The method of claim 19, wherein: the obtaining a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within the HFC network comprises receiving data correlating at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical devices to one or more prescribed network distribution hubs; and the causing allocation comprises assigning the at least portion of the plurality of remote physical devices correlated to the one or more prescribed network hubs to one or more CCAP Cores or CCAP eCores of a prescribed network data center and operative to execute a prescribed version of a CCAP software or firmware.
25. The method of claim 19, wherein: the obtaining a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within the HFC network comprises receiving data correlating at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical devices to one or more prescribed network distribution hubs; and the causing allocation comprises assigning the at least portion of the plurality of remote physical devices correlated to the one or more prescribed network hubs across two or more network data centers.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: detecting failure of at least one core entity associated with one of the two or more network data centers; and based at least in part on the detecting, causing reassignment of a subset of the at least portion of remote physical devices to another of the two or more data centers.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising receiving policy data specifying at least one of a desired failure group size or maximum failure group size; and wherein the assigning the at least portion of the plurality of remote physical devices correlated to the one or more prescribed network hubs across two or more network data centers comprises causing the assigning so as to obey the specified at least one of the desired failure group size or maximum failure group size.
28. Computerized network apparatus, comprising: digital processor apparatus; at least one data interface in data communication with the digital processor apparatus; and at least one storage device in data communication with the digital processor apparatus, the at least one storage device comprising a storage medium having at least one computer program disposed thereon, the at least one computer program configured to, when executed, cause the computerized network apparatus to: obtain a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within a hybrid fiber coax (HFC) network, the HFC network comprising a Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS)-compliant and Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) Distributed Access Architecture (DAA)-compliant network; obtain a second plurality of data relating to a plurality of core entities within the HFC network; execute at least one algorithm to process the first data and the second data, and third data relating to one or more network configuration rules or requirements, the execution at least in part causing calculation of a topology for at least a portion of the HFC network; and cause allocation of at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical layer devices to respective one or more of the plurality of core entities based at least on the calculated topology.
29. Computer readable apparatus comprising at least one storage medium, the at least one storage medium comprising at least one computer program, the at least one computer program comprising a plurality of instructions which, when executed on a computerized device: obtain a first plurality of data relating to a plurality of remote physical layer devices within a distributed architecture digital network, the distributed architecture digital network comprising a Data Over Cable Service interface Specification (DOCSIS) compliant and Converged Cable Access Platform (CCAP) Distributed Access Architecture (DAA) compliant hybrid fiber coax (HFC) network; obtain a second plurality of data relating to a plurality of core entities within the distributed architecture digital network; execute at least one algorithm to process the first data and the second data, and third data relating to one or more network configuration rules or requirements, to calculate a topology for the distributed architecture digital network; and cause allocation of at least a portion of the plurality of remote physical layer devices to respective one or more of the plurality of core entities based on the calculated topology.
</claims>
</document>
