<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/02,B65G1/04,B65G1/137,B65G65/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERKSHIRE GREY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, THOMAS
VELAGAPUDI, PRASANNA
KOLETSCHKA, THOMAS
MASON, MATTHEW T.
WAGNER, THOMAS
DAWSON-HAGGERTY, MICHAEL
COHEN, BENJAMIN
GEYER, CHRISTOPHER
MARONEY, KYLE
MCMAHAN, WILLIAM CHU-HYON
FORT, WILLIAM HARTMAN
AMEND, JR., JOHN RICHARD
KING, JENNIFER EILEEN
PRICE, GENE TEMPLE
SRINIVASA, SIDDHARTHA
AHEARN, KEVIN
SMITH, DANIEL
ROMANO, JOSEPH
KOVAL, MICHAEL CAP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61906873
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROCESSING OBJECTS INCLUDING MOBILE MATRIX CARRIER SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A storage, retrieval and processing system for processing objects is disclosed. The storage, retrieval and processing system includes a plurality of storage bins providing storage of a plurality of objects, where the plurality of storage bins is in communication with a bin conveyance system for moving selected storage bins to a storage bin processing location, a programmable motion device in communication with the bin processing location for receiving a selected storage bin from the plurality of bins, where the programmable motion device includes an end effector for grasping and moving a selected object out of a selected storage bin, and a plurality of destination bins in communication with the bin conveyance system for moving a selected destination bin from a destination bin processing location that is proximate the programmable motion device to the plurality of destination bins.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-27. (canceled)
28. A method of providing storage, retrieval and processing of objects, comprising: providing a plurality of storage bins for storage of a plurality of objects, said plurality of storage bins being located on a first plurality of shelve locations; providing a plurality of destination bins for receiving a plurality of object, said plurality of destination bins being located on a second plurality of shelve locations; removing a selected storage bin from a first shelf of the first plurality of shelves, in part, by moving a first automated mobile cart under the first shelf and moving the selected storage bin onto the first automated cart; moving the first automated mobile cart including the selected storage bin to a bin processing location; removing a selected destination bin from a second shelf of the second plurality of shelves, in part, by moving a second automated mobile cart under the second shelf and moving the selected destination bin onto the second automated cart; moving the second automated mobile cart including the selected destination bin to the bin processing location; and grasping and moving a selected object out of the selected storage bin at the bin processing location to the selected destination bin at the bin processing location using an end effector of a programmable motion device.
29. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the plurality of storage bins is provided as an array of destination bins.
30. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the plurality of destination bins is provided as an array of destination bins.
31. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the plurality of storage bins and the plurality of destination bins are interspersed with one another.
32. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the first plurality of shelves is provided in an array.
33. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the second plurality of shelves is provided as an array.
34. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the first plurality of shelves and the second plurality of shelves are interspersed with one another.
35. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the first plurality of shelves and the second plurality of shelves are provided as a third plurality of shelves that are each usable for receiving either the selected storage bin or the selected destination bin.
36. The method as claimed in claim 28, wherein the automated mobile matrix cart is movable in at least two mutually orthogonal directions.
37. The method as claimed in claim 28, further comprising returning the selected storage bin from the storage bin processing location to a further available shelf among the first plurality of shelves by moving the first automated mobile cart under the shelf and moving the selected storage bin onto the further available shelf, and moving the first automated mobile cart away from under the further available shelf.
38. The method as claimed in claim 28, further comprising returning the selected destination bin from the destination bin processing location to a further available shelf by moving the second automated mobile matrix cart under the further available shelf to move the selected destination bin onto the further available shelf and moving the automated mobile cart away from under the further available shelf.
39. A method of providing storage, retrieval and processing of objects, comprising: providing a plurality of storage bins for storage of a plurality of objects, said plurality of storage bins being located on a first plurality of shelve locations; providing a plurality of destination bins for receiving a plurality of object, said plurality of destination bins being located on a second plurality of shelve locations; moving a first automated mobile cart including a selected storage bin of the plurality of storage bins to a bin processing location; moving the second automated mobile cart including a selected destination bin of the plurality of destination bins to the bin processing location; grasping and moving a selected object out of the selected storage bin at the bin processing location to the selected destination bin at the bin processing location using an end effector of a programmable motion device; and moving the second automated mobile cart including the selected destination bin from bin processing location to an available shelf among the first plurality of shelves and the second plurality of shelves, in part, by moving the second automated mobile carrier under the available shelf and moving the selected destination bin onto the available shelf.
40. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the method further includes removing a selected storage bin from a first shelf of the first plurality of shelves, in part, by moving a first automated mobile cart under the first shelf and moving the selected storage bin onto the first automated cart.
41. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the method further includes removing a selected destination bin from a second shelf of the second plurality of shelves, in part, by moving a second automated mobile cart under the second shelf and moving the selected destination bin onto the second automated cart.
42. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the plurality of storage bins is provided as an array of destination bins.
43. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the plurality of destination bins is provided as an array of destination bins.
44. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the plurality of storage bins and the plurality of destination bins are interspersed with one another.
45. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the first plurality of shelves is provided in an array.
46. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the second plurality of shelves is provided as an array.
47. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the first plurality of shelves and the second plurality of shelves are interspersed with one another.
48. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the first plurality of shelves and the second plurality of shelves are provided as a third plurality of shelves that are each usable for receiving either the selected storage bin or the selected destination bin.
49. The method as claimed in claim 39, wherein the automated mobile matrix cart is movable in at least two mutually orthogonal directions.
50. The method as claimed in claim 39, further comprising returning the selected storage bin from the storage bin processing location to a further available shelf among the first plurality of shelves by moving the first automated mobile cart under the shelf and moving the selected storage bin onto the further available shelf, and moving the first automated mobile cart away from under the further available shelf.
51. A storage, retrieval and processing system for processing objects, said storage, retrieval and processing system comprising: a plurality of storage bins providing storage of a plurality of objects, and a plurality of destination bins for receiving any of the plurality of objects, both said plurality of storage bins and said plurality of destination bins being provided interspersed with one another on a plurality of shelve locations, said plurality of shelve locations being in communication with a bin conveyance system for moving selected storage bins to a storage bin processing location; a first mobile cart for moving under a first location of the plurality of shelve locations for acquiring a selected storage bin onto the first mobile cart; a second mobile cart for moving under a second location of the plurality of shelve locations for acquiring a selected destination bin onto the second mobile cart; and a programmable motion device in communication with the bin processing location for receiving the selected storage bin on the first mobile cart, and for receiving the selected destination bin on the second mobile cart, said programmable motion device including an end effector for grasping and moving a selected object out of the selected storage bin to the selected destination bin at a bin processing location.
52. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the first mobile cart removes the selected storage bin from a respective shelf by moving under the shelf and subsequently moving away from under the shelf with the selected storage bin on the mobile cart.
53. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the second mobile cart removes the selected destination bin from a respective shelf by moving under the shelf and subsequently moving away from under the shelf with the selected destination bin on the mobile cart.
54. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the plurality of storage bins and the plurality of destination bins are interspersed with one another.
55. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the processing programmable motion device includes an articulated arm, and wherein the articulated arm is positioned adjacent a portion of the bin conveyance system.
56. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the plurality of destination bins is provided as an array of destination bins.
57. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the second mobile cart is adapted to move the selected destination bin away from the to the bin processing location proximate the processing programmable motion device.
58. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 51, wherein the bin conveyance system includes a plurality of automated mobile matrix carts.
59. The storage, retrieval and processing system as claimed in claim 58, wherein the plurality of automated mobile matrix carts are movable in at least two mutually orthogonal directions.
</claims>
</document>
