<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
D06F23/04,D06F33/32,D06F34/04,D06F34/18,G06K9/00,G06K9/32,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, JUNHYUN
KANG, JEONGHOON
CHANG, Seokmo
LEE, Sungmo
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74189467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WASHING MACHINE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a washing machine capable of identifying whether laundry of an inner tub includes waterproof clothing. The washing machine includes a cabinet provided with an opening at an upper portion thereof, an outer tub provided in the cabinet, an inner tub provided in the outer tub, a motor configured to rotate the inner tub, a camera configured to capture an image of an inside of the inner tub, and a controller configured to control the motor to increase a rotational speed of the inner tub to a first rotational speed during spinning. The controller is configured to control the motor to set the rotational speed of the inner tub to a second rotational speed, which is less than the first rotational speed, based on the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera during the spinning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A washing machine comprising: a cabinet with an opening at an upper portion thereof; an outer tub to be provided in the cabinet; an inner tub to be provided in the outer tub; a motor configured to rotate the inner tub; a camera configured to capture an image of an inside of the inner tub; and a controller configured to: control the motor to increase a rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a first rotational speed during spinning, control the motor to set the rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a second rotational speed, which is less than the first rotational speed, based on the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera during the spinning.
2. The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to control the motor to rotate the inner tub at a third rotational speed, and the controller is configured to control the camera to capture the image of the inside of the inner tub after the inner tub is rotated at the third rotational speed, wherein the third rotational speed is equal to or less than the second rotational speed.
3. The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to identify an arrangement of laundry accommodated in the inner tub based on a processing of the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera.
4. The washing machine of claim 3, wherein the controller controls the motor to increase the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed in response to the arrangement of the laundry being in a ring shape.
5. The washing machine of claim 3, wherein the controller controls the motor to set the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed in response to the arrangement of the laundry being in a circular shape.
6. The washing machine of claim 3, wherein the controller is configured to identify the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub based on a difference between an image of a bottom of the inner tub that is pre-stored and the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera.
7. The washing machine of claim 3, further comprising: a communication circuitry configured to communicate with a server device, wherein the controller is configured to control the communication circuitry to transmit the image of the inside of the inner tub to the server device and the controller is configured to receive information on the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub from the server device through the communication circuitry.
8. The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to set a region of interest (ROI) in a central portion of the image of the inside of the inner tub and the controller controls the motor to increase the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed in response to the image at the ROI being the same as an image of a bottom of the inner tub.
9. The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to set a region of interest (ROI) in a central portion of the image of the inside of the inner tub and the controller controls the motor to set the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed in response to the image at the ROI being different from an image of a bottom of the inner tub.
10. The washing machine of claim 1, wherein the camera is provided at one of: an inner wall of the opening, a lower side of a door configured to open and close the opening, and a lower side of a detergent dispenser configured to supply detergent to the inner tub.
11. A control method of a washing machine including a cabinet with an opening at an upper portion thereof, an outer tub to be provided in the cabinet, and an inner tub to be provided in the outer tub, the control method comprising: increasing a rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a first rotational speed during spinning; capturing an imaging of an inside of the inner tub by a camera installed on an inner wall of the opening during the spinning; and setting the rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a second rotational speed, which is less than the first rotational speed, based on the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera during the spinning.
12. The control method of claim 11, further comprising: rotating the inner tub at a third rotational speed; and capturing an image of the inside of the inner tub after the inner tub is rotated at the third rotational speed, wherein the third rotational speed is equal to or less than the second rotational speed.
13. The control method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying an arrangement of laundry accommodated in the inner tub based on a processing of the image of the inside of the inner tub.
14. The control method of claim 13, wherein the increasing of the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed during the spinning comprises increasing the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed in response to the arrangement of the laundry being in a ring shape.
15. The control method of claim 13, wherein the setting of the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed comprises limiting the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed in response to the arrangement of the laundry being in a circular shape.
16. The control method of claim 13, wherein the identifying of the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub comprises identifying the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub based on a difference between an image of a bottom of the inner tub that is pre-stored and the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera.
17. The control method of claim 13, wherein the identifying of the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub comprises: transmitting the image of the inside of the inner tub to a server device; and receiving information on the arrangement of the laundry accommodated in the inner tub from the server device.
18. The control method of claim 11, wherein the increasing of the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed during the spinning comprises: setting a region of interest (ROI) in a central portion of the image of the inside of the inner tub, and increasing the rotational speed of the inner tub to the first rotational speed in response to of the image at the ROI being the same as an image of a bottom of the inner tub.
19. The control method of claim 11, wherein the setting of the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed comprises: setting a region of interest (ROI) in a central portion of the image of the inside of the inner tub, and setting the rotational speed of the inner tub to the second rotational speed in response to the image at the ROI being different from an image of a bottom of the inner tub.
20. A washing machine comprising: a cabinet with an opening at an upper portion thereof; an outer tub to be provided in the cabinet; an inner tub to be provided in the outer tub; a motor configured to rotate the inner tub; a camera configured to capture an image an inside of the inner tub; a processor electrically connected to the camera and the motor; and a memory configured to store at least one instruction configured to cause the processor to: control the motor to increase a rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a first rotational speed during spinning, control the motor to set the rotational speed of the inner tub while provided in the outer tub to a second rotational speed, which is less than the first rotational speed, based on the image of the inside of the inner tub captured by the camera during the spinning.
</claims>
</document>
