<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F9/44,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOSHI, SALIL
KARANAM, HIMA PRASAD
KESARWANI, MANISH
MEHTA, SAMEEP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69524093
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Tracking missing data using provenance traces and data simulation
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for tracking missing data using provenance traces and data simulation are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes generating, for each of multiple stages in a data curation sequence, a machine learning model of the data curation sequence, wherein the model is based on historical input records within the data curation sequence, historical output records within the data curation sequence, and provenance data within the data curation sequence; creating a simulated output record based on a detected anomaly corresponding to the data curation sequence; predicting the content of absent input records that precede the simulated output record in the data curation sequence and provenance data corresponding to the simulated output record; and outputting, to a user, in response to a query pertaining to the detected anomaly, the predicted input records and information relating the predicted input records to the detected anomaly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: generating, for each of multiple stages in a data curation sequence, a machine learning model of the data curation sequence, thereby updating the model after each subsequent stage, wherein the model is based at least in part on (i) one or more historical input records within the data curation sequence, (ii) one or more historical output records within the data curation sequence, and (iii) one or more items of provenance data within the data curation sequence; creating a simulated output record based at least in part on a detected anomaly corresponding to the data curation sequence; predicting (i) the content of one or more absent input records that precede the simulated output record in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the simulated output record, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the simulated output record; and outputting, to at least one user, in response to a query pertaining to the detected anomaly, (i) the content of the one or more predicted input records and (ii) at least one item of information relating the content of the one or more predicted input records to the detected anomaly; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: predicting (i) the content of a second set of one or more input records that precede the one or more predicted input records in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the content of the one or more predicted input records, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the content of the one or more predicted input records.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, comprising: repeating said predicting for (i) one or more additional sets of input records and (ii) one or more additional corresponding sets of provenance data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model learns correspondences between record fields and character-level spans recorded by one or more items of provenance data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said generating the machine learning model comprises incorporating one or more statistical qualifications.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more statistical qualifications comprises a confidence value attributed to each field of an input record.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more statistical qualifications comprises a confidence value attributed to each field of an output record.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model comprises conditional random fields.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more items of provenance data comprises one or more items of span-level field information.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the detected anomaly comprises a missing data item.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said outputting comprises outputting an identification of one or more problematic modules along with one or more corresponding input records to facilitate correction of the detected anomaly.
12. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: generate, for each of multiple stages in a data curation sequence, a machine learning model of the data curation sequence, thereby updating the model after each subsequent stage, wherein the model is based at least in part on (i) one or more historical input records within the data curation sequence, (ii) one or more historical output records within the data curation sequence, and (iii) one or more items of provenance data within the data curation sequence; create a simulated output record based at least in part on a detected anomaly corresponding to the data curation sequence; predict (i) the content of one or more absent input records that precede the simulated output record in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the simulated output record, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the simulated output record; and output, to at least one user, in response to a query pertaining to the detected anomaly, (i) the content of the one or more predicted input records and (ii) at least one item of information relating the content of the one or more predicted input records to the detected anomaly.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: predict (i) the content of a second set of one or more input records that precede the one or more predicted input records in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the content of the one or more predicted input records, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the content of the one or more predicted input records
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the program instructions executable by a computing device further cause the computing device to: repeat said predicting for (i) one or more additional sets of input records and (ii) one or more additional corresponding sets of provenance data.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the machine learning model learns correspondences between record fields and character-level spans recorded by one or more items of provenance data.
16. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein said generating the machine learning model comprises incorporating one or more statistical qualifications.
17. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor operably coupled to the memory and configured for: generating, for each of multiple stages in a data curation sequence, a machine learning model of the data curation sequence, thereby updating the model after each subsequent stage, wherein the model is based at least in part on (i) one or more historical input records within the data curation sequence, (ii) one or more historical output records within the data curation sequence, and (iii) one or more items of provenance data within the data curation sequence; creating a simulated output record based at least in part on a detected anomaly corresponding to the data curation sequence; predicting (i) the content of one or more absent input records that precede the simulated output record in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the simulated output record, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the simulated output record; and outputting, to at least one user, in response to a query pertaining to the detected anomaly, (i) the content of the one or more predicted input records and (ii) at least one item of information relating the content of the one or more predicted input records to the detected anomaly.
18. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising steps of: generating, for each of multiple stages in a data curation sequence, a machine learning model of the data curation sequence, thereby updating the model after each subsequent stage, wherein the model is based at least in part on (i) historical input records preceding the stage in question, (ii) historical output records subsequent to the stage in question, and (iii) one or more items of provenance data pertaining to the stage in question; creating a simulated output record based at least in part on a detected anomaly corresponding to the data curation sequence; predicting (i) the content of one or more absent input records that precede the simulated output record in the data curation sequence and (ii) one or more items of provenance data corresponding to the simulated output record, wherein said predicting comprises applying the machine learning model to the simulated output record; calculating a confidence value for each field within the one or more predicted input records; repeating said predicting for (i) one or more additional sets of input records and (ii) one or more additional corresponding sets of provenance data; and outputting, to at least one user, in response to a query pertaining to the detected anomaly, (i) the content of all of the predicted input records, (ii) the calculated confidence values, and (iii) at least one item of information relating the predicted input records to the detected anomaly; wherein the steps are carried out by at least one computing device.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the machine learning model learns correspondences between record fields and character-level spans recorded by one or more items of provenance data.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the one or more items of provenance data comprises one or more items of span-level field information.
</claims>
</document>
