<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F03D17/00,F03D7/02,F03D7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLUWAVE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARROKHABADI, MOSTAFA
MOMTAHAN, PARHAM
PAUL, DEVASHISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583666
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR HYPER SHORT-TERM WIND POWER PREDICTION USING REAL-TIME WIND PARAMETER MEASUREMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for short term wind power prediction using real time wind speed measurements is disclosed. The method includes receiving at least one real-time characteristic associated with at least one wind turbine, maintaining a database of characteristics associated with the at least one wind turbines, training a machine learning model based on one or both of the database of characteristics and the at least one characteristic, testing the accuracy of the at least one machine learning model and outputting from the machine learning model generated output data based on the training and testing data. Responsive to determining that the accuracy exceeds a predetermined value, one or both of wind speed and energy output of the at least one wind turbine can be calculated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting wind speed and energy output of at least one wind turbine, the method comprising: receiving at least one real-time characteristic associated with the at least one wind turbines; maintaining a database of characteristics, each characteristic being associated with at least one wind turbine; providing a set of training data to at least one machine learning model associated with the at least one wind turbine made up of records with each record containing one or both of the database of characteristics and the at least one real time characteristic; testing the at least one machine learning model until an accuracy satisfies a defined threshold and extracting test data from the at least one machine model; outputting from the at least one machine learning model generated output data based on the training data and the test data; and responsive to determining that the threshold exceeds a predetermined value, calculating one or both of wind speed and energy output of the at least one wind turbine, the calculation being based on the output of the at least one machine learning model associated with the least one wind turbine, and wherein the calculating includes calculating the wind speed and power output within a time-interval range of 5 to 30 seconds.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic includes one or more context parameters of an environment of the at least one wind turbine.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the at least one wind turbine in a predetermined configuration.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the predetermined configuration is a symmetric configuration about one or more of a horizontal or vertical plane.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic is one or more of terrain profile, longitude, latitude, grid coordinates, elevation, contour lines, microclimate type, seasonal forecast, wind speed, and solar exposure.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the machine learning model is a neural network.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising controlling one or more operable elements of the at least one wind turbine based on the calculated wind speed or energy output of the at least one wind turbine.
8. A computer program product for predicting wind speed and energy output of at least one wind turbine, the computer program product comprising a computer readable medium storing program code, wherein the program code, when run on a computer, causes the computer to: receive at least one real-time characteristic associated with the at least one wind turbines; maintain a database of characteristics, each characteristic being associated with at least one wind turbine; provide a set of training data to at least one machine learning model associated with the at least one wind turbine made up of records with each record containing one or both of the database of characteristics and the at least one real time characteristic; test the at least one machine learning model until an accuracy satisfies a defined threshold and extract test data from the at least one machine model; output from the at least one machine learning model generated output data based on the training data and the test data; and responsive to determining that the threshold exceeds a predetermined value, calculate one or both of wind speed and energy output of the at least one wind turbine, the calculation being based on the output of the at least one machine learning model associated with the least one wind turbine, and wherein the calculating includes calculating the wind speed and power output within a time-interval range of 5 to 30 seconds.
9. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic includes one or more context parameters of an environment of the at least one wind turbine.
10. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the predetermined configuration is a symmetric configuration about one or more of a horizontal or vertical plane.
11. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic is one or more of terrain profile, longitude, latitude, grid coordinates, elevation, contour lines, microclimate type, seasonal forecast, wind speed, and solar exposure.
12. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the machine learning model is a neural network.
13. A system for predicting wind speed and energy output of at least one wind turbine, the system comprising: one or more instruments operable to measure at least one real-time characteristic associated with at least one wind turbine; a processor; a memory coupled to the processor, the memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to: receive at least one real-time characteristic associated with the at least one wind turbines; maintain a database of characteristics, each characteristic being associated with at least one wind turbine; provide a set of training data to at least one machine learning model associated with the at least one wind turbine made up of records with each record containing one or both of the database of characteristics and the at least one real time characteristic; test the at least one machine learning model until an accuracy satisfies a defined threshold and extract test data from the at least one machine model; output from the at least one machine learning model generated output data based on the training data and the test data; and responsive to determining that the threshold exceeds a predetermined value, calculate one or both of wind speed and energy output of the at least one wind turbine, the calculation being based on the output of the at least one machine learning model associated with the least one wind turbine, and wherein the calculating includes calculating the wind speed and power output within a time-interval range of 5 to 30 seconds.
14. The system of claim 13 further comprising one or more operable elements for controlling the at least one more wind turbine based on the calculated wind speed or energy output of the at least one wind turbine.
15. The system of claim 13 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic includes one or more context parameters of an environment of the at least one wind turbine.
16. The system of claim 13 wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise instructions that, when executed by the processor, further cause the system to arrange the at least one wind turbine in a predetermined configuration.
17. The system of claim 13 wherein the predetermined configuration is a symmetric configuration about one or more of a horizontal or vertical plane.
18. The system of claim 13 wherein the at least one real-time characteristic is one or more of terrain profile, longitude, latitude, grid coordinates, elevation, contour lines, microclimate type, seasonal forecast, wind speed, and solar exposure.
19. The system of claim 13 wherein the machine learning model is a neural network.
20. The system of claim 13 wherein the computer-executable instructions further comprise instructions that, when executed by the processor, further cause the system to control one or more operable elements of the at least one wind turbine based on the calculated wind speed or energy output of the at least one wind turbine.
</claims>
</document>
