<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W50/14,G01C21/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Nain Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKANO, YUSUKE
YAMAMOTO KENTARO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67614761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Audio information providing system, control method, and non-transitory computer readable medium
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided an audio information providing system that can solve the problem with the audio lag and includes navigation with higher accuracy. The audio information providing system is an audio guidance system including an audio output device that is worn in the ear of a user and an information processing terminal that is communicatively connected to the audio output device. The audio output device includes: an audio output unit configured to output audio to the ear of the user; and a detection unit configured to detect the direction of the head of the user. The information processing terminal includes: a position information acquiring unit configured to acquire a current position of the user; and a generation unit configured to generate audio data which is used for the audio output unit to output audio guidance for a route to a destination to which the user moves from a direction of the destination relative to the direction of the head of the user on the basis of a relationship among position information of the destination, the current position of the user, and information on the direction of the head of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An audio information providing system, comprising: an audio output device that is worn in the ear of a user, and an information processing terminal that is communicatively connected to the audio output device, wherein the audio output device includes: an audio output unit configured to output audio to the ear of the user; and a detection unit configured to detect a direction of the head of the user, and wherein the information processing terminal includes: a position information acquiring unit configured to acquire a current position of the user; and a generation unit configured to generate audio data which is used for the audio output unit to output audio guidance for a route to a destination to which the user moves from a direction of the destination relative to the direction of the head of the user on the basis of a relationship among position information of the destination, the current position of the user, and information on the direction of the head of the user.
2. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the information processing terminal further includes a prediction unit configured to predict a stop position of a change of the direction of the head when the detection unit detects the start of the change of the direction of the head of the user, and wherein the generation unit is configured to generate the audio data using information on the stop position predicted by the prediction unit as the information on the direction of the head of the user.
3. The audio information providing system according to claim 2, wherein the prediction unit is configured to predict the stop position of a change of the direction of the head on the basis of learned data associated with the direction of the head of the user which is stored in a predetermined storage device.
4. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit is configured to generate the audio data additionally on the basis of information on movement of the user.
5. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit is configured to generate the audio data in which content of the audio guidance is changed on the basis of the direction of the head of the user acquired from the detection unit and information on a movement direction of the user.
6. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit is configured to generate the audio data on the basis of information on the current position of the user and a direction of a sight line of the user based on information on the direction of the head of the user detected by the detection unit when the sight line of the user is directed to a predetermined point for a predetermined time or more.
7. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the information processing terminal further includes a reception unit configured to receive information on external audio data associated with a predetermined external service, and wherein the generation unit is configured to select the external audio data as the audio data which is output from the audio output unit on the basis of the direction of the head of the user.
8. The audio information providing system according to claim 1, wherein the information processing terminal further includes a transmission unit configured to transmit the position information of the user and the information on the direction of the head of the user in the position information to a predetermined information processing device in correlation with each other, and wherein the predetermined information processing device includes a determination unit configured to determine a place on which sight lines of a plurality of users are concentrated on a three-dimensional map on the basis of the position information of the plurality of users and the information on the directions of the heads thereof.
9. (canceled)
10. (canceled)
11. A control method for an audio output device that is worn in the ear of a user causing the audio output device to perform: a step of outputting audio to the ear of the user; and a step of detecting a direction of the head of the user, wherein the step of outputting audio includes outputting audio based on audio data which is used to output audio guidance for a route to a destination to which the user moves from a direction of the destination relative to the direction of the head of the user and which is generated by the information processing terminal on the basis of a relationship among position information of the destination, a current position of the user, and information on the direction of the head of the user.
12. (canceled)
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium including executable instructions, which, when executed by a computer of an audio output device that is worn in the ear of a user, cause the computer to execute a method comprising: a step of connecting communicatively to an information processing terminal; a step of outputting audio to the ear of the user; and a step of detecting a direction of the head of the user, wherein the step of outputting audio includes outputting audio based on audio data which is used to output audio guidance for a route to a destination to which the user moves from a direction of the destination relative to the direction of the head of the user and which is generated by the information processing terminal on the basis of a relationship among position information of the destination, a current position of the user, and information on the direction of the head of the user.
</claims>
</document>
