<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N19/164,H04N19/597,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOPALAKRISHNAN, VIJAY
HAN BO
HAO, SHUAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406757
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, SYSTEMS AND DEVICES FOR ADJUSTING PANORAMIC VIEW OF A CAMERA FOR CAPTURING VIDEO CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, embodiments for selecting a first camera from one or more cameras communicatively coupled to a computing device. Further embodiments include adjusting a first hardware controller on the first camera in response to detecting a network condition of a communication network resulting in an adjusted first camera. Additional embodiments include capturing first video content with the adjusted first camera. Also, embodiments include transmitting the first video content to a video content server over the communication network. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network; responsive to the detecting: selecting a first camera from one or more cameras communicatively coupled to the device; adjusting, according to the network condition, a first hardware controller on the first camera to reduce a scope of images captured by the first camera, wherein the adjusting results in an adjusted first camera, and wherein reducing the scope of images captured by the first camera decreases bandwidth usage of the communication network by the first camera; and capturing first video content with the adjusted first camera.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting the first video content to a video content server over the communication network.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the first video content is panoramic video content.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the first hardware controller on the first camera comprises adjusting a first panoramic view captured by the first camera, wherein a first range of the first panoramic view is from 180 degrees to 360 degrees.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise calculating a threshold for each portion of video content being transmitted to a video content server over the communication network according to the network condition.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: re-adjusting the first hardware controller on the adjusted first camera in response to determining a first portion of the first video content is above a threshold resulting in a re-adjusted first camera; capturing second video content with the re-adjusted first camera; and transmitting the second video content to a video content server over the communication network in response to determining a second portion of the second video content is below the threshold.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the second video content is panoramic video content.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting a second camera from the one or more cameras in response to determining a third portion of the first video content is above a threshold; adjusting a second hardware controller on the second camera in response to detecting the network condition resulting in an adjusted second camera; capturing third video content with the second camera; and transmitting the third video content to a video content server over the communication network in response to determining a fourth portion of the third video content is below the threshold.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the third video content is panoramic video content.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the adjusting of the second hardware controller on the second camera comprises adjusting a second panoramic view captured by the second camera, wherein a second range of the second panoramic view is from 180 degrees to 360 degrees.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the network condition comprises an available bandwidth, capacity, latency, throughput, jitter, or any combination thereof, wherein the detecting of the network condition comprises detecting that the network condition does not satisfy a network criterion.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the first hardware controller on the first camera comprises adjusting the first hardware controller on the first camera in response to detecting an object of interest with a sensor.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the sensor comprises one of an image sensor and a motion sensor.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the sensor is communicatively coupled to the first camera.
15. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network; responsive to the detecting: selecting a first camera from one or more cameras communicatively coupled to a computing device; adjusting a first hardware controller on the first camera according to the network condition and in response to detecting an object of interest with a sensor to reduce a scope of images captured by the first camera, wherein the adjusting results in an adjusted first camera, and wherein reducing the scope of images captured by the first camera decreases bandwidth usage of the communication network by the first camera; capturing first video content with the adjusted first camera; and transmitting the first video content to a video content server over the communication network.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting a second camera from the one or more cameras in response to determining a first portion of the first video content is above a threshold; adjusting a second hardware controller on the second camera in response to detecting the network condition resulting in an adjusted second camera; capturing second video content with the second camera; and transmitting the second video content to the video content server over the communication network in response to determining a second portion of the second video content is below the threshold.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first video content is panoramic video content and the second video content is panoramic video content, wherein the adjusting of the first hardware controller on the first camera comprises adjusting a first panoramic view captured by the first camera, wherein a first range of the first panoramic view is from 180 degrees to 360 degrees, and wherein the adjusting of the second hardware controller on the second camera comprises adjusting a second panoramic view captured by the second camera, wherein a second range of the second panoramic view is from 180 degrees to 360 degrees.
18. A method, comprising: detecting, by a processing system including a processor, a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network; responsive to the detecting: selecting, by the processing system, a first camera from a plurality of cameras, wherein the first camera has a first range of a first panoramic view; capturing, by the processing system, first video content with the first camera; selecting, by the processing system, a second camera from the plurality of cameras in response to detecting, by the processing system, a portion of the first video content is above a threshold; capturing, by the processing system, second video content with the second camera; and transmitting, by the processing system, the second video content to a video content server over the communication network.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising adjusting, by the processing system, a hardware controller on the second camera in response to detecting, by the processing system, an object of interest with a sensor resulting in an adjusted second camera.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the first video content is panoramic video content and the second video content is panoramic video content.
</claims>
</document>
