<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B07C5/36,B07C5/38,B41J11/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELECTRONICS FOR IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCBRIDE, JAMES MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229543
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SHAPE PACKING TECHNIQUE
</title>

<abstract>
A shape packing technique is introduced that can be applied in various applications such as automated print production. In an example embodiment, items that are to be placed into a target shape are sorted based on size to form item groups that include similarly sized items. Potential blocks including arrangements of one or more items are created from the sorted item groups. A placement solution is then generated by placing the potential blocks in the target shape using a recursive process that avoids redundant placement solutions until all of the potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed. The placement solution can then be utilized, for example, to control a printer to print multiple images on a substrate and/or to control an automated cutting device to cut the substrate into multiple partitions according to the placement solution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computer system, an input indicative of a plurality of items to be placed in a target shape, each of the plurality of items having a corresponding shape; in response to the input, sorting the plurality of items into one or more item groups, wherein each of the one or more item groups includes a subset of the plurality of items that satisfy a similarity criterion; defining a plurality of potential blocks, wherein each of the plurality of potential blocks includes an arrangement of one or more items associated with one of the one or more item groups; generating a placement solution by placing one or more of the plurality of potential blocks in the target shape using a recursive process that avoids redundant placement solutions until all of the plurality of potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; and generating an output based on the placement solution.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the placement solution includes: performing a solution generation process that includes: performing a block placement process that includes: placing a potential block of the one or more potential blocks in the target shape; and defining one or more new target shapes based on one or more remainders of the target shape; and recursively repeating the block placement process until all of the potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; repeating the solution generation process to generate a plurality of different candidate placement solutions; comparing the plurality of candidate placement solutions; and selecting a particular candidate placement solution that fills the most area of the target shape.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the block placement process begins by placing a largest potential block of the one or more potential blocks.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein each potential block placed when generating the placement solution must satisfy the following conditions: the potential block includes items that have not yet been placed in the target shape; the potential block fits in the target shape; and the potential block does not represent a potential block that can be produced by a partition to any previously placed potential block.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the target shape, the plurality of items, and the one or more potential blocks are all rectangular in shape.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the output includes any of: generating a print layout based on the placement solution; or generating a cutting pattern based on the placement solution.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the output to an automated production system for processing.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated output includes a cutting pattern, the method further comprising: causing an automated guillotine cutter to cut a substrate into a plurality of partitions corresponding to the plurality of items based on the cutting pattern.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the target shape is based on a shape of the substrate and wherein the plurality of items are based on shapes of partitions of the substrate to be cut from the substrate using the automated guillotine cutter.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated output further includes a print layout, the method further comprising: causing a printer to print a plurality of images corresponding to the plurality of items on the substrate based on the print layout before causing the automated guillotine cutter to cut the substrate based on the cutting pattern.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein sorting the plurality of items into one or more item groups includes inputting dimensions associated with plurality of items into a machine learning model, the machine learning model configured to apply a clustering algorithm to sort the plurality of items into the one or more item groups based on the input dimensions.
12. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory having instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, cause the system to: receive an input indicative of a plurality of items to be placed in a target shape, each of the plurality of items having a corresponding shape; in response to the input, sort the plurality of items into one or more item groups, wherein each of the one or more item groups includes a subset of the plurality of items that satisfy a similarity criterion; defining a plurality of potential blocks, wherein each of the plurality of potential blocks includes an arrangement of one or more items associated with one of the one or more item groups; generate a placement solution by placing one or more of the plurality of potential blocks in the target shape using a recursive process that avoids redundant placement solutions until all of the plurality of potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; and generate an output based on the placement solution.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein generating the placement solution includes: performing a solution generation process that includes: performing a block placement process that includes: placing a potential block of the one or more potential blocks in the target shape; and defining one or more new target shapes based on one or more remainders of the target shape; and recursively repeating the block placement process until all of the potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; repeating the solution generation process to generate a plurality of different candidate placement solutions; comparing the plurality of candidate placement solutions; and selecting a particular candidate placement solution that fills the most area of the target shape.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the block placement process begins by placing a largest potential block of the one or more potential blocks.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein each potential block placed when generating the placement solution must satisfy the following conditions: the potential block includes items that have not yet been placed in the target shape; the potential block fits in the target shape; and the potential block does not represent a potential block that can be produced by a partition to any previously placed potential block.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the target shape, the plurality of items, and the one or more potential blocks are all rectangular in shape.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein generating the output includes any of: generating a print layout based on the placement solution; or generating a cutting pattern based on the placement solution.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the generated output includes a cutting pattern, and wherein the memory has further instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, cause the system to further: cause an automated guillotine cutter to cut a substrate into a plurality of partitions corresponding to the plurality of items based on the cutting pattern.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the generated output further includes a print layout, and wherein the memory has further instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, cause the system to further: cause the printer to print a plurality of images corresponding to the plurality of items on the substrate based on the print layout before causing the automated guillotine cutter to cut the substrate based on the cutting pattern.
20. An automated print production system comprising: a printer; an automated guillotine cutter; and a computer system communicatively coupled to the printer and automated guillotine cutter, the computer system configured to: receive an input indicative of a plurality of images to be printed on a substrate; in response to the input, sort a plurality items corresponding to dimensions of the plurality of images into one or more item groups, wherein each of the one or more item groups includes a subset of the plurality of items that have substantially similar dimensions; define a plurality of potential blocks, wherein each of the plurality of potential blocks includes an arrangement of one or more items associated with one of the one or more item groups; generate a placement solution by placing one or more of the plurality of potential blocks in a target shape corresponding to a shape of the substrate using a recursive process that avoids redundant placement solutions until all of the plurality of potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; generate a print layout and a cutting pattern based on the placement solution; cause the printer to print the plurality of images corresponding to the plurality of items on the substrate based on the print layout; and cause the automated guillotine cutter to cut the substrate into a plurality of partitions corresponding to the plurality of items based on the cutting pattern after the printer has completed printing the plurality of images on the substrate.
21. The print production system of claim 20, wherein generating the placement solution includes: performing a solution generation process that includes: performing a block placement process that includes: placing a potential block of the one or more potential blocks in the target shape; and defining one or more new target shapes based on one or more remainders of the target shape; and recursively repeating the block placement process until all of the potential blocks are placed or no other potential blocks are able to be placed; repeating the solution generation process to generate a plurality of different candidate placement solutions; comparing the plurality of candidate placement solutions; and selecting a particular candidate placement solution that fills the most area of the target shape.
22. The print production system of claim 21, wherein the block placement process begins by placing a largest potential block of the one or more potential blocks.
23. The print production system of claim 20, wherein each potential block placed when generating the placement solution must satisfy the following conditions: the potential block includes items that have not yet been placed in the target shape; the potential block fits in the target shape; and the potential block does not represent a potential block that can be produced by a partition to any previously placed potential block.
24. The print production system of claim 20, wherein the target shape, the plurality of items, and the one or more potential blocks are all rectangular in shape.
25. The print production system of claim 20, wherein the substrate is paper print media.
26. The print production system of claim 20, wherein sorting the plurality of items into one or more item groups includes inputting dimensions associated with plurality of items into a machine learning model, the machine learning model configured to apply a clustering algorithm to sort the plurality of items into the one or more item groups based on the input dimensions.
</claims>
</document>
