<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
RUIKAR, AMEY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732540
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION MECHANISM
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and structures to facilitate anomaly detection, including receiving performance metric data at a database system having a plurality of data point values, processing the plurality of data point values via an optimized Extreme Studentized Deviate (ESD) test to detect one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values, including storing a first set of values representing the largest values of the plurality of data point values and a second set of values representing the smallest values of the plurality of data point values, receiving a first of the plurality of data point values, determining whether the first data point value is to be included in the first set of values or the second set of values and determining that the first data point value is not an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is not to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values and generating an incident alert upon a detection of one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to facilitate anomaly detection, comprising: receiving performance metric data at a database system having a plurality of data point values; processing the plurality of data point values via an optimized Extreme Studentized Deviate (ESD) test to detect one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values, including: storing a first set of values representing largest values of the plurality of data point values and a second set of values representing smallest values of the plurality of data point values; receiving a first of the plurality of data point values; determining whether the first data point value is to be included in the first set of values or the second set of values; and determining that the first data point value is not an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is not to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values; and generating an incident alert upon a detection of one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing an ESD test to determine whether the first data point value is an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a data structure comprising the first set of values and the second set of values.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first set of values and the second set of values comprise a quantity of values corresponding to a maximum quantity of anomalies expected in the dataset.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining a Mean value and a Standard Deviation value for the plurality of data point values prior to generating the data structure.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising updating the Mean value and the Standard Deviation value in response to receiving the first data point value.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting the incident alert upon detection of anomalous usage within the anomaly detection messages.
8. A computing device comprising: at least one physical memory device to store anomaly detection logic; and one or more processors coupled with the at least one physical memory device, the one or more processors configurable to execute the anomaly detection logic to receive performance metric data at a database system having a plurality of data point values, process the plurality of data point values via an optimized Extreme Studentized Deviate (ESD) test to detect one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values, including storing a first set of values representing largest values of the plurality of data point values and a second set of values representing smallest values of the plurality of data point values, receiving a first of the plurality of data point values, determining whether the first data point value is to be included in the first set of values or the second set of values and determining that the first data point value is not an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is not to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values, and generate an incident alert upon a detection of one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values.
9. The computing device of claim 8, anomaly detection logic performs an ESD test to determine whether the first data point value is an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values.
10. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the anomaly detection logic generates a data structure comprising the first set of values and the second set of values.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the first set of values and the second set of values comprise a quantity of values corresponding to a maximum quantity of anomalies expected in the dataset.
12. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the anomaly detection logic determines a Mean value and a Standard Deviation value for the plurality of data point values prior to generating the data structure.
13. The computing device of claim 12, wherein the anomaly detection logic updates the Mean value and the Standard Deviation value in response to receiving the first data point value.
14. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the anomaly detection logic transmits the incident alert upon detection of anomalous usage within the anomaly detection messages.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, are configurable to cause the one or more processors to: receive performance metric data at a database system having a plurality of data point values; process the plurality of data point values via an optimized Extreme Studentized Deviate (ESD) test to detect one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values, including: storing a first set of values representing largest values of the plurality of data point values and a second set of values representing smallest values of the plurality of data point values; receiving a first of the plurality of data point values; determining whether the first data point value is to be included in the first set of values or the second set of values; and determining that the first data point value is not an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is not to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values; and generate an incident alert upon a detection of one or more anomalous data point values within the plurality of data point values.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, are configurable to further cause the one or more processors to perform an ESD test to determine whether the first data point value is an anomalous data point value upon a determination that the first data point value is to be inserted into the first set of values or the second set of values
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, are configurable to further cause the one or more processors to generates a data structure comprising the first set of values and the second set of values.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first set of values and the second set of values comprise a quantity of values corresponding to a maximum quantity of anomalies expected in the dataset.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, are configurable to further cause the one or more processors to determine a Mean value and a Standard Deviation value for the plurality of data point values prior to generating the data structure.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, are configurable to further cause the one or more processors to update the Mean value and the Standard Deviation value in response to receiving the first data point value.
</claims>
</document>
