<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G10L15/08,G10L15/10,G10L15/14,G10L15/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN HAO
DANG, YA BIN
LI QICHENG
LI SHAOCHUN
MA, JIE
MEI, LIJUN
NAHAMOO, DAVID
WANG JIAN
YU, YI PENG
ZHOU XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179390
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Forest inference engine on conversation platform
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, computer program product, and computer processing system are provided for generating inferences from a forest of predefined problem determination trees using a processor-based conversation platform. The method includes selecting a tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees, responsive to user utterances uttered during an inference generating session. The method further includes navigating the tree to allocate a relevant tree node to generate a problem diagnosis question or a problem resolution action by understanding the user utterances among common interaction patterns in problem diagnosis and problem resolution dialogs. The method also includes providing speech for uttering the problem diagnosis question or the problem resolution action to a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating inferences from a forest of predefined problem determination trees using a processor-based conversation platform, the method comprising: selecting a tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees, responsive to user utterances uttered during an inference generating session; navigating the tree to allocate a relevant tree node to generate a problem diagnosis question or a problem resolution action by understanding the user utterances among common interaction patterns in problem diagnosis and problem resolution dialogs; and providing speech for uttering the problem diagnosis question or the problem resolution action to a user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising selecting and applying an applicable answer handler, from a set of answer handlers, to at least some of the user utterances.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the set of answer handlers comprises a forward answer handler for processing additional information from the user to add to a given tree node, the forward answer handler having (i) a memory mode for adding the additional information to the given tree node responsive to the additional information meeting a threshold relevance, and (ii) a bypass mode for sending a question to the user responsive to the given tree node lacking a relevant answer relative to the user utterances.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of answer handlers comprises a repairing answer handler for using at least some of the user utterances to repair an existing answer, based on a user intent determined from the user utterances.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting step comprises switching from one predefined problem determination tree to another predefined problem determination tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the common interaction patterns used to understand the user utterances comprise a no answer pattern relating to when a user fails to provide an answer to a question posed by the system to understand the user utterances.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising traversing a path through the forest having a highest probability based on historical conversational records, responsive to the common interaction pattern comprising the no answer pattern.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said selecting step comprises: traversing entry points of the trees and transferring each of the entry points to a respective vector Vi; transferring the user utterances to a vector V0; calculating, for each of the entry points, a distance di between the vector V0 and the vector Vi, wherein the selected tree has a minimum distance between a given one of the entry points corresponding to the selected tree and the user utterances.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said selecting step comprises transforming the user utterances into a set of key value pairs.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the common interaction patterns used to understand the user utterances comprise a jumping answer pattern relating to the user utterances including additional information other than that requested by a system end of the conversation platform and pertaining to a different problem than originally identified from the user utterances, wherein the additional information in transformed into one or more key value pairs that are merged with existing key value pairs stored by the system end for reevaluation and assignment to a corresponding one of the trees.
11. A computer program product for generating inferences from a forest of predefined problem determination trees using a processor-based conversation platform, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: selecting a tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees, responsive to user utterances uttered during an inference generating session; navigating the tree to allocate a relevant tree node to generate a problem diagnosis question or a problem resolution action by understanding the user utterances among common interaction patterns in problem diagnosis and problem resolution dialogs; and providing speech for uttering the problem diagnosis question or the problem resolution action to a user.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises selecting and applying an applicable answer handler, from a set of answer handlers, to at least some of the user utterances.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the set of answer handlers comprises a forward answer handler for processing additional information from the user to add to a given tree node, the forward answer handler having (i) a memory mode for adding the additional information to the given tree node responsive to the additional information meeting a threshold relevance, and (ii) a bypass mode for sending a question to the user responsive to the given tree node lacking a relevant answer relative to the user utterances.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the set of answer handlers comprises a repairing answer handler for using at least some of the user utterances to repair an existing answer, based on a user intent determined from the user utterances.
15. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the selecting step comprises switching from one predefined problem determination tree to another predefined problem determination tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees.
16. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the common interaction patterns used to understand the user utterances comprise a no answer pattern relating to when a user fails to provide an answer to a question posed by the system to understand the user utterances.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises traversing a path through the forest having a highest probability based on historical conversational records, responsive to the common interaction pattern comprising the no answer pattern.
18. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein said selecting step comprises: traversing entry points of the trees and transferring each of the entry points to a respective vector Vi; transferring the user utterances to a vector V0; calculating, for each of the entry points, a distance di between the vector V0 and the vector Vi, wherein the selected tree has a minimum distance between a given one of the entry points corresponding to the selected tree and the user utterances.
19. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein said selecting step comprises transforming the user utterances into a set of key value pairs.
20. A computer processing system for generating inferences from a forest of predefined problem determination trees using a processor-based conversation platform, the system comprising: a memory for storing program code; and a processor operatively coupled to the memory for running the program code to select a tree from among the forest of predefined problem determination trees, responsive to user utterances uttered during an inference generating session; navigate the tree to allocate a relevant tree node to generate a problem diagnosis question or a problem resolution action by understanding the user utterances among common interaction patterns in problem diagnosis and problem resolution dialogs; and provide speech for uttering the problem diagnosis question or the problem resolution action to a user.
</claims>
</document>
