<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/02,E21B47/04,E21B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANDMARK GRAPHICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
RANGARAJAN, KESHAVA
WESLEY, AVINASH
WINSTON, JOSEPH BLAKE
Taylor, Aimee Jackson
Brumbaugh, Greg Daniel
Vamaraju, Janaki
Huang, Youpeng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68987366
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRILL BIT SUBSYSTEM FOR AUTOMATICALLY UPDATING DRILL TRAJECTORY
</title>

<abstract>
A drill bit subsystem can include a drill bit, a processor, and a non-transitory computer-readable medium for storing instructions and for being positioned downhole with the drill bit. The instructions of the non-transitory computer-readable medium can include a machine-teachable module and a control module that are executable by the processor. The machine-teachable module can receive depth data and rate of drill bit penetration from one or more sensors in a drilling operation, and determine an estimated lithology of a formation at which the drill bit subsystem is located. The control module can use the estimated lithology to determine an updated location of the drill bit subsystem, and control a direction of the drill bit using the updated location and a drill plan.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A drill bit subsystem comprising: a drill bit; a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium for storing instructions and for being positioned downhole with the drill bit, the instructions comprising: a machine-teachable module that is executable by the processor to: receive depth data and rate of drill bit penetration from one or more sensors in a drilling operation; and determine an estimated lithology of a formation at which the drill bit subsystem is located; and a control module that is executable by the processor to: use the estimated lithology to determine an updated location of the drill bit subsystem; and control a direction of the drill bit using the updated location and a drill plan.
2. The drill bit subsystem of claim 1, wherein the estimated lithology includes an entrance and an exit with respect to a type of formation, the entrance being located at a first layer of the type of formation and proximate to a preceding type of formation, and the exit being located at a second layer of the type of formation and proximate to a subsequent type of formation, the preceding type of formation and subsequent type of formation having a different lithology than the type of formation.
3. The drill bit subsystem of claim 2, wherein the machine-teachable module that is executable by the processor to determine an estimated lithology of a formation at which the drill bit subsystem is located is further executable to: determine the entrance and the exit of the type of formation in response to a change in depth data and rate of drill bit penetration received from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation.
4. The drill bit subsystem of claim 1, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium includes instructions for the machine-teachable module to be executable to further: receive a revolution per minute rate of the drill bit, a drill bit diameter, and a weight-on-bit from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation; and use an artificial neural network.
5. The drill bit subsystem of claim 1, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium includes instructions for the drill bit subsystem to operate downhole absent communicating with non-downhole systems.
6. The drill bit subsystem of claim 1, wherein the instructions of the non-transitory computer-readable medium are executable to cause the processor to: receive, from a surface of the drilling operation, a set of instructions including an override command for preventing automated procedures from being performed by the machine-teachable module and the control module; and executing the set of instructions to manually control the direction the drill bit.
7. The drill bit subsystem of claim 1, wherein the machine-teachable module is teachable prior to being utilized downhole using data stored in a system that is separate from the drill bit subsystem.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium for storing instructions and being positioned downhole with a drill bit, the instructions comprising: a machine-teachable module that is executable by a processor to: receive depth data and rate of drill bit penetration from one or more sensors in a drilling operation; and determine an estimated lithology of a formation at which a drill bit subsystem is located; and a control module that is executable by the processor to: use the estimated lithology to determine an updated location of the drill bit subsystem; and control a direction of the drill bit of the drill bit subsystem using the updated location and a drill plan.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the estimated lithology includes an entrance and an exit with respect to a type of formation, the entrance being located at a first layer of the type of formation and proximate to a preceding type of formation, and the exit being located at a second layer of the type of formation and proximate to a subsequent type of formation, the preceding type of formation and subsequent type of formation having a different lithology than the type of formation.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the machine-teachable module that is executable by the processor to determine an estimated lithology of a formation at which the drill bit subsystem is located is further executable to: determine the entrance and the exit of the type of formation in response to a change in depth data and rate of drill bit penetration received from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium includes instructions for the machine-teachable module to: receive a revolution per minute rate of the drill bit, a drill bit diameter, and a weight-on-bit from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation; use the revolution per minute rate of the drill bit, the drill bit diameter, and the weight-on-bit; and use an artificial neural network.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium includes instructions for the drill bit subsystem to operate downhole absent communicating with non-downhole systems.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions are executable to cause the processor to: receive, from a surface of the drilling operation, a set of instructions including an override command for preventing automated procedures from being performed by the machine-teachable module and the control module; and executing the set of instructions to manually control the direction the drill bit.
14. A method comprising: receiving, by a machine-teachable module that is executed by a processor and positioned with a drill bit downhole, depth data and rate of drill bit penetration from one or more sensors in a drilling operation using the drill bit; determining, by the machine-teachable module, an estimated lithology of a formation at which a drill bit subsystem that includes the drill bit is located; using, by a control module that is executed by the processor and positioned with the drill bit downhole, the estimated lithology to determine an updated location of the drill bit subsystem; and controlling, by the control module, a direction of the drill bit using the updated location and a drill plan.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the estimated lithology includes an entrance and an exit with respect to a type of formation, the entrance being located at a first layer of the type of formation and proximate to a preceding type of formation, and the exit being located at a second layer of the type of formation and proximate to a subsequent type of formation, the preceding type of formation and subsequent type of formation having a different lithology than the type of formation.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining an estimated lithology of a formation at which the drill bit subsystem is located further includes determining the entrance and the exit of the type of formation in response to a change in depth data and rate of drill bit penetration received from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, by the machine-teachable module, a revolution per minute rate of the drill bit, a drill bit diameter, and a weight-on-bit from the one or more sensors in the drilling operation; using the revolution per minute rate of the drill bit, the drill bit diameter, and the weight-on-bit; and using an artificial neural network.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: operating the drill bit subsystem downhole absent communicating with non-downhole systems.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, by the control module, a set of instructions including an override command from a surface of the drilling operation for preventing automated procedures from being performed by the machine-teachable module and the control module; and executing the set of instructions to manually control the direction the drill bit.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the machine-teachable module is teachable prior to being utilized downhole using data stored in a system that is separate from the drill bit subsystem.
</claims>
</document>
