<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G05B13/02,H04N5/57,H04N5/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KWATRA, SHIKHAR
MUKHERJEE, MAHARAJ
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406659
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT ILLUMINATION AND SOUND CONTROL IN AN INTERNET OF THINGS (IOT) COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for implementing intelligent illumination and sound characteristics control in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment by a processor. An intensity and quality of an illumination and sound characteristics of displayed media content in an IoT computing environment may be monitored and analyzed. A risk factor of one or more users may be estimated for both current settings and a predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content according to the analyzing. The illumination, the sound characteristics, or combination thereof of the displayed media content may be adjusted upon determining the risk factor for the one or more users is above a selected threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, by a processor, for implementing intelligent illumination and sound characteristics control in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment, comprising: analyzing an intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content in the IoT computing environment; estimating a risk factor of one or more users for both current settings and a predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content according to the analyzing; and controlling the illumination, the sound characteristics, or combination thereof of the displayed media content upon determining the risk factor for the one or more users is above a selected threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, further including: monitoring the intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content; learning the risk factor for the one or more users and reaction to the displayed media content; recognizing one or more illumination patterns and sounds associated with the risk factor for the one or more users; and collecting feedback information of the one or more users relating to the displayed media content and the risk factor.
3. The method of claim 1, further including define the risk factor as having a potentially negative impact upon a health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users.
4. The method of claim 1, further including determining the risk factor according a user profile, one or more contextual factors, and one or more characteristics of the displayed media content.
5. The method of claim 1, further including predicting the predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content, or combination thereof according to one or more heuristics of the one or more users.
6. The method of claim 1, further including implementing one or more corrective actions according to monitored behavior of the one or more users, contextual factors, the risk factor, feedback data, detected patterns of discomfort to the health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users in relation to the displayed media content.
7. The method of claim 1, further including determining an interest of the one or more users in thy: displayed media content using one or more IoT computing device.
8. A system for implementing intelligent illumination and sound characteristics control in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: analyze analyzes an intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content in the IoT computing environment; estimate a risk factor of one or more users for both current settings and a predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content according to the analyzing; and control the illumination, the sound characteristics, or combination thereof of the displayed media content upon determining the risk factor for the one or more users is above a selected threshold.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further initialize a machine learning operation to: monitor the intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content; learn the risk factor for the one or more users and reaction to the displayed media content; recognize one or more illumination patterns and sounds associated with the risk factor for the one or more users; and collect feedback information of the one or more users relating to the displayed media content and the risk factor.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further define the risk factor as having a potentially negative impact upon a health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine the risk factor according a user profile, one or more contextual factors, and one or more characteristics of the displayed media content.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further predict the predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content, or combination thereof according to one or more heuristics of the one or more users.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further implement one or more corrective actions according to monitored behavior of the one or more users, contextual factors, the risk factor, feedback data, detected patterns of discomfort to the health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users in relation to the displayed media content.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine an interest of the one or more users in the displayed media content using one or more IoT computing device.
15. A computer program product for implementing intelligent illumination and sound characteristics control in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that analyzes an intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content in the IoT computing environment; an executable portion that estimates a risk factor of one or more users for both current settings and a predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content according to the analyzing; and an executable portion that control the illumination, the sound characteristics, or combination thereof of the displayed media content upon determining the risk factor for the one or more users is above a selected threshold.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that initializes a machine learning operation to: monitor the intensity and quality of the illumination and the sound characteristics of displayed media content; learn the risk factor for the one or more users and reaction to the displayed media content; recognize one or more illumination patterns and sounds associated with the risk factor for the one or more users; and collect feedback information of the one or more users relating to the displayed media content and the risk factor.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: defines the risk factor as having a potentially negative impact upon a health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users; and determines the risk factor according a user profile, one or more contextual factors, and one or more characteristics of the displayed media content.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that predicts the predicted adjustment of the illumination and sound characteristics associated with displayed media content, or combination thereof according to one or more heuristics of the one or more users.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that implements one or more corrective actions according to monitored behavior of the one or more users, contextual factors, the risk factor, feedback data, detected patterns of discomfort to the health state, emotional state, or combination thereof of the one or more users in relation to the displayed media content.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that determines an interest of the one or more users in the displayed media content sing one or more IoT computing device.
</claims>
</document>
