<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01D41/127,A01D75/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHN DEERE
</assignee>

<inventors>
VANDIKE NATHAN R
PALLA, BHANU KIRAN
GILMORE, BRIAN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71527686
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEDERATED HARVESTER CONTROL
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include obtaining first data for at least one operational setting from each of a plurality of harvesters. Second data is obtained for at least one harvesting condition variable experienced by each of the plurality of harvesters that was experienced by each of the plurality of harvesters concurrent with operation of the harvesters with the at least one operational setting. Third data is obtained for at least one performance parameter achieved by each of the another brick in the wall experiencing the at least one harvesting condition variable. A performance driven operational model for harvester setting adjustment is generated with machine learning based upon the first data, the second data and the third data. The operational model is then used to adjust at least one operational setting of a particular harvester experiencing a particular harvesting condition variable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A federated harvester control method comprising: obtaining first data for at least one operational setting from each of a plurality of harvesters; obtaining second data for at least one harvesting condition variable that was experienced by each of the plurality of harvesters concurrent with operation of the harvesters with the at least one operational setting; obtaining third data for at least one performance parameter achieved by each of the plurality of harvesters operating with the at least one operational setting while experiencing the at least one harvesting condition variable; generating, with machine learning, a performance driven operational model for harvester setting adjustment in response to harvesting condition variables based upon the first data, the second data and the third data; and adjusting the least one operational setting of a particular harvester experiencing a particular harvesting condition variable using the operational model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data, the second data and the third data are obtained while each of the plurality of harvesters are in a geographic region, the operational model being valid for the geographic region, and wherein the adjustment to the setting of the particular harvester is made for operation of the particular harvester in the geographic region.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: obtaining fourth data for the at least one operational setting from each of a second plurality of harvesters while operating in a second geographic region; obtaining fifth data for the at least one harvesting condition variable experienced by each of the second plurality of harvesters concurrent with operation of the harvesters at the at least one operational setting; obtaining sixth data for the at least one performance parameter achieved by each of the second plurality of harvesters operating with the at least one operational setting while experiencing the at least one harvesting condition variable; generating, with machine learning, a second performance driven operational model for harvester setting adjustment in response to harvesting condition variables based upon the fourth data, the fifth data and the sixth data, the second performance driven operational model being valid for the second geographic region; and adjusting a setting of a second particular harvester experiencing a second particular harvesting condition variable using the second operational wherein the adjustment to the setting of the second particular harvester is made for operation of the second particular harvester in the second geographic region.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one operational setting comprises a plurality of different operational settings.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of different operational settings have different applied non-zero weighting factors.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving an operator selection of the at least one operational setting from amongst a larger number of selectable operational settings.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one operational setting comprises an operational setting selected from a group of operational settings consisting of: header height; harvester speed, threshing speed, separating speed, threshing clearance, cleaning fan speed; chaffer positions, sieve positions, feed rate, reel position, reel speed, header belt speeds, deck plate positions, header speeds, chopper speed, chopper counter knife position, spreader speeds, and spreader vane positions.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one harvesting condition variable comprises a plurality of different variables.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving an operator selection of the at least one harvesting condition variable from amongst a larger number of selectable harvesting condition variables.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one harvesting condition variable is selected from a group of variables consisting of: grain moisture; biomass moisture, temperature; humidity, wind speed; wind direction; harvester roll; harvester pitch; current grain yield; current biomass yield; crop type; crop variety; soil moisture; soil type; row spacing; weed type; weed density, crop height, plant health index, grain constituent levels, crop downstate, time of day, and sun angle strikes such.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one performance parameter comprises a plurality of performance parameters.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of different performance parameters have different applied non-zero weighting factors.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance driven operational model for harvester setting adjustment in response to harvesting condition variables is based upon a plurality of data points, each data point comprising the first data, the second data and the third data, wherein the plurality of data points are differently weighted based upon at least one of a time at which each data point was generated and a geographic location at which each data point was generated.
14. The method of claim 1 further comprising receiving an operator selection of the at least one performance parameter from amongst a larger number of selectable performance parameters.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one performance parameter comprises a performance parameter selected from a group of performance parameters consisting of: grain yield; weed seed promulgation; biomass yield; stubble height; harvester productivity; grain quality; residue quality; lost grain; and fuel efficiency.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the data for at least one operational setting is sensed by each of the harvesters.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the data for at least one of the at least one operational setting, the at least one harvesting condition variable or the at least one performance parameter is received through operator input.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data, the second data and the third data are obtained within a predefined time window of less than four weeks.
19. A federated harvester controller comprising a non-transitory machine-readable medium containing instructions to direct a processing unit to: obtain a plurality of data points from a plurality of different harvesters, each of the data points comprising at least one performance parameter, at least one associated harvesting condition variable and at least one operational setting, wherein the at least one performance parameter was achieved by the harvester while operating at the at least one operating setting under the at least one harvesting condition variable; generate, with machine learning, a performance driven operational model for harvester setting adjustment in response to harvesting condition variables based upon the plurality of data points; and transmit the operational model to an operational setting controller of a particular harvester for use in adjusting a setting of the particular harvester experiencing a particular harvesting condition variable.
20. A harvester under federated control, the harvester comprising: a header comprising a plurality of interacting crop gathering components for gathering a crop from the growing medium; a separation unit comprising a plurality of interacting crop separation components for separating a targeted portion of the gathered crop from a non-targeted portion of the gathered crop; and a controller to adjust at least one component of the crop gathering components and the crop separation components based upon a performance driven operational model generated through condition variable data and performance data obtained from a plurality of other harvesters.
</claims>
</document>
