<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANSYS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, NORMAN
DING, HUI
KUMAR, AKHILESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71099503
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MACHINE LEARNING BASED RISKY CIRCUIT PATTERN IDENTIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Machine assisted systems and methods for detecting unreliable circuit patterns are described. These systems and methods can use a machine learning classifier, that has been trained to recognize such circuit patterns, to detect the unreliable circuit patterns without requiring computationally expensive simulations of a circuit netlist which can be over a million devices (e.g. over a million FETs). The classifier, once trained, can recognize unreliable circuit patterns quickly and can be updated over time as new unreliable circuit patterns are discovered from simulations or other sources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing executable program instructions which when executed by a data processing system cause the data processing system to perform a method comprising: receiving a circuit netlist; comparing the circuit netlist to a plurality of circuit patterns in a database, each of the plurality of circuit patterns in the database including at least one device that is unreliable; determining, by a trained classifier, whether the circuit netlist includes a portion of the circuit netlist that contains at least one device that is unreliable.
2. The medium, as in claim 1, wherein the comparing comprises: matching, based upon connections between devices, the plurality of circuit patterns in the database to portions of the circuit netlist and providing one or more matched portions, from the matching, to the trained classifier and providing device and operating parameters for the one or more matched portions to the trained classifier.
3. The medium, as in claim 2, wherein the trained classifier is trained using the plurality of circuit patterns in the database to recognize circuit patterns in a netlist that include at least one unreliable device.
4. The medium, as in claim 3, wherein the portion of the circuit netlist that contains at least one device that is unreliable is one of the one or more matching portions and wherein the method further comprises: generating a matching score for the portion with a corresponding circuit pattern in the database.
5. The medium, as in claim 4, wherein the trained classifier is one of: (1) a trained neutral network; or (2) a trained random forest of decision trees; or (3) a trained classifier based on a gradient based boosting method or any machine learning based classifier
6. The medium, as in claim 2, wherein the matching performs similarity and exact topology matching, based upon connections between devices, between the plurality of circuit patterns and portions of the circuit netlist.
7. The medium, as in claim 4, wherein at least a subset of the plurality of circuit patterns in the database were added to the database as a result of outputs from simulations of other circuit netlists that indicated at least one circuit in the subset was unreliable.
8. The medium, as in claim 2, wherein one or more matched portions are identified without performing simulations, of the circuit netlist, that seek to identify unreliable circuits in the circuit netlist.
9. The medium, as in claim 1, wherein at least one device is unreliable because of one or more of the following: (1) a device is prone to failure due to electrostatic discharge; (2) a device is prone to failure due to electrical overstress; (3) a device is prone to failure due to aging or electromigration; (4) incorrect bias on one or more devices; (5) excessive over voltage across a junction; or (6) excessive current through a junction or channel.
10. The medium, as in claim 1, wherein the plurality of circuit patterns includes one or more variations, for at least a first circuit pattern in the plurality of circuit patterns, of the first circuit pattern that is topologically different than the first circuit pattern but is also unreliable.
11. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing executable program instructions which when executed by a data processing system cause the data processing system to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving outputs, from one or more circuit simulations, of one or more entire circuits, the circuit simulations indicating one or more unreliable devices in each of the one or more entire circuits; extracting, from each of the one or more entire circuits, at least one circuit pattern that is a subset of the entire circuit and contains one or more unreliable devices to provide one or more extracted circuit patterns; training a classifier to recognize an unreliable circuit pattern in an input circuit netlist, the classifier trained by using each of the one or more extracted circuit patterns as inputs to and expected outputs of the classifier during training.
12. The medium, as in claim 11, wherein the extracting comprises extracting one or more circuit parameters that include one or more structural data or operational data for each of the one or more of the extracted circuit patterns.
13. The medium, as in claim 12, wherein the one or more extracted circuit patterns are stored in a circuit template database, that is used as a training data source to train the classifier.
14. The medium, as in claim 13, wherein the extracting initially extracts an unreliable device and one or more neighboring devices connected to the unreliable device for an initial selection and the extracting extends the initial selection to one or more additional neighboring devices to extract enough to allow recognition of a circuit pattern that is unreliable and resembles the extracted circuit pattern.
15. The medium, as in claim 14, wherein the extension of the initial selection is minimal to avoid including excess devices that are not needed to distinguish between an unreliable circuit and a similar but reliable circuit.
16. The medium, as in claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: generating one or more variations of each of the one or more extracted circuit patterns.
17. The medium, as in claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: pruning at least one of the generated variations.
18. The medium, as in claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: generating one or more variations of each of the one or more extracted circuit patterns.
19. The medium, as in claim 13, wherein the classifier is of: (1) a neutral network; or (2) a random forest of decision trees; or (3) a classifier that is based on a gradient based boosting method or any machine learning based classifier
20. The medium, as in claim 19, wherein the one or more unreliable devices are unreliable because of one of more of: (1) prone to failure due to electrostatic discharge; (2) prone to failure due to electrical overstress; (3) prone to failure due to aging or electromigration; (4) incorrect bias on one or more devices; (5) excessive over voltage across a junction; or (6) excessive current through a junction or channel or any other reliability issue arising due to a circuit pattern
21. The medium, as in claim 13, wherein the receiving of outputs occurs (1) serially over time such that simulations for a first circuit netlist are received and processed to train the classifier and then simulations for a second circuit netlist are received and processed to train the classifier, or (2) concurrently from multiple sources of the simulations.
</claims>
</document>
