<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10,G06K9/32,G06T11/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/50,G06T7/00,G16H30/20,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE CO., LTD., Shanghai, CHINA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO, WENJING
QUAN, GUOTAO
SUN, HAINING
BAO, YUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65695397
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DIAGNOSTIC AND TREATMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include obtaining first image data relating to a region of interest (ROI) of a first subject. The first image data corresponding to a first equivalent dose level may be acquired by a first device. The method may also include obtaining a model for denoising relating to the first image data and determining second image data corresponding to an equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level based on the first image data and the model for denoising. In some embodiments, the method may further include determining information relating to the ROI of the first subject based on the second image data and recording the information relating to the ROI of the first subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor and at least one computer-readable storage medium, the method comprising: obtaining first image data relating to a region of interest (ROI) of a first subject, the first image data corresponding to a first equivalent dose level; obtaining a model for denoising relating to the first image data; determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to a second equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level; determining, based on the second image data, first information relating to the ROI of the first subject; obtaining second information relating to the ROI of the first subject from a treatment plan of the first subject; and adjusting, based on the second information relating to the ROI and the first information relating to the ROI, a position of the first subject in space.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the model for denoising includes a first neural network model for denoising, and the obtaining a model for denoising, further includes: obtaining multiple groups of training data relating to multiple second subjects, each group of the multiple groups of training data relating to a second subject, each of the multiple groups of training data including third image data corresponding to a third equivalent dose level and fourth image data corresponding to a fourth equivalent dose level lower than the third equivalent dose level; and training, based on the multiple groups of training data, a neural network model to obtain the first neural network model for denoising.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the model for denoising includes a first neural network model for denoising, and the obtaining a model for denoising, further includes: obtaining multiple groups of training data relating to multiple second subjects, each group of the multiple groups of training data relating to a second subject, each of the multiple groups of training data including third image data corresponding to a third equivalent dose level and fourth image data corresponding to a fourth equivalent dose level lower than the third equivalent dose level; training, based on the multiple groups of training data, a neural network model to obtain a second neural network model for denoising; obtaining fifth image data relating to the first subject, the fifth image data corresponding to a fifth equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level; and training, based on the fifth image data relating to the first subject, the second neural network model for denoising to obtain the first neural network model for denoising.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first image data is acquired by a first device, and the fourth image data is acquired by the first device or by a second device different from the first device.
5. (canceled)
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising preprocessing at least one of the first image data or the fourth image data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to a second equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level, further includes: determining, based on the model for denoising and the first image data, noise data included in the first image data; and determining, based on the noise data and the first image data, the second image data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the model for denoising includes an image reconstruction model using an iterative reconstruction algorithm.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the image reconstruction model includes a first statistical model of noises in a projection domain, the first image data includes first projection data, and the determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to a second equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level, further includes: processing, based on the first statistical model of noises in the projection domain, the first projection data to obtain second projection data; generating, based on the second projection data, a first image; generating, based on the first statistical model of noises, a second statistical model of noises in an image domain; and determining, based on the first image and the second statistical model of noises, the second image data including a second image relating to the ROI of the first subject.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the first image data includes first projection data, the second image data includes a target image relating to the ROI of the first subject, the image reconstruction model include includes at least one of a first statistical model of noises in a projection domain or a second statistical model of noises in an image domain, and the determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to a second equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level, further includes: determining third projection data indicating a difference between the first projection data and second projection data corresponding to an image estimation; determining, based on the third projection data and the first statistical model of noises, fourth projection data; generating, based on the fourth projection data, an error image relating to the ROI of the first subject; and determining, based on the error image and the second statistical model of noises, the target image relating to the ROI of the first subject.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining, based on the error image and the second statistical model of noises, the target image relating to the ROI of the first subject, further includes: iteratively determining, based on the error image and the second statistical model of noises, a value of an objective function in each iteration, including updating the image estimation after each iteration based on the value of the objective function obtained in a most recent iteration; and determining the target image until a condition is satisfied.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the objective function further includes a first regularization item for suppressing noise.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the objective function further includes a second regularization item associated with sparsity of the first projection data for suppressing artifact.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first equivalent dose level is no less than 15% of the second equivalent dose level.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the first equivalent dose level is no less than 50% of the second equivalent dose level.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the first equivalent dose level is no less than 85% of the second equivalent dose level.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image data is acquired by a computed tomography (CT), and a ratio of the first equivalent dose level to the second equivalent dose level is equal to 1:7.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image data is acquired by a cone beam computed tomography (CBCT), and a ratio of the first equivalent dose level to the second equivalent dose level is equal to 1:3.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image data is acquired by a radiotherapy treatment (RT) device.
20. 20-25. (canceled)
26. A method for radiation delivery, the method comprising: obtaining first image data relating to a region of interest (ROI) of subject before or during or after a treatment, the first image data corresponding to a first equivalent dose level; obtaining a model for denoising relating to the first image data; determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to an equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level; determining, based on the second image data, first information relating to the ROI of the subject; and modifying, based on the first information relating to the ROI and second information relating to the ROI in a treatment plan of the subject, the treatment plan of the subject.
27. (canceled)
28. A planning method for a treatment, the method comprising: obtaining first image data relating to a region of interest (ROI) of a subject, the first image data corresponding to a first equivalent dose level; obtaining a model for denoising relating to the first image data; determining, based on the first image data and the model for denoising, second image data corresponding to an equivalent dose level higher than the first equivalent dose level; determining, based on the second image data, information relating to the ROI of the subject; and determining, based on the information relating to the ROI, a treatment plan of the subject.
</claims>
</document>
