<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/564,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEALTHTELL
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERWIEN, ROBERT WILLIAM
MELNICK, JONATHAN SCOTT
TARASOW, THEODORE MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60783571
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR DIFFERENTIAL DIAGNOSIS OF AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are methods, assays and devices for the differential diagnosis and detection of disease progression of autoimmune diseases. The methods, assays and devices provided herein produce and analyze binding patterns of peripheral-blood antibodies on mimetic peptide arrays that differentiate autoimmune diseases, and identify patients progressing to internal organ complications such as interstitial lung disease (ILD), and gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE), or renal involvement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of making a differential diagnosis of an autoimmune disease, said method comprising: (a) contacting a sample from a subject to an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ; (b) detecting the binding of antibodies present in said sample to at least 25 peptides on said array to obtain a combination of binding signals; and (c) comparing said combination of binding signals to one or more groups of combinations of reference binding signals, wherein at least one of each of said group of combinations of reference binding signals are obtained from a plurality of reference subjects known to have a disease different from the autoimmune disease of the subject, thereby enabling the differential diagnosis of said subject for the autoimmune disease, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) between the autoimmune disease and each of the group of combinations of reference binding signals being greater than 0.6.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of said combination of reference binding signals is obtained by detecting the binding of antibodies present in a sample from each of said plurality of subjects in said reference group to said at least 25 peptides on an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the difference between said combination of binding signals and said combination of said reference binding signals to said at least 25 peptides determines said differential diagnosis.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said different disease is an autoimmune disease.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (d) comparing said combination of binding signals to a reference binding signal obtained from a plurality of reference subjects known to have the autoimmune disease.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein said autoimmune-disease is dermatomyositis (DM), and said different autoimmune disease is scleroderma (SSc).
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected from serine, glycine, tyrosine, arginine, alanine, glutamine and valine when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 13A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the binding signal from said subject to a combination of reference binding signals obtained from healthy subjects.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected from tyrosine, lys, arginine, phenylalanine, serine, tryptophan, glycine, and alanine.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 5A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected from tyrosine, tryptophan, serine, glycine, aspartic acid, and phenylalanine.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 17A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and wherein said one group of reference binding signals comprises a combination of binding signals obtained from a plurality of subjects having other autoimmune diseases comprising Mixed Connective Tissue Disease (MCTD), Undifferentiated Connective Tissue Disease (UCTD), myositis, polymyositis, systemic lupus erythomatosus, and morphea.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected aspartic acid, glutamic acid, proline, valine, glycine, and serine.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 7A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and wherein said one group of reference binding signals comprises a combination of binding signals obtained from a plurality of subjects having other autoimmune diseases comprising MCTD, UCTD, myositis, polymyositis, systemic lupus erythomatosus, and morphea.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected lysine, histidine, serine, arginine, glutamic acid, alanine, and glycine.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 19A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) ranging from 0.60 to 0.70, 0.70 to 0.79, 0.80 to 0.89, or 0.90 to 1.00.
21. A method for determining disease progression in a subject known to have an autoimmune disease, said method comprising: (a) contacting a sample from a subject to an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ; (b) detecting the binding of antibodies present in said sample to at least 25 peptides on said array to obtain a first combination of binding signals; and (c) comparing said first combination of binding signals to at least a second combination of reference binding signals, wherein said second combination of reference binding signals comprises a combination of binding signals obtained from a reference group comprising a plurality of subjects having a clinical manifestation indicative of progression of said autoimmune disease, thereby making said differential diagnosis, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) being greater than 0.6.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: (d) comparing said combination of binding signals to a reference binding signal obtained from a plurality of reference subjects known to have the autoimmune disease.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein each of said combination of reference binding signals is obtained by detecting the binding of antibodies present in a sample from each of said plurality of subjects in said reference group to said at least 25 peptides on an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the difference between said combination of binding signals and said combination of said reference binding signals to said at least 25 peptides determines said disease progression.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in scleroderma (SSc).
26. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is selected from renal crisis, interstitial lung disease (ILD), and gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE).
27. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in subjects having SSc, and said clinical manifestation is renal crisis.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least 100% in one or more amino acids selected from proline, aspartic acid and glutamic acid when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least in one or more motifs listed in FIG. 9A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
30. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is ILD.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least in one or more amino acids selected from proline, arginine, lysine, histidine, and aspartic acid when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 15A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
33. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is GAVE.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least in one or more amino acids selected from arginine, tyrosine, serine, histidine, lysine, and phenylalanine when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
35. The method of claim 33, wherein said autoimmune disease is SSc, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 11A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
36. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in dermatomyositis (DM).
37. The method of claim 21, wherein said disease progression is determined in DM, and said clinical manifestation is ILD.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched by at least in one or more amino acids selected from proline, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, serine, glycine, and glutamine when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
39. The method of claim 37, wherein said autoimmune disease is DM, and said at least 25 peptides that differentiate said combination of binding signals from said combination of said reference binding signals are enriched in one or more of the motifs listed in FIG. 21A when compared to the at least 10,000 peptides in said array.
40. The method of claim 21, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) ranging from 0.60 to 0.70, 0.70 to 0.79, 0.80 to 0.89, or 0.90 to 1.00.
41. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the subject is human.
42. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the sample is a blood sample.
43. The method of claim 40, wherein the blood sample is selected from whole blood, plasma, or serum.
44. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the sample is a serum sample.
45. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the sample is a plasma sample.
46. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the sample is a dried blood sample.
47. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the at least 10,000 different peptides on the peptide array is at least 5 amino acids in length.
48. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the at least 10,000 different peptides on the peptide array is between 5 and 15 amino acids in length.
49. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the at least 10,000 different peptides are synthesized from less than 20 amino acids.
50. The method of any of the claims above, wherein the at least 10,000 different peptides on the peptide array are synthesized by excluding one or more of cysteine, methionine, isoleucine and threonine.
51. A method for identifying a candidate protein biomarker for an autoimmune disease, said method comprising: (a) identifying a set of discriminating peptides that differentiate said autoimmune disease from one or more different health condition; (b) aligning said set of (discriminating) peptides to proteins in a proteome to obtain an alignment score for said set of discriminating peptides to one or more proteins of said proteome; (d) ranking said identified proteins according to a statistical significance; and (d) identifying said protein as a candidate protein biomarker for treating said autoimmune disease.
52. The method of claim 51, further comprising obtaining an overlap score, wherein said score corrects for the peptide composition of the peptide library.
53. The method of claim 51, further comprising identifying a set of discriminating peptides that differentiate said autoimmune disease from a healthy condition.
54. The method of claim 51, wherein said candidate protein biomarker is selected from targets listed in Table 3.
55. The method of claim 51, wherein said discriminating peptides are identified as having p-values of less than 10−5, less than 10−6, less than 10−7, less than 10−8, less than 10−9, less than 10−10, less than 10−11, less than 10−12, less than 10−13, less than 10−14, or less than 10−15.
56. The method of claim 51, wherein said candidate protein biomarker is ranked according to a p-value of less than less than 10−3, less than less than 10−4, less than less than 10−5, or less than less than 10−6.
57. A system for making a differential diagnosis of an autoimmune disease, the system comprising: (a) an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ, wherein a sample from a subject is contacted to the array; (b) a detector for detecting the binding of antibodies present in said sample to at least 25 peptides on said array to obtain a combination of binding signals; and (c) a digital processing device for analyzing and comparing said combination of binding signals to one or more groups of combinations of reference binding signals, wherein each of said groups of combinations of reference binding signals comprises a combination of binding signals obtained from a plurality of subjects having a different disease, thereby making said differential diagnosis, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) being greater than 0.6.
58. The method of claim 57, wherein said different disease is an autoimmune disease.
59. The method of claim 58, wherein said autoimmune-disease is dermatomyositis (DM), and said different autoimmune disease is scleroderma (SSc).
60. A system for determining disease progression in a subject known to have an autoimmune disease, said method comprising: (a) an array of peptides comprising at least 10,000 different peptides synthesized in situ; (b) a detector for detecting the binding of antibodies present in said sample to at least 25 peptides on said array to obtain a first combination of binding signals; and (c) a digital processing device for analyzing and comparing said first combination of binding signals to at least a second combination of reference binding signals, wherein said second combination of reference binding signals comprises a combination of binding signals obtained from a reference group comprising a plurality of subjects having a clinical manifestation indicative of progression of said autoimmune disease, thereby making said differential diagnosis, wherein the method performance is characterized by an area under the receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve (AUC) being greater than 0.6.
61. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in scleroderma (SSc).
62. The system of claim 61, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is selected from renal crisis, interstitial lung disease (ILD), and gastric antral vascular ectasia (GAVE).
63. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in subjects having SSc, and said clinical manifestation is renal crisis.
64. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is ILD.
65. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in SSc, and said clinical manifestation is GAVE.
66. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in dermatomyositis (DM).
67. The system of claim 60, wherein said disease progression is determined in DM, and said clinical manifestation is ILD.
</claims>
</document>
