<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B82Y40/00,G01N21/21,G01N21/25,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARIELI, URI
MALKIEL, ITZIK
MREJEN, MICHAEL
NAGLER, ACHIYA
SUCHOWSKI, HAIM
WOLF, LIOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63107254
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CHARACTERIZING A NANOSTRUCTURE BY MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
A method of designing a nanostructure, comprises: receiving a far field optical response and material properties; feeding the synthetic far field optical response and material properties to an artificial neural network having at least three hidden layers; and extracting from the artificial neural network a shape of a nanostructure corresponding to the far field optical response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of designing a nanostructure, comprising: receiving a synthetic far field optical response and material properties; feeding said synthetic far field optical response and material properties to an artificial neural network having at least three hidden layers; and extracting from said artificial neural network a shape of a nanostructure corresponding to said far field optical response.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said artificial neural network comprises at least two parallel sets of layers, wherein said far field optical response and material properties are fed to different sets of layers of said artificial neural network.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said far field optical response comprises a spectrum describing a response to a linearly polarized light.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said far field optical response comprises a first spectrum describing a response to a horizontally polarized light, and a second spectrum describing a response to a vertically polarized light.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein said artificial neural network comprises three parallel sets of layers, wherein said first spectrum is fed to a first set of layers, said second spectrum is fed to a second set of layers, and said material properties are fed to third set of layers.
6. The method according to claim 2, wherein all parallel sets of layers have the same number of layers.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises at most five layers.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises three layers.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein said artificial neural network comprises a set of fully connected layers.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein said set of fully connected layers has at least five but no more than eight layers.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein said set of fully connected layers has six layers.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said artificial neural network comprises a bi-directional network having a geometry predicting subnetwork designed to predict a geometry based on spectra and a spectrum predicting subnetwork designed to predict spectra based on geometry.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein said spectrum predicting subnetwork comprises a set of fully connected layers.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said spectrum predicting subnetwork comprises six fully connected layers.
15. The method according to claim 12, wherein each subnetwork comprises the same number of fully connected layers.
16. The method according to claim 12, wherein said geometry predicting subnetwork comprises three parallel sets of layers, and six fully connected layers, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises three layers.
17. A computer software product, comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium in which program instructions are stored, which instructions, when read by a data processor, cause the data processor to receive a synthetic far field optical response and material properties, and to execute the method according to claim 1.
18. A system for designing a nanostructure, comprising a data processor configured to receive a synthetic far field optical response and material properties, and to execute the method according to claim 1.
19. A method of manufacturing a nanostructure, the method comprising: executing the method according to claim 1; and fabricating a nanostructure having said shape from a material having said and material properties.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein said nanostructure serves as a component in a system selected from the group consisting of a sensor, an imager, a medical system injectable into the body of a mammal, a memory medium, a solar cell, a beam shaping system, and an antenna.
21. A method of characterizing a nanostructure, comprising: illuminating the nanostructure by light having a wavelength longer than a longest dimension of the nanostructure; receiving a far field optical response of the nanostructure to said wavelength in response to said light; feeding said far field optical response and material properties of the nanostructure to an artificial neural network having at least three hidden layers; and characterizing at least one state or physical property of the nanostructure base on output of said artificial neural network.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein said light has a wavelength longer than twice said longest dimension of the nanostructure.
23. The method according to claim 21, wherein said artificial neural network comprises at least two parallel sets of layers, wherein said far field optical response and material properties are fed to different sets of layers of said artificial neural network.
24. The method according to claim 21, wherein said far field optical response comprises a spectrum describing a response to a linearly polarized light.
25. The method according to claim 21, wherein said far field optical response comprises a first spectrum describing a response to a horizontally polarized light, and a second spectrum describing a response to a vertically polarized light.
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said artificial neural network comprises three parallel sets of layers, wherein said first spectrum is fed to a first set of layers, said second spectrum is fed to a second set of layers, and said material properties are fed to third set of layers.
27. The method according to claim 23, wherein all parallel sets of layers have the same number of layers.
28. The method according to claim 27, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises at most five layers.
29. The method according to claim 27, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises three layers.
30. The method according to claim 21, wherein said artificial neural network comprises a set of fully connected layers.
31. The method according to claim 30, wherein said set of fully connected layers has at least five but no more than eight layers.
32. The method according to claim 30, wherein said set of fully connected layers has six layers.
33. The method of claim 21, wherein said artificial neural network comprises a bi-directional network having a geometry predicting subnetwork designed to predict a geometry based on spectra and a spectrum predicting subnetwork designed to predict spectra based on geometry.
34. The method according to claim 33, wherein said spectrum predicting subnetwork comprises a set of fully connected layers.
35. The method according to claim 34, wherein said spectrum predicting subnetwork comprises six fully connected layers.
36. The method according to claim 33, wherein said each subnetwork comprises the same number of fully connected layers.
37. The method according to claim 33, wherein said geometry predicting subnetwork comprises three parallel sets of layers, and six fully connected layers, wherein each set of said parallel sets of layers comprises three layers.
38. A computer software product, comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium in which program instructions are stored, which instructions, when read by a data processor, cause the data processor to receive a synthetic far field optical response and material properties, and to execute the method according to claim 21.
39. A system for characterizing a nanostructure, comprising: a light source configured for illuminating the nano structure by light having a wavelength longer than a longest dimension of the nanostructure; a spectrometer configured for receiving a far field optical response of the nanostructure to said wavelength in response to said light; and a data processor configured to receive a said far field optical response and material properties, and to execute the method according to claim 21.
</claims>
</document>
