<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W24/02,H04W24/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRISEBOIS, ARTHUR
CHEN, YE
LEI, HONGYAN
YANG, WEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71105164
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING SERVICE COVERAGE WITH A MEASUREMENT-BASED DYNAMIC THRESHOLD ADJUSTMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, identifying a first application executed by a user equipment, computing a first metric associated with an uplink between the user equipment and a base station over a first network, comparing the first metric with a second metric associated with the execution of the first application by the user equipment, and responsive to the comparing, causing the user equipment to connect to the base station via a second network that is different from the first network. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: configuring the processing system with a first threshold associated with a connecting of the processing system to a network element over a 5G network; receiving a downlink transmission from the network element; detecting that the downlink transmission has a power level that is greater than the first threshold; responsive to the detecting, connecting the processing system to the network element over the 5G network; receiving an indication of an offset from the network element subsequent to the connecting of the processing system to the network element over the 5G network, wherein the receiving of the indication of the offset is based on a link failure between the processing system and the network element over the 5G network; and responsive to the receiving of the indication of the offset, configuring the processing system with a second threshold associated with the connecting of the processing system to the network element over the 5G network, wherein the second threshold is different from the first threshold.
2. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the indication of the offset is based on a count or frequency of uplink failures between the processing system and the network element over the 5G network exceeding a third threshold.
3. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the indication of the offset comprises the offset, and wherein the operations further comprise: computing the second threshold as a summation of the offset and the first threshold.
4. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the indication of the offset comprises a difference in a first performance metric and a second performance metric, and wherein the operations further comprise: mapping the difference to the offset; and computing the second threshold as a summation of the offset and the first threshold.
5. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: connecting the processing system to the network element over a 4G network or an LTE network based on the link failure between the processing system and the network element over the 5G network.
6. The machine-readable medium of claim 5, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, by the processing system, the second threshold based on a state of charge of a battery coupled to the processing system and an identification of a type of communication session that the processing system is engaged in; and connecting the processing system to the network element over the 5G network when a second downlink transmission from the network element has a second power level that is greater than the second threshold.
7. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the configuring of the processing system with the first threshold comprises the processing system receiving the first threshold as a parameter in a message.
8. The machine-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the link failure is a result of a mobility of the processing system, an obstruction in a line of sight between the processing system and the network element, a change in a component quality of the processing system or the network element, a change in network traffic, or any combination thereof.
9. A method comprising: identifying, by a processing system including a processor, a first application executed by a user equipment; computing, by the processing system, a first metric associated with an uplink between the user equipment and a base station over a first network; comparing, by the processing system, the first metric with a second metric associated with the execution of the first application by the user equipment; and responsive to the comparing of the first metric with the second metric, causing, by the processing system, the user equipment to connect to the base station via a second network that is different from the first network.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first network is a 5G network and the second network is a 4G network or an LTE network.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the comparing comprises determining that the first metric is less than the second metric.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: responsive to the comparing, causing, by the processing system, the user equipment to execute a second application that is at least partially different from the first application.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: responsive to the comparing, modifying, by the processing system, a threshold for connecting the user equipment and the base station over the first network.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: subsequent to the causing of the user equipment to connect to the base station via the second network, determining, by the processing system, that traffic in the second network exceeds the threshold; and responsive to the determining that the traffic in the second network exceeds the threshold, causing, by the processing system, the user equipment to reconnect to the base station via the first network.
15. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: identifying a first application executed by a communication device; computing a first metric associated with a downlink between a network element and the communication device over a first network; comparing the first metric with a second metric associated with the execution of the first application by the communication device; and responsive to the comparing of the first metric with the second metric, causing the communication device to execute a second application that is at least partially different from the first application.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the second application provides a function in common with the first application, wherein the first application provides a first level of data-richness in respect of the function, wherein the second application provides a second level of data-richness in respect of the function, and wherein the first level of data-richness is greater than the second level of data-richness.
17. The device of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a third application executed by the communication device; computing a third metric associated with an uplink between the network element and the communication device over the first network; and comparing the third metric with a fourth metric associated with the execution of the third application by the communication device.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: responsive to the comparing of the third metric with the fourth metric, causing the communication device to execute a fourth application that is at least partially different from the third application.
19. The device of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: responsive to the comparing of the third metric with the fourth metric, causing the communication device to connect to the network element over a second network that is different from the first network.
20. The device of claim 15, wherein the first metric includes a signal to noise ratio, a signal to interference plus noise ratio, or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
