<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/17,G06F16/182,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MERCHANT, ARIF
STOKELY, MURRAY M
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52691958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROGRAMMATICALLY CHOOSING PREFERRED STORAGE PARAMETERS FOR FILES IN LARGE-SCALE DISTRIBUTED STORAGE SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving trace data representing access information about files stored in a large-scale distributed storage system, identifying file access patterns based on the trace data, receiving metadata information associated with the files stored in the large-scale distributed storage system, and generating a preferred storage parameter for each file based on the received metadata information and the identified file access patterns. The method also includes receiving, file reliability or accessibility information of a new file, determining whether the received file reliability or accessibility information of the new file matches information of a file group of the files in the large-scale distributed storage system, and when the file reliability or accessibility information of the new file matches the information of the file group, storing the new file in the large-scale distributed storage system using the preferred storage parameter associated with the file group.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a processor, access pattern data for a subset of files within a distributed storage system; determining, by the processor, an access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files based on the access pattern data; assessing, by the processor, a cost for the access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files; determining, by the processor, a preferred storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system based on: a current storage configuration of the subset of files within the distributed storage system; the access pattern behavior for the subset of files within the distributed storage system; and the cost for the access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files, wherein the preferred storage parameter reduces a cost associated with storing the subset of files; and generating, by the processor, an alert for a user of the distributed storage system indicating the preferred storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the access pattern data for the subset of files within the distributed storage system comprises receiving trace data from a monitoring system, the trace data comprising traces corresponding to log files comprising time-ordered records of events associated with the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the access pattern data or the subset of files comprises an access frequency of the subset of file.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying, by the data processor, the subset of files based on at least one of the access pattern data or corresponding storage parameters of the subset of files.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the preferred storage parameter is based on a storage system characteristic of the distributed storage system, the storage system characteristic comprising at least one of: an availability of storage devices of the distributed storage system; a capacity of storage devices of the distributed storage system; or a performance of storage devices of the distributed storage system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the preferred storage parameter satisfies an availability requirement or a reliability requirement associated with the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the preferred storage parameter accommodates the determined access pattern behavior at a reduced cost compared to a current storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert indicates a change in the access pattern for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert indicates file characteristics or storage system characteristics of the distributed storage system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the alert is user-interactive and enables the user to view costs associated with the subset of files and to select whether to apply the preferred storage parameter to the subset of files.
11. A distributed storage system comprising: a processor; and system memory in communication with the processor, the system memory storing instructions that when executed on the processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving access pattern data for a subset of files within a distributed storage system; determining an access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files based on the access pattern data; assessing a cost for the access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files; determining a preferred storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system based on: a current storage configuration of the subset of files within the distributed storage system; the access pattern behavior for the subset of files within the distributed storage system; and the cost for the access pattern behavior associated with the subset of files, wherein the preferred storage parameter reduces a cost associated with storing the subset of files; and generating an alert for a user of the distributed storage system indicating the preferred storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
12. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein receiving the access pattern data for the subset of files within the distributed storage system comprises receiving trace data from a monitoring system, the trace data comprising traces corresponding to log files comprising time-ordered records of events associated with the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
13. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the access pattern data or the subset of files comprises an access frequency of the subset of file.
14. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise identifying the subset of files based on at least one of the access pattern data or corresponding storage parameters of the subset of files.
15. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the preferred storage parameter is based on a storage system characteristic of the distributed storage system, the storage system characteristic comprising at least one of: an availability of storage devices of the distributed storage system; a capacity of storage devices of the distributed storage system; or a performance of storage devices of the distributed storage system.
16. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the preferred storage parameter satisfies an availability requirement or a reliability requirement associated with the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
17. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the preferred storage parameter accommodates the determined access pattern behavior at a reduced cost compared to a current storage parameter for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
18. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the alert indicates a change in the access pattern for the subset of files within the distributed storage system.
19. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the alert indicates file characteristics or storage system characteristics of the distributed storage system.
20. The distributed storage system of claim 11, wherein the alert is user-interactive and enables the user to view costs associated with the subset of files and to select whether to apply the preferred storage parameter to the subset of files.
</claims>
</document>
