<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, SCOTT
DOUGLAS, KEVIN T.
RAMZAN, ZULFIKAR A.
QUACKENBUSH, ED G.
THIELKE, ABRAM
ARUNSKI, KEVIN J.
DAVIS, SASHKA T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608698
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RISK SCORE GENERATION UTILIZING MONITORED BEHAVIOR AND PREDICTED IMPACT OF COMPROMISE
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes monitoring user behavior in an enterprise system, identifying a given user of the enterprise system associated with a given portion of the monitored user behavior, determining a predicted impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system, generating a risk score for the given user based on the predicted impact of compromise and the given portion of the monitored user behavior, and identifying one or more remedial actions to reduce the risk score for the given user. The method also includes implementing, prior to detecting compromise of the given user, at least one of the remedial actions to modify a configuration of at least one asset in the enterprise system, the at least one asset comprising at least one of a physical computing resource and a virtual computing resource in the enterprise system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: monitoring user behavior in an enterprise system; identifying a given user of the enterprise system associated with a given portion of the monitored user behavior; determining a predicted impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system; generating a risk score for the given user based on the predicted impact of compromise and the given portion of the monitored user behavior; identifying one or more remedial actions to reduce the risk score for the given user; and implementing, prior to detecting compromise of the given user, at least one of the remedial actions to modify a configuration of at least one asset in the enterprise system, the at least one asset comprising at least one of a physical computing resource and a virtual computing resource in the enterprise system; wherein the method is performed by at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein monitoring user behavior utilizes one or more monitoring tools deployed on one or more assets in the enterprise system, the one or more monitoring tools comprising at least one of an endpoint monitoring tool, a network monitoring tool, a cloud services monitoring tool and an Internet of Things (IoT) gateway monitoring tool.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein monitoring user behavior comprises analyzing endpoint assets in the enterprise system to determine at least one of: browsing habits of one or more users of a given endpoint asset; installed applications on the given endpoint asset; system configuration of the given endpoint asset; system hygiene of the given endpoint asset; past susceptibility of the given endpoint asset to compromise; critical data stored on the given endpoint asset; access by the given endpoint asset to one or more other designated critical assets in the enterprise system; location of the given endpoint asset; and communication habits of the one or more users of the given endpoint asset.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein monitoring user behavior comprises analyzing network traffic of assets in the enterprise system to determine at least one of: network traffic from a given asset to one or more designated entities; network traffic from the given asset to one or more entities external to the enterprise system; network traffic from the given asset while the given asset is located in one or more designated high risk geographic areas; and network traffic between the given asset and one or more entities located in the one or more designated high risk geographic areas.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein monitoring user behavior comprises analyzing cloud services utilized by assets in the enterprise system to determine at least one of: types of software-as-a-service applications accessed by one or more users of the given enterprise system; data accessed by the one or more users of the given enterprise system via the cloud services; and cloud service utilization habits of the one or more users of the given enterprise system.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein monitoring user behavior comprises monitoring a set of Internet of Things (IoT) devices via a monitoring tool deployed on an IoT gateway utilized by the set of IoT devices to connect to one or more other assets of the enterprise system.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the given user of the enterprise system associated with the given portion of the monitored user behavior comprises associating transactional data to the given user utilizing one or more identifiers in the transactional data, the one or more identifiers comprising at least one of an Internet Protocol (IP) address, a Media Access Control (MAC) address, a user name, an email address, a machine name and a host name.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the given user of the enterprise system associated with the given portion of the monitored user behavior comprises associating transactional data for a given transaction obtained utilizing two or more different monitoring tools to the given user utilizing at least one of data normalization, document similarity measures and one or more clustering algorithms.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system is based at least in part on at least one of: a placement of the given user on an organizational chart associated with the given enterprise system; and the given user's role within the given enterprise system, the given user's role being determined at least in part based on one or more functions of the given user within the given enterprise system.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system is based at least in part on at least one of: association of the given user with one or more critical processes of the enterprise system; and association of the given user with one or more assets utilized by the one or more critical processes of the enterprise system.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein determining the impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system is based at least in part on at least one of: entitlements of the given user to access assets of the enterprise system; and access privileges delegated to the given user to access assets of the enterprise system.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the risk score for the given user utilizes at least one of a heuristic algorithm, a weighted average of two or more of a plurality of risk attributes of the given user, a decision tree based on two or more of the plurality of risk attributes of the given user, and a machine learning algorithm.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the risk score for the given user is a function of time.
14. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the risk score for the given user comprises generating a multi-level risk score, the multi-level risk score comprising an overall risk score at a top level and two or more lower-level risk scores, the overall risk score being a function of the two or more lower-level risk scores.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the two or more lower-level risk scores comprise: an impact risk score based at least in part on the predicted impact of compromise of the given user; and two or more risk attribute scores associated with different types of monitored behavior of the given user.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the two or more risk attribute scores comprise two or more of: a first risk attribute score associated with user behavior monitored on endpoint assets of the enterprise system; a second risk attribute score associated with user behavior monitored via network traffic of the enterprise system; a third risk attribute score associated with user behavior monitored via cloud services; and a fourth risk attribute score associated with user behavior monitored via one or more Internet of Things (IoT) device gateways.
17. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having stored therein program code of one or more software programs, wherein the program code when executed by at least one processing device causes the at least one processing device: to monitor user behavior in an enterprise system; to identify a given user of the enterprise system associated with a given portion of the monitored user behavior; to determine a predicted impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system; to generate a risk score for the given user based on the predicted impact of compromise and the given portion of the monitored user behavior; to identify one or more remedial actions to reduce the risk score for the given user; and to implement, prior to detecting compromise of the given user, at least one of the remedial actions to modify a configuration of at least one asset in the enterprise system, the at least one asset comprising at least one of a physical computing resource and a virtual computing resource in the enterprise system.
18. The computer program product of claim 17 wherein generating the risk score for the given user comprises generating a multi-level risk score, the multi-level risk score comprising an overall risk score at a top level and two or more lower-level risk scores, the overall risk score being a function of the two or more lower-level risk scores.
19. An apparatus comprising: at least one processing device comprising a processor coupled to a memory; the at least one processing device being configured: to monitor user behavior in an enterprise system; to identify a given user of the enterprise system associated with a given portion of the monitored user behavior; to determine a predicted impact of compromise of the given user on the enterprise system; to generate a risk score for the given user based on the predicted impact of compromise and the given portion of the monitored user behavior; to identify one or more remedial actions to reduce the risk score for the given user; and to implement, prior to detecting compromise of the given user, at least one of the remedial actions to modify a configuration of at least one asset in the enterprise system, the at least one asset comprising at least one of a physical computing resource and a virtual computing resource in the enterprise system
20. The apparatus of claim 19 wherein generating the risk score for the given user comprises generating a multi-level risk score, the multi-level risk score comprising an overall risk score at a top level and two or more lower-level risk scores, the overall risk score being a function of the two or more lower-level risk scores.
</claims>
</document>
