<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DICK'S SPORTING GOODS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Guo, Orin
Fischgrund, Justin Tyler
Sosa-Rivera, Joel Roman
Pontious, Zachary
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102417
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISE REQUEST SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for requesting a product at a retail establishment. The system includes an electronic device and a computer-readable storage medium which includes one or more programming instructions that cause the electronic device to receive, from an on-premises electronic device located at a retail establishment, data pertaining to a product including a unique identifier associated with the product, determine whether the product is an item of footwear, and identify current inventory information associated with the product in response to determining that the product is an item of footwear. The one or more programming instructions further cause the electronic device to send at least a portion of the current inventory information to the on-premises electronic device, receive a request for the product, and send a notification of the request to one or more associate electronic devices, each being associated with an associate in the retail establishment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for requesting a product at a retail establishment, the system comprising: an electronic device; and a computer-readable storage medium comprising one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: receive, from an on-premises electronic device located at a retail establishment, data pertaining to a product, wherein the data comprises a unique identifier associated with the product, determine whether the product is an item of footwear, in response to determining that the product is an item of footwear, identify current inventory information associated with the product, send at least a portion of the current inventory information to the on-premises electronic device, receive, from the on-premises electronic device, a request for the product wherein the request comprises one or more product selections, and send a notification of the request to one or more associate electronic devices, wherein each associate electronic device is associated with an associate in the retail establishment.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the unique identifier associated with the product was obtained by a scanning device associated with the on-premises electronic device.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the scanning device comprises one or more of the following: a barcode scanner; a radio-frequency identification scanner; or an image capturing device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to determine whether the product is an item of footwear comprise one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: retrieve a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identify from the product record one or more attributes of the product; identify one or more product descriptors associated with footwear; and for one or more of the attributes, determine if the attribute is consistent with its corresponding product descriptor.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more attributes comprise one or more of the following: a size; a width; a color; a material; a brand; a gender; or a product type.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to determine whether the product is an item of footwear comprise one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: retrieve a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identify from the product record one or more attributes of the product; and apply a machine learning model to the one or more attributes.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to determine whether the product is an item of footwear comprise one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: retrieve a product image associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; and apply a machine learning model to the product image.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to determine whether the product is an item of footwear comprise one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: retrieve a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identify a product image associated with the product from the product record; perform one or more image processing techniques on the product image to identify one or more attributes of the product; identify one or more product descriptors associated with footwear; and for one or more of the attributes, determine if the attribute is consistent with its corresponding product descriptor.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to, in response to determining that the product is not an article of footwear, cause an error message to be displayed at the on-premises electronic device.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-readable storage medium further comprises one or more programming instructions that, when executed, cause the electronic device to: add the request to a queue of received requests; and cause a visual representation of the queue to be displayed via one or more display devices in the retail establishment.
11. A method for requesting a product at a retail establishment, the method comprising: receiving, from an on-premises electronic device located at a retail establishment, data pertaining to a product, wherein the data comprises a unique identifier associated with the product; determining whether the product is an item of footwear; in response to determining that the product is an item of footwear, identifying current inventory information associated with the product; sending at least a portion of the current inventory information to the on-premises electronic device; receiving, from the on-premises electronic device, a request for the product wherein the request comprises one or more product selections; and sending a notification of the request to one or more associate electronic devices, wherein each associate electronic device is associated with an associate in the retail establishment.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein receiving data pertaining to the product further comprises: scanning a target item coupled to the product using a scanning device associated with the on-premises electronic device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the scanning device comprises one or more of the following: a barcode scanner; a radio-frequency identification scanner; or an image capturing device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining whether the product is an item of footwear further comprises: retrieving a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identifying from the product record one or more attributes of the product; identifying one or more product descriptors associated with footwear; and for one or more of the attributes, determining if the attribute is consistent with its corresponding product descriptor.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more attributes comprise one or more of the following: a size; a width; a color; a material; a brand; a gender; or a product type.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether the product is an item of footwear comprises: retrieving a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identifying from the product record one or more attributes of the product; and applying a machine learning model to the one or more attributes.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether the product is an item of footwear comprises: retrieving a product image associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; and applying a machine learning model to the product image.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining whether the product is an item of footwear further comprises: retrieving a product record associated with the product from a data store based on the unique identifier; identifying a product image associated with the product from the product record; performing one or more image processing techniques on the product image to identify one or more attributes of the product; identifying one or more product descriptors associated with footwear; and for one or more of the attributes, determining if the attribute is consistent with its corresponding product descriptor.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: in response to determining that the product is not an article of footwear, causing an error message to be displayed at the on-premises electronic device.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising: adding the request to a queue of received requests; and causing a visual representation of the queue to be displayed via one or more display devices in the retail establishment.
</claims>
</document>
