<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/34,G06N3/00,G06N3/08,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HIA Technologies Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARDRAN, RICHARD
Arat, Vacit
King, Rick
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer System and Method for Facilitating an Interactive Conversational Session with a Digital Conversational Character
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a software technology for facilitating an interactive conversational session between a user and a digital conversational character. For instance, in one aspect, the disclosed process may involve two primary phases: (1) an authoring phase that involves a first user accessing a content authoring tool to create a given type of visual conversation application that facilitates interactions between a second user and a digital conversational character in an interactive conversational session, and (2) a rendering phase that involves the second user accessing the created visual conversation application to interact with the digital conversational character in an interactive conversational session. In one implementation, accessing the created visual conversation application may involve detecting an object and identifying information associated with the detected object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a network interface; at least one processor; a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and program instructions stored on the non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by the at least one processor such that the computing system is configured to: receive, from a computing device associated with a user, data identifying an object that has been detected; based on the received data identifying the detected object, determine information associated with the detected object; cause the computing device associated with the user to present a view of a given type of visual conversation application that enables the user to interact with a digital conversational character in an interactive conversational session; determine a given interaction mode from a plurality of interaction modes for the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character, wherein the plurality of interaction modes comprises a personal mode and a non-personal mode; and facilitate the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character based on the determined information associated with the detected object and the determined interaction mode.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computing system further comprises program instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by the at least one processor such that the computing system is configured to: receive, from the computing device associated with the user, conversational data corresponding to interactions between the user and the digital conversational character; and store the received conversational data.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the digital conversational character comprises a digital representation of a human, an animal, an object, or a robot.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the given type of visual conversation application comprises a medical conversation application that enables the second user to interact with the digital conversational character during the interactive conversational session regarding medication.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein the computing system further comprises program instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by the at least one processor such that the computing system is configured to: cause the computing device associated with the user to present instructions to rotate the prescription bottle.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the detected object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein determining information associated with the detected object comprises extracting prescription information on the prescription label of the prescription bottle.
7. The computing system of claim 6, wherein the prescription information comprises one or more of a drug specific information, a pharmacy specific information, a patient specific information, or a warning information.
8. The computing system of claim 6, wherein extracting prescription information on the prescription label of the prescription bottle comprises extracting a prescription number associated with the prescription label.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computing system further comprises program instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium that are executable by the at least one processor such that the computing system is configured to: before causing the computing device associated with the user to present the view of the given type of visual conversation application, determine the given type of visual conversation application that should be presented based on the determined information associated with the detected object.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein determining the given interaction mode from the plurality of interaction modes for the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: determining that the given interaction mode for the interactive conversational session should be in the personal mode based on determining that some of the information associated with the detected object matches information associated with an account of the user for the given type of visual conversation application.
11. The computing system of claim 1, wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: determining a given question that the digital conversational character should ask the user based on a location of the user; based on the determination, causing the digital conversational character to utter the given question; and receiving, from the computing associated with the user, a response to the given question.
12. The computing system of claim 1, wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: receiving, from the computing device associated with the user, a given question regarding the detected object; determining a response for the digital conversational character based on the given interaction mode and information associated with the detected object; and causing the digital conversational character to utter the determined response to the given question.
13. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the detected object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: receiving, from the computing device associated with the user, a given request to place an order to refill the prescription bottle; determining that the given interaction mode comprises the personal mode; based on the information associated with the detected prescription bottle, determining a pharmacy associated with the prescription bottle; and based on determining that (1) the given interaction mode comprises the personal mode and (2) the pharmacy associated with the prescription bottle, sending a request to the pharmacy to refill the prescription for the user.
14. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the detected object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: receiving, from the computing device associated with the user, a given request to place an order to refill the prescription bottle; determining that the given interaction mode comprises the non-personal mode; based on the information associated with the detected prescription bottle, determining a pharmacy associated with the prescription bottle; and based on determining that (1) the given interaction mode comprises the non-personal mode and (2) the pharmacy associated with the prescription bottle, causing the digital conversational character to utter a response to the given request comprising contact information for the pharmacy.
15. A method performed by a computing system, the method comprising: receiving, from a computing device associated with a user, data identifying an object that has been detected; based on the received data identifying the detected object, determining information associated with the detected object; causing the computing device associated with the user to present a view of a given type of visual conversation application that enables the user to interact with a digital conversational character in an interactive conversational session; determining a given interaction mode from a plurality of interaction modes for the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character, wherein the plurality of interaction modes comprises a personal mode and a non-personal mode; and facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character based on the determined information associated with the detected object and the determined interaction mode.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein the method further comprises: causing the computing device associated with the user to present instructions to rotate the prescription bottle.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the detected object comprises a prescription bottle that includes a prescription label, and wherein determining information associated with the detected object comprises extracting prescription information on the prescription label of the prescription bottle.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: receiving, from the computing device associated with the user, a given question regarding the detected object; determining a response for the digital conversational character based on the given interaction mode and information associated with the detected object; and causing the digital conversational character to utter the determined response to the given question.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium is provisioned with program instructions that are executable to cause a computing system to: receive, from a computing device associated with a user, data identifying an object that has been detected; based on the received data identifying the detected object, determine information associated with the detected object; cause the computing device associated with the user to present a view of a given type of visual conversation application that enables the user to interact with a digital conversational character in an interactive conversational session; determine a given interaction mode from a plurality of interaction modes for the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character, wherein the plurality of interaction modes comprises a personal mode and a non-personal mode; and facilitate the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character based on the determined information associated with the detected object and the determined interaction mode.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein facilitating the interactive conversational session between the user and the digital conversational character comprises: receiving, from the computing device associated with the user, a given question regarding the detected object; determining a response for the digital conversational character based on the given interaction mode and information associated with the detected object; and causing the digital conversational character to utter the determined response to the given question.
</claims>
</document>
