<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/88,G01N21/95,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TDK CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSUTSUMI TAKESHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69104228
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE GENERATION DEVICE AND APPEARANCE INSPECTION DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An image generation device and an appearance inspection device which can increase the number of types of training image are provided. An image generation device includes an image acquisition unit configured to acquire a first image; and an image generator configured to generate a training image based on the first image, wherein the first image depicts a first defect included in a first product of a different type the product to be inspected, and the training image is a image to be read by an identifier that identifies whether an inspection image obtained by imaging the product to be inspected depicts a same type of defect as the first defect and to be used by the identifier to perform learning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image generation device comprising: an image acquisition unit configured to acquire a first image; and an image generator configured to generate a training image based on the first image, wherein the first image depicts a first defect included in a first product of a different type the product to be inspected, and the training image is a image to be read by an identifier that identifies whether an inspection image obtained by imaging the product to be inspected depicts a same type of defect as the first defect and to be used by the identifier to perform learning.
2. The image generation device according to claim 1, further comprising: a feature extractor configured to image a second product, and extract feature data from the second image, wherein the second product is a same type of a product as the product to be inspected, the feature data indicates a feature of the second image not depicting a defect, and the image generator generates the training image based on the feature data in addition to the first image.
3. The image generation device according to claim 2, wherein the feature extractor extracts a value as the feature data, the value relates to a hue of each pixel in a region in which the second product of the second image is depicted, and the image generator replaces a hue of each pixel in a region in which the first product in the first image is depicted with the value.
4. The image generation device according to claim 3, wherein the feature extractor extracts a value as the feature data, the value indicates a degree of variability in hue of each pixel in a region in which the second product in the second image is depicted, and the image generator adds noise defined by the value to a hue of each pixel in a region in which the first product in the first image is depicted.
5. The image generation device according to claim 2, wherein the feature extractor extracts a background data as the feature data, the background data indicates a background of the second product depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the background with the first image on the basis of the background data.
6. The image generation device according to claim 3, wherein the feature extractor extracts a background data as the feature data, the background data indicates a background of the second product depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the background with the first image on the basis of the background data.
7. The image generation device according to claim 4, wherein the feature extractor extracts a background data as the feature data, the background data indicates a background of the second product depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the background with the first image on the basis of the background data.
8. The image generation device according to claim 5, wherein the feature extractor extracts a boundary data as the feature data, the boundary data indicates a boundary between the second product and the background depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the boundary with the first image based on the boundary data.
9. The image generation device according to claim 6, wherein the feature extractor extracts a boundary data as the feature data, the boundary data indicates a boundary between the second product and the background depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the boundary with the first image based on the boundary data.
10. The image generation device according to claim 7, wherein the feature extractor extracts a boundary data as the feature data, the boundary data indicates a boundary between the second product and the background depicted by the second image, and the image generator combines the boundary with the first image based on the boundary data.
11. The image generation device according to claim 2, wherein the image acquisition unit further acquires a third image depicting a second defect included in the second product, the second defect is the same type of defect as the first defect, and the image generator further generates the training images based on the third image.
12. The image generation device according to claim 11, wherein the image generator generates the training images by changing at least one of a position and a direction of the second defect depicted by the third image.
13. The image generation device according to claim 1, wherein the image generator generates the training images by changing at least one of a position and a direction of the first defect depicted by the first image.
14. The image generation device according to claim 1, further comprising: an identifier learning unit configured to cause the identifier to read the training images and to perform learning; and an identifier verifier configured to cause the identifier to read an abnormal inspection image obtained by imaging the product to be inspected, which includes the same type of defect as the first defect, and to verify an accuracy in identification by the identifier.
15. The image generation device according to claim 2, further comprising: an identifier learning unit configured to cause the identifier to read the training images and to perform learning; and an identifier verifier configured to cause the identifier to read an abnormal inspection image obtained by imaging the product to be inspected, which includes the same type of defect as the first defect, and to verify an accuracy in identification by the identifier.
16. An appearance inspection device comprising: an imaging device configured to image a product to be inspected; and an identifier which has performed learning by reading the training image generated by the image generation device according to claim 1.
17. An appearance inspection device comprising: an imaging device configured to image a product to be inspected; and an identifier which has performed learning by reading the training image generated by the image generation device according to claim 2.
</claims>
</document>
