<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T11/40,G06T3/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/50,G06T7/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRICE, BRIAN LYNN
ZHAO, YINAN
COHEN, SCOTT DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67300066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital Image Fill
</title>

<abstract>
Fill techniques as implemented by a computing device are described to perform hole filling of a digital image. In one example, deeply learned features of a digital image using machine learning are used by a computing device as a basis to search a digital image repository to locate the guidance digital image. Once located, machine learning techniques are then used to align the guidance digital image with the hole to be filled in the digital image. Once aligned, the guidance digital image is then used to guide generation of fill for the hole in the digital image. Machine learning techniques are used to determine which parts of the guidance digital image are to be blended to fill the hole in the digital image and which parts of the hole are to receive new content that is synthesized by the computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment to fill a hole in a digital image using a guidance digital image, a system comprising: a portion alignment module implemented at least partially in hardware of a computing device to generate parameters to align a portion of the guidance digital image with the hole to be filled in the digital image; and a fill generation module implemented at least partially in hardware to transform the digital image by filling the hole in the digital image based at least in part on the parameters, the filling of the hole including: blending the portion of the guidance digital image within a first part of the hole in the digital image; and synthesizing fill for a second part of the hole in the digital image that is separate from the first part of the hole in the digital image.
2. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the parameters specify a translation to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
3. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the parameters specify a rotation to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
4. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the parameters specify a scaling to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
5. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the parameters are affine parameters.
6. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the synthesized fill is based on the portion of the guidance digital image or at least part of the digital image with the hole to be filled.
7. The system as described in claim 1, wherein the portion alignment module generates the parameters using a model trained using machine learning.
8. The system as described in claim 7, wherein the portion alignment module further comprises a training data generation module to generate pairs of training digital images that include a training ground truth digital image and a training guidance digital image.
9. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the training data generation module is configured to generate the training guidance digital image by: selecting a first digital image as the training ground truth digital image and a second digital image; adding a portion from the first digital image to the second digital image; and blending the added portion as part of the second digital image.
10. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the training data generation module is configured to further generate the training guidance digital image by: selecting a training portion of the second digital image that encompasses the blended portion and a part of the second digital image in addition to the blended portion; and generating the training guidance digital image using the selected training portion.
11. In a digital medium environment to fill a hole in a digital image using a guidance digital image, a method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: generating, by the computing device, parameters to align a portion of the guidance digital image with the hole to be filled in the digital image; and filling, by the computing device, the hole in the digital image based at least in part on the parameters, the filling of the hole including: blending the portion of the guidance digital image within a first part of the hole in the digital image; and synthesizing fill for a second part of the hole in the digital image that is separate from the first part of the hole in the digital image.
12. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the parameters specify a translation to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
13. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the parameters specify a rotation to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
14. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the parameters specify a scaling to be applied to align the portion of the guidance digital image with respect to the hole to be filled in the digital image.
15. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the parameters are affine parameters.
16. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the synthesized fill is based on the portion of the guidance digital image or at least part of the digital image with the hole to be filled.
17. The method as described in claim 11, wherein the generating of the parameters uses a model trained using machine learning.
18. The method as described in claim 17, further comprising generating pairs of training digital images that include a training ground truth digital image and a training guidance digital image.
19. A system comprising: means for selecting a first digital image and a second digital image; means for adding a portion from the first digital image to the second digital image; means for blending the added portion as part of the second digital image; means for selecting a training portion of the second digital image that encompasses the blended portion and a part of the second digital image in addition to the blended portion; means for generating a training guidance digital image by adding the selected training portion to the first digital image; and means for training a model using machine learning based on the training guidance digital image and the first digital image as a training ground truth digital image.
20. The system as described in claim 19, further comprising: means for generating a first feature map from a digital image having a portion to be filled, the generating performed using machine learning; means for generating a second feature map from a guidance digital image using machine learning; means for generating an attention map using the trained model as part of machine learning based on the digital image having the portion to be filled and the guidance digital image; means for filtering the second feature map based on the attention map; means for combining the filtered second feature map with the first feature map; and means for generating a filled digital image by decoding the combined filtered second feature map and first feature map using machine learning.
</claims>
</document>
