<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B30/00,G16B40/00,G16B45/00,G16B5/00,G16B50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
HIGGINS, GERALD A.
BURNS, JAMES S.
REAMAROON, NARATHIP
ATHEY, BRIAN D.
ADE, ALEX
KALININ, ALEXANDR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69724089
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and System for the Reconstruction of Drug Response and Disease Networks and Uses Thereof
</title>

<abstract>
Methods comprising an integrated, multiscale artificial intelligence-based system that reconstructs drug-specific pharmacogenomic networks and their constituent functional sub-networks are described. The system uses features of the functional topology of the three-dimensional architecture of drug-modulated spatial contacts in chromatin space. Discovery of a drug pharmacogenomic network is made through the selection of candidate SNPs by imputation, determination of the predicted causality of the SNPs using machine learning and deep learning, use of the causal SNPs to probe the spatial genome as determined by chromosome conformation capture analysis, combining targeted genes controlled by the same cell and tissue-specific enhancers, and reconstruction of the pharmacogenomic network using diverse data sources and metrics based on the results of genome-wide association studies. Knowledge-based segmentation methods are used to deconstruct the pharmacogenomic network into its constituent efficacy and adverse event sub-networks for applications in clinical decision support, drug re-purposing, and in silico drug discovery.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for identifying a pharmacogenomic network of a drug, the method executed by one or more processors programmed to perform the method, the method comprising: obtaining, by one or more processors, a plurality of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) correlated with drug response or adverse events for a particular drug; identifying, by the one or more processors, a drug pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on a set of genes associated with the plurality of SNPs; deconstructing, by the one or more processors, the drug pharmacogenomic network into a plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks using a topology of sub-network types selected from two or more of: a chromatin remodeling sub-network type, a drug efficacy sub-network type, a drug adverse events sub-network type, a pharmacokinetic enzymes and hormones sub-network type, a systemic pharmacokinetics sub-network type, or an immune system adverse events sub-network type; and providing, by the one or more processors, an indication of the drug pharmacogenomic network and indications of the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for display.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying a drug pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on a set of genes associated with the plurality of SNPs includes: comparing, by the one or more processors, the plurality of SNPs to a database of SNPs to identify additional SNPs that are linked to the plurality of SNPs using a topologically associating domain (TAD) boundary within a chromosome territory, wherein the plurality of SNPs and additional SNPs are included in a set of candidate variants; performing, by the one or more processors, a mapping of 3D spatial connections using the set of candidate variants as probes within chromatin data to determine interconnections between target genes correlated with drug response or adverse events for the particular drug; performing, by the one or more processors, a pathway analysis on the target genes associated with the set of candidate variants to filter the target genes to identify a set of genes which are causally related to the particular drug; and identifying, by the one or more processors, the drug pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on the identified set of genes.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: performing, by the one or more processors, a bioinformatics analysis on the drug pharmacogenomic network to ensure a most significantly associated drug to the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks is the particular drug.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein deconstructing the drug pharmacogenomic network into a plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks includes: organizing, by one or more processors, the set of genes into functional subsets using iterative gene set optimization to identify a plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for the particular drug corresponding to each of the functional subsets.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein performing a bioinformatics analysis on the drug pharmacogenomic network includes: validating, via bioinformatics, the drug pharmacogenomic network and the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for the particular drug.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein validating the drug pharmacogenomic network and the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for the particular drug includes: comparing the drug pharmacogenomic network and the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for the particular drug to one or more of: terms from a gene ontology or medications database, canonical biological pathway in cells or tissues where the particular drug acts, or xenobiotic upstream regulators in the cells or the tissues where the particular drug acts.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein performing a pathway analysis on target genes associated with the subset of intermediate candidate variants to filter the target genes includes identifying, by the one or more processors, a set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes by identifying a subset of the target genes that form a statistically significant interconnected pathway expressed in a tissue associated with the particular drug.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising: analyzing each gene in the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes according to at least one of: a function of the gene in context of the particular drug, a set of mutations within the gene, or a pattern of expression of the gene relative to a neuroanatomical substrate, as defined by RNA expression data, functional imaging, or other integrative multiscale data indicating where the particular drug is known to act; analyzing other genes and functional genomic elements including long noncoding RNA based on each gene in the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes; and adding or removing genes to or from the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes based on the analysis.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein analyzing each gene in the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes according to a pattern of expression of the gene relative to a neuroanatomical substrate includes: comparing each gene in the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes to a neuromap indicating the neuroanatomical substrate for the particular drug; and filtering genes from the set of candidate drug pharmacogenomic network genes that are not expressed in a same neuroanatomical region as the particular drug.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processors, one or more spatial contacts including TADs based on the plurality of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) correlated with drug response or adverse events for the particular drug, wherein the one or more spatial contacts are differentially expanded and suppressed.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the drug pharmacogenomic network includes one of more defining characteristics of functional spatial genomics, including at least one of: mutations that impact enhancer-promoter pairs, promoter-promoter pairs, super enhancer-promoter pairs, regulatory RNAs, euchromatin or heterochromatin state, topologically-associating domains (TADs), or lamina-associating domains (LADs).
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, by the one or more processors, the indication of the drug pharmacogenomic network and indications of the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for the particular drug in a database as a reference set to compare and score input patient pharmacogenomic networks for the same particular drug to determine efficacy and adverse events when treating the patient for a condition or disease.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the one or more processors, a set of molecular pharmacodynamic targets within one of the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for a same or similar clinical indication as the specified drug.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the set of molecular pharmacodynamic targets within one of the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks and the particular drug act in a human brain, and a majority of members of a pathway for the molecular pharmacodynamic target are expressed in the same regions of the human brain as the particular drug.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: re-purposing a drug based on underlying loci of pharmacogenomic enhancer SNPs related to the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks within the topology of sub-network types.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: re-purposing a combination of drugs to test as a therapeutic after determination that physiological mechanisms demonstrate that complementarity between sub-network characteristics of two or more drugs offers a more optimal therapy for a particular disease or disease states than a single particular drug.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein re-purposing a combination of drugs includes re-purposing valproic acid and ketamine as a combinatorial therapeutic for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular drug is one of: valproic acid, ketamine, lithium, lamotrigine, clozapine, or warfarin.
19. A computing device for identifying a pharmacogenomic network of a drug, the computing device comprising: a communication network, one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing thereon instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to: obtain a plurality of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) correlated with drug response or adverse events for a particular drug; identify a pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on a set of genes associated with the plurality of SNPs; deconstruct the drug pharmacogenomic network into a plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks using a topology of sub-network types selected from two or more of: a chromatin remodeling sub-network type, a drug efficacy sub-network type, a drug adverse events sub-network type, a pharmacokinetic enzymes and hormones sub-network type, a systemic pharmacokinetics sub-network type, or an immune system adverse events sub-network type; and provide, via the communication network, an indication of the drug pharmacogenomic network and indications of the plurality of drug pharmacogenomic sub-networks for display.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein to identify a pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on a set of genes associated with the plurality of SNPs, the instructions further cause the computing device to: compare the plurality of SNPs to a database of SNPs to identify additional SNPs that are linked to the plurality of SNPs using a topologically associating domain (TAD) boundary within a chromosome territory, wherein the plurality of SNPs and additional SNPs are included in a set of candidate variants; perform a mapping of 3D spatial connections using the set of candidate variants as probes within chromatin data to determine interconnections between target genes correlated with drug response or adverse events for the particular drug; perform a pathway analysis on the target genes associated with the set of candidate variants to filter the target genes to identify a set of genes which are causally related to the particular drug; and identify the drug pharmacogenomic network for the particular drug based on the identified set of genes.
21. A method for identifying a combination of drugs to test as a therapeutic for a particular disease, the method executed by one or more processors programmed to perform the method, the method comprising: obtaining, by one or more processors, a first plurality of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) correlated with drug response or adverse events for a first drug; obtaining, by one or more processors, a second plurality of SNPS correlated with drug response or adverse events for a second drug; identifying, by the one or more processors, a first drug pharmacogenomic network for the first drug based on a first set of genes associated with the first plurality of SNPs; identifying, by the one or more processors, a second drug pharmacogenomic network for the second drug based on a second set of genes associated with the second plurality of SNPs; identifying, by the one or more processors, a first drug response phenotype associated with the first set of genes in the first drug pharmacogenomic network that is complementary to a second drug response phenotype associated with the second set of genes in the second drug pharmacogenomic network; and re-purposing a combination of the first and second drug to test as a therapeutic for a particular disease.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein re-purposing the combination of the first and second drug to test as the therapeutic for the particular disease includes: administering the first drug at a first time; and administering the second drug at a second time later than the first time.
</claims>
</document>
