<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/0452,H04W24/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, QING
CIZDZIEL, BENJAMIN JACOB
BHANAGE, GAUTAM DILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72832190
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATTERN RECOGNITION AND CLASSIFICATION OF PACKET ERROR CHARACTERISTICS FOR MULTI-USER MULTIPLE INPUT MULTIPLE OUTPUT (MU-MIMO) OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
Pattern recognition and classification of packet error characteristics for Multi-user Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) optimization may be provided. First, a packet error characteristic data of a channel for a Downlink (DL) Multi-user (MU) group may be received. Next, the received packet error characteristic data may be provided as input data to a classifier model. Then, in response to providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model, output data may be received from the classifier model. The output data may indicate at least one probability value corresponding to at least one channel effect. An optimization for improving performance of DL MU-MIMO in the presence of the at least one channel effect may then be performed when the at least one probability value is above or below a predetermined level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, packet error characteristic data of a channel for a Downlink (DL) Multi-user (MU) group; providing the received packet error characteristic data as input data to a classifier model; receiving, in response to providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model, output data from the classifier model, the output data indicating at least one probability value corresponding to at least one channel effect; and performing an optimization for improving performance of DL Multi-user Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) in the presence of the at least one channel effect when the at least one probability value is one of the following: above a predetermined level and below the predetermined level.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the packet error characteristic data comprises receiving the packet error characteristic data comprising at least one of the following: a sounding interval; a sounding time; MU grouping information; and an overall Packet Error Rate (PER).
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the packet error characteristic data comprises receiving the packet error characteristic data comprising Timed PER Bitmap (TPBMP) metrics.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprises receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprising high Doppler shift.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprises receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to at the least one channel effect comprising high bursty interference.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprises receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprising at least one of the following: significant slow fading; high white noise; and high persistent interference.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprises receiving the output data from the classifier model indicating the at least one probability value corresponding to the at least one channel effect comprising poor MU group selection.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the optimization comprises performing the optimization using at least one of the following: an MU grouping module; an MU rate control module; and a Transmit (TX) beamforming module.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model comprises providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model wherein the classifier model was previously trained by correlating training inputs with a known introduced training channel effect in an isolated environment.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model comprises providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model wherein the classifier model was previously trained while being used in a deployed network.
11. A system comprising: a memory storage; and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage, wherein the processing unit is operative to: receive packet error characteristic data of a channel for a Downlink (DL) Multi-user (MU) group; provide the received packet error characteristic data as input data to a classifier model; receive, in response to providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model, output data from the classifier model, the output data indicating at least one probability value corresponding to at least one channel effect; and perform an optimization for improving performance of DL Multi-user Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) in the presence of the at least one channel effect when the at least one probability value is one of the following: above a predetermined level or below the predetermined level.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the packet error characteristic data comprises at least one of the following: a sounding interval; a sounding time; MU grouping information; and an overall Packet Error Rate (PER).
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the packet error characteristic data comprises Timed PER Bitmap (TPBMP) metrics.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one channel effect comprises one of the following: high Doppler shift; high bursty interference; significant slow fading, high white noise, and/or high persistent interference; and poor MU group selection.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the processing unit being operative to perform the optimization comprises the processing unit being operative to perform the optimization using at least one of the following: an MU grouping module; an MU rate control module; and a Transmit (TX) beamforming module.
16. A computer-readable medium that stores a set of instructions which when executed perform a method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, packet error characteristic data of a channel for a Downlink (DL) Multi-user (MU) group; providing the received packet error characteristic data as input data to a classifier model; receiving, in response to providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model, output data from the classifier model, the output data indicating at least one probability value corresponding to at least one channel effect; and performing an optimization for improving performance of DL Multi-user Multiple Input Multiple Output (MU-MIMO) in the presence of the at least one channel effect when the at least one probability value is one of the following: above a predetermined level and below the predetermined level.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein receiving the packet error characteristic data comprises receiving the packet error characteristic data comprising at least one of the following: a sounding interval; a sounding time; MU grouping information; and an overall Packet Error Rate (PER).
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein receiving the packet error characteristic data comprises receiving the packet error characteristic data comprising Timed PER Bitmap (TPBMP) metrics.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model comprises providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model wherein the classifier model was previously trained by correlating training inputs with a known introduced training channel effect in an isolated environment.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model comprises providing the received packet error characteristic data as the input data to the classifier model wherein the classifier model was previously trained while being used in a deployed network.
</claims>
</document>
