<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XSELIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARDENHIRE, KEVIN TYLER
FOX, TYLER LOGAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69405107
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATICALLY OPTIMIZING AND IMPLEMENTING A TRAVEL ITINERARY USING A MACHINE LEARNING MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A method for automatically optimizing a travel itinerary and automatically implementing for the travel itinerary, using a machine learning model executed on a server, the method includes: obtaining a first set of data; generating a first database from the first set of data; determining, using the machine learning model, one or more travel options that are specific to a planned travel by analyzing the first set of data, wherein the machine learning model is generated by generating a second database with a first set of data associated with travellers, generating a third database with a travel itinerary of the travellers, processing an expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, and providing (a) the first set of data associated with the travellers, (b) the travel itinerary of the travellers, and (c) the expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, to a machine learning algorithm as training data; obtaining an itinerary plan request from a user; generating, using the machine learning model, a travel itinerary for the itinerary plan request for the user by analyzing the one or more travel options, and automatically implementing the travel itinerary by making arrangements for at least one of aircraft, hotel or ground transportation based on the one or more travel options.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically optimizing a travel itinerary and automatically implementing for the travel itinerary, using a machine learning model executed on a server, the method comprises: obtaining a first set of data; generating a first database from the first set of data; determining, using the machine learning model, one or more travel options that are specific to a planned travel by analyzing the first set of data, wherein the machine learning model is generated by generating a second database with a first set of data associated with travellers, generating a third database with a travel itinerary of the travellers, processing an expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, and providing (a) the first set of data associated with the travellers, (b) the travel itinerary of the travellers, and (c) the expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, to a machine learning algorithm as training data; obtaining an itinerary plan request from a user; generating, using the machine learning model, a travel itinerary for the itinerary plan request for the user by analyzing the one or more travel options, and automatically implementing the travel itinerary by making arrangements for at least one of aircraft, hotel or ground transportation based on the one or more travel options.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the first set of data comprises at least one of a sales team data, a customer relationship management data comprising a customer data and a customer location information, an aircraft data, a ground transportation data and a price negotiation information.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the each of the one or more travel options comprise at least one of a number of hotel nights required, a travel time, cost of travel, an estimated productivity during the travel time, cost of employee's time or luggage requirements.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the travel itinerary of each traveller comprises a travel plan with recommendations and an order of travel and a work schedule associated with each traveller.
5. A method according to claim 1, wherein the itinerary plan request comprises travel plan information selected from at least one of an intended travel time taken from a start to an end of a trip, a date or a time of travel or a mode of travel.
6. A method according to claim 1, wherein the travel itinerary that is generated for the user comprises a travel plan and a work schedule for the user, wherein the travel plan comprises a travel time and cost of the travel, information on one or more time slots for meeting customers and recommendations on which sales person should meet which customer and in what order during the travel time to increase the productivity of the user.
7. A method according to claim 1, further comprising enabling the user to review and to provide an input to override the travel itinerary; and modifying the travel itinerary based on the input of the user using the machine learning algorithm.
8. A method according to claim 1, method further comprising: providing a primary scheduling interface to enable the user to schedule a call for one or more time slots; providing on demand modifications to the travel itinerary while the user is on the call to schedule the meetings using the machine learning algorithm; suggesting an alternate time slot to enable the user to schedule a meeting if a time slot as provided by the travel itinerary is unavailable, using the machine learning algorithm; and modifying the travel itinerary with the alternate time slot when the user approves that alternate time slot.
9. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises using the machine learning algorithm to determine two or more potential customers within a travel distance based on customer relationship management data, alternate travel options, a travel time and cost for the alternate travel options when a meeting for a time slot has been cancelled at last minute, wherein the alternate travel options are identified based on meetings that are scheduled preceding the cancelled time slot.
10. A method according to claim 9, further comprising enabling the user to schedule a call with the two or more potential customers to schedule a replacement meeting for the cancelled time slot; modifying the travel itinerary when a replacement meeting for the cancelled time slot is scheduled using the machine learning algorithm; and automatically making arrangements when the user approves the replacement meeting.
11. A method according to claim 9, further comprising enabling the user to override a time slot of the travel itinerary if a customer associated with the cancelled time slot is critical; and modifying unconfirmed time slots to optimize around the override time slot of the travel itinerary to schedule a meeting with that customer using the machine learning algorithm.
12. A method according to claim 1, further comprising generating the one or more travel options with a balance between a time spent with customers and cost of travel across different modes of transportation.
13. A method according to claim 6, further comprising determining the recommendation of a sales person for meeting a particular customer by matching a sales person to that particular customer using at least one of personality, skill set, expertise, specialization of the sales person or customer data.
14. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises providing destination information associated with the travel itinerary to the user for building customer relationships with the customers, wherein the destination information comprises at least one of restaurants that are near to a customer location, weather information of the customer location, attractive places that are near to the customer location.
15. A method according to claim 2, wherein the sales team data associated with the user comprises at least one of team strengths, team weaknesses, team dynamics, sales performance history, a time value of a sales person, personal travel preferences, travel policies or individual's time-of-day performance profiles, the customer data associated with the user comprises at least one of sales history, sales projections, challenges or growth factors that affects customer's ability to grow, and the customer location information comprises at least one of specification of airports associated with a customer location or news, hostels, restaurants or weather information pertinent to the customer location, the aircraft data comprises at least one of commercial air routes, a travel time and costs, company aircraft routes or available aircraft charter options, and the ground transportation data comprises at least one of rental car costs, car-for-hire options or a car travel time, wherein the price negotiation information comprises at least one of deals with booking sites or individual providers, or flight planning factors including airport capabilities.
16. A system comprising a server for automatically optimizing a travel itinerary and automatically implementing the travel itinerary, using a machine learning model, comprising: a first processor; a memory configured to store data comprising: a data obtaining module implemented by the first processor configured to obtain a first set of data; a database generating module implemented by the first processor configured to generate a first database from the first set of data; a travel option determination module implemented by the first processor configured to determine one or more travel options that are specific to a planned travel by analyzing the first set of data, wherein the machine learning model is generated by a second processor configured to: generate a second database with a first set of data associated with travellers, generate a third database with a travel itinerary of the travellers, process an expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, and provide (i) the first set of data associated with the travellers, (ii) the travel itinerary of the travellers, and (iii) the expert input on the travel itinerary of the travellers, to a machine learning algorithm as training data; an itinerary plan request obtaining module implemented by the first processor configured to obtain an itinerary plan request from a user; a travel itinerary generation module implemented by the first processor configured to generate a travel itinerary for the itinerary plan request for the user by analyzing the one or more travel options; and an automatic travel arrangement module implemented by the first processor configured to implement the travel itinerary by making arrangements for at least one of aircraft, hotel or ground transportation based on the one or more travel options.
17. A system according to claim 16, wherein the system further comprises an itinerary modification module that is configured to enable the user to review and to provide an input to override the travel itinerary; and modify the travel itinerary based on the input of the user using the machine learning algorithm.
18. A system according to claim 16, wherein the system further comprises a scheduling module that is configured to provide a primary scheduling interface to enable the user to schedule a call for one or more time slots; provide on demand modifications to the travel itinerary while the user is on the call to schedule the meetings using the machine learning algorithm; and suggest an alternate time slot to enable the user to schedule a meeting if a time slot as provided by the travel itinerary is unavailable, using the machine learning algorithm, wherein itinerary modification module modifies the travel itinerary with the alternate time slot when the user approves that alternate time slot.
19. A system according to claim 16, wherein the system further comprises a cancellation module that is configured to determine two or more potential customers within a travel distance based on customer relationship management data, alternate travel options, a travel time and cost for the alternate travel options when a meeting for a time slot has been cancelled at last minute, wherein the alternate travel options are identified based on meetings that are scheduled preceding the cancelled time slot.
20. A system according to claim 19, wherein the cancellation module is configured to enable the user to schedule a call with the two or more potential customers; modify the travel itinerary when a replacement meeting for the cancelled time slot is scheduled using the machine learning algorithm; and automatically book the tickets when the user approves the replacement meeting.
21. A system according to claim 19, wherein the cancellation module is configured to enable the user to override a time slot of the travel itinerary if a customer associated with the cancelled time slot is critical; and modify unconfirmed time slots to optimize around the override time slot of the travel itinerary to schedule a meeting with that customer using the machine learning algorithm.
22. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable instructions stored thereon, the computer-readable instructions being executable by a computerized device comprising processing hardware to execute a method as claimed in claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
