<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G16H10/60,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENLITIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
UPTON, ANTHONY
COVINGTON, BEN
LYMAN, KEVIN
YAO, LI
PROSKY, JORDAN
CROSWHITE, CHRIS
POBLENZ, ERIC C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL SCAN HEADER STANDARDIZATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A medical scan header standardization system is operable to determine a set of standard DICOM headers based on determining a standard set of fields and based on further determining a standard set of entries for each of the standard set of fields. A DICOM image is received via a network, and a header of the DICOM image is determined to be incorrect. A selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers to replace the header of the DICOM image is determined. The selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers is transmitted, via the network, to a medical scan database for storage in conjunction with the DICOM image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical scan header standardization system, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the medical scan header standardization system to: determine a set of standard Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) headers based on determining a standard set of fields and based on further determining a standard set of entries for each of the standard set of fields; receive, via a network, a DICOM image; determine that a header of the DICOM image is incorrect; determine a selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers to replace the header of the DICOM image; and transmit the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers, via the network, to a medical scan database for storage in conjunction with the DICOM image.
2. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein determining that the header of the DICOM image is incorrect includes determining that the header is not included in the set of standard DICOM headers.
3. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 2, wherein determining that the DICOM image is incorrect includes determining an entry of a field of the header is not included in the set of standard entries for one of the standard set of fields corresponding to the field.
4. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 3, wherein determining the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers includes determining one of the set of standard entries of the one of the standard set of fields that compares most favorably to the entry.
5. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 3, wherein the memory stores, for each of the set of standard fields, a mapping of incorrect entries to ones of the set of standard entries to one of the standard set of entries for the each of the set of standard fields; and wherein determining the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers includes determining one of the set of standard entries of the one of the standard set of fields by utilizing the mapping.
6. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 5, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan header standardization system to: transmit a notification to a client device for display to a user via a display device in response to determining the mapping does not include an incorrect entry that compares favorably to the entry, wherein the notification indicates the entry; receive, from the client device, an identified one of the standard set of entries, wherein the identified one of the standard set of entries is generated by the client device based on user input via an interactive interface in response to a prompt displayed by the display device to select one of the standard set of entries for the entry; and generate a new mapping entry that maps the entry to the identified one of the standard set of entries; wherein the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers includes the identified one of the standard set of entries.
7. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan header standardization system to receive a plurality of DICOM images, wherein the set of standard DICOM headers is determined automatically based on headers of the plurality of DICOM images.
8. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 7, wherein headers of all of the plurality of DICOM images are included in the set of standard DICOM headers.
9. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 7, wherein determining the set of standard DICOM headers includes: determining a histogram of entries for each of the standard set of fields for headers of the plurality of DICOM images; and determining the standard set of entries for each of the standard set of fields by including ones of the entries for each of the standard set of fields with counts in the histogram that compare favorably to a threshold.
10. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 9, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan header standardization system to: determine an entry of a header of one of the plurality of DICOM images with count in the histogram that compares unfavorably to a threshold; determine one of the standard set of entries for a corresponding one of the standard set of fields to replace the entry; generate an updated header for the one of the plurality of DICOM images based on the one the standard set of entries; and transmit the updated header, via the network, to a medical scan database for storage in conjunction with the DICOM image.
11. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein at least two of the standard set of fields have dependency requirements, wherein the header includes one of the standard set of entries for each one of the standard set of fields, and wherein the header is not included in the standard set of DICOM headers due to the at least two of the standard set of entries comparing unfavorably to the dependency requirements.
12. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein determining that the DICOM image is incorrect includes determining a set of fields of the header does not match the standard set of fields.
13. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 12, wherein determining the set of fields of the header does not match the standard set of fields includes determining at least one of: an number of the set of fields compares unfavorably to a number of the standard set of fields, or an ordering of the set of fields compares unfavorably to a standard ordering of the standard set of fields.
14. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein determining that the header of the DICOM image is incorrect includes determining that at least one field of the DICOM header is null, and wherein the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers includes a non-null entry for the at least one field.
15. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein the header is included in the standard set of DICOM headers; wherein determining the header is incorrect includes: automatically determining at least one property of the DICOM image; determining a field of the standard set of fields corresponding to the at least one property; and determining an entry of the field of the header compares unfavorably to the at least one property; wherein determining the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers to replace the header includes: selecting one of the standard set of entries for the field that compares favorably to the at least one property; and replacing the entry with the one of the standard set of entries.
16. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 15, wherein the property corresponds to one of: a modality of the DICOM image or an anatomical region of the DICOM image.
17. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 16, wherein automatically determining the property includes performing an inference function that utilizes a computer vision model on image data of the DICOM image.
18. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical scan header standardization system to: generate an updated DICOM image by replacing the header of the DICOM image with the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers; and transmitting the updated DICOM image to the medical scan database to replace the DICOM image.
19. The medical scan header standardization system of claim 1, wherein medical scan database is associated with a Picture Archive and Communication System (PACS) server, and wherein the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers of the DICOM image is transmitted to the PACS server in accordance with a DICOM communication protocol.
20. A method for execution by a medical scan header standardization system, comprising: determine a set of standard Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) headers based on determining a standard set of fields and based on further determining a standard set of entries for each of the standard set of fields; receiving via a network, a DICOM image; determining that a header of the DICOM image is incorrect; determining a selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers to replace the header of the DICOM image; and transmitting the selected one of the set of standard DICOM headers, via the network, to a medical scan database for storage in conjunction with the DICOM image.
</claims>
</document>
