<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/2343,H04N21/433,H04N21/442,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JANA, RITTWIK
MURRAY, JOHN, F.
SHI, SHU
GUPTA, VARUN
HWANG, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, DEVICES, AND SYSTEMS FOR UPDATING STREAMING PANORAMIC VIDEO CONTENT DUE TO A CHANGE IN USER VIEWPOINT
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, embodiments comprising obtaining a plurality of original frames for video content, receiving a first viewpoint from a mobile device, and processing the plurality of original frames according to the first viewpoint generating a plurality of first viewpoint frames. Further embodiments include providing the plurality of first viewpoint frames to the mobile device, generating a group of delta frames in response to receiving a change in viewpoint from the mobile device, and providing the group of delta frames to the mobile device. The mobile device processes a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames according to the group of delta frames to generate a group of second viewpoint frames and the mobile device presents the group of second viewpoint frames. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a plurality of original frames for video content; receiving a first viewpoint from a mobile device; processing the plurality of original frames according to the first viewpoint generating a plurality of first viewpoint frames; providing the plurality of first viewpoint frames to the mobile device; generating a group of delta frames; and providing the group of delta frames to the mobile device frames in response to receiving a change in viewpoint from the mobile device, wherein the mobile device processes a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames according to the group of delta frames to generate a group of second viewpoint frames, wherein the mobile device presents the group of second viewpoint frames.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the group of delta frames include information that indicate changes in the video content between the portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames and the group of second viewpoint frames.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the providing the plurality of first viewpoint frames comprises providing the plurality of first viewpoint frames using a streaming protocol, wherein the providing the group of delta frames comprises providing the group of delta frames using the streaming protocol.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the streaming protocol comprises one of real-time messaging protocol (RTMP), real-time transport protocol (RTP), or Web Real-time Communications (WebRTC) protocol.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations comprise modifying the streaming protocol.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the modifying the streaming protocol comprises transmitting first viewpoint information for the plurality of first viewpoint frames and transmitting second viewpoint information for the group of delta frames.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the generating of the group of delta frames comprises reprocessing the portion of the plurality of original frames according to the change in viewpoint.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the portion of the plurality of original frames correspond to a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames not yet presented at the mobile device.
9. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving a plurality of original frames for video content; obtaining a request that include a first viewpoint from a mobile device; processing the plurality of original frames according to the first viewpoint generating a plurality of first viewpoint frames; streaming the plurality of first viewpoint frames to the mobile device; generating a group of delta frames in response to detecting a change in viewpoint from the mobile device, wherein the group of delta frames include information that indicate changes in the video content between a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames and a group of second viewpoint frames; and streaming the group of delta frames to the mobile device, wherein the mobile device processes a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames according to the group of delta frames to generate the group of second viewpoint frames, wherein the mobile device presents the group of second viewpoint frames.
10. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the streaming the plurality of first viewpoint frames comprising streaming the plurality of first viewpoint frames using a streaming protocol, wherein the streaming the group of delta frames comprises streaming the group of delta frames using the streaming protocol.
11. The machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the streaming protocol comprises one of real-time messaging protocol (RTMP), real-time transport protocol (RTP), or Web Real-time Communications (WebRTC) protocol.
12. The machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the operations comprise modifying the streaming protocol.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the modifying the streaming protocol comprises pausing the processing of the plurality of original frames.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the generating of the group of delta frames comprises reprocessing the portion of the plurality of original frames according to the change in viewpoint.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the portion of the plurality of original frames correspond to a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames not yet presented at the mobile device.
16. A method, comprising: transmitting, by a processing system including a processor, a first viewpoint to a server that causes the server to process a plurality of original frames according to the first viewpoint to generate a plurality of first viewpoint frames, wherein video content comprises the plurality of original frames; receiving, by the processing system, the plurality of first viewpoint frames from the server; transmitting, by the processing system, a change in viewpoint by a user to the server in response to detecting the change in viewpoint, wherein the server reprocesses a portion of the plurality of original frames according to the change in viewpoint to generate a group of delta frames, wherein the portion of the plurality of original frames correspond to a portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames not yet presented; receiving, by the processing system, the group of delta frames; processing, by the processing system, the portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames according to the group of delta frames to generate a group of second viewpoint frames; and presenting, by the processing system, the group of second viewpoint frames.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the group of delta frames include information that indicate changes in video content between the portion of the plurality of first viewpoint frames and the group of second viewpoint frames.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the receiving of the plurality of first viewpoint frames comprising receiving, by the processing system, the plurality of first viewpoint frames using a streaming protocol, wherein the receiving of the group of delta frames comprises receiving, by the processing system, the group of delta frames using the streaming protocol.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the streaming protocol comprises one of real-time messaging protocol (RTMP) or real-time transport protocol (RTP).
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the server modifies the streaming protocol, wherein modification of the streaming protocol comprises pausing the processing of the plurality of original frames.
</claims>
</document>
