<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/42,A63F13/52,A63F13/53,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAVEZ, ARON R.
ESSELSTROM, TYLER
NOVAK, CHRISTOPHER M.
WHEELER, JOSEPH
WIEST, PETER M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67185804
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMPLEMENTING A GRAPHICAL OVERLAY FOR A STREAMING GAME BASED ON CURRENT GAME SCENARIO
</title>

<abstract>
A system is configured to implement a graphical overlay in a streaming game based on a current game state. Game data generated by a video game is received including game video in the form of a video stream containing game video frames. The game video is displayed on a display screen of a computing device to represent the video game to a user playing the video game at the computing device. At least one feature of the video game is identified at least in the game data. A user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the identified at least one feature is selected from among a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game and a graphical overlay corresponding to the selected UI control configuration is implemented on the video game in the display screen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method in a computing device having a display screen, comprising: identifying at least one feature of a video game in game data generated by the video game; selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the identified at least one feature; and implementing, on game video of the video game displayed in the display screen, a graphical overlay corresponding to the selected UI control configuration, the graphical overlay configured to be interacted with in a corresponding live game scenario of the video game.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving the game data from a server executing the video game and streaming the game data to the computing device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the game data includes audio data; wherein said identifying comprises: identifying, based on the audio data, a feature in audio of the video game; and wherein said selecting comprises: selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the feature from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: displaying game video of the game data on the display screen; wherein said identifying comprises: identifying an image of an object in the game video displayed on the display screen; and wherein said selecting comprises: selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the object from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said identifying comprises: identifying a feature of the video game in a stream of input events provided to the video game.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one feature includes an object, and said identifying further comprising: analyzing a predetermined screen region of the display screen for an image of the object; and determining a confidence score associated with the object indicating a probability of the image of the object being contained in the predetermined screen region.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the display screen is a touch screen, the method further comprising: tuning control associated with the selected UI control configuration corresponding to the graphical overlay for the touch screen, said tuning comprising: linearizing a game input response curve associated with a physical game controller input device, tuning the linearized game input response curve for a touch input of the graphical overlay, and associating the tuned game input response curve with the touch input of the graphical overlay.
8. A system implemented in a computing device having a display screen, comprising: a feature identifier configured to identify at least one feature of a video game in game data generated by the video game; and a control configuration selector configured to: select a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the identified at least one feature, and implement, on game video of the video game displayed in the display screen, a graphical overlay corresponding to the selected UI control configuration, the graphical overlay configured to be interacted with in a corresponding live game scenario of the video game.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the feature identifier is configured to receive the game data from a server executing the video game and streaming the game data to the computing device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the game data includes audio data; wherein the feature identifier is configured to: identify, based on the audio data, a feature in audio of the video game; and wherein the control configuration selector is configured to: select a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the feature from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the feature identifier is configured to: identify an image of an object in the game video displayed on the display screen; and wherein the control configuration selector is configured to: select a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the object from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the feature identifier is configured to identify a feature of the video game in a stream of input events provided to the video game.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one feature includes an object, and the feature identifier is configured to: analyze a predetermined screen region of the display screen for an image of the object; and determine a confidence score associated with the object indicating a probability of the image of the object being contained in the predetermined screen region.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the display screen is a touch screen, and the video game streaming client further comprises: a game input response tuner configured to tune control associated with the selected UI control configuration corresponding to the graphical overlay for the touch screen, including being configured to: linearize a game input response curve associated with a physical game controller input device, tune the linearized game input response curve for a touch input of the graphical overlay, and associate the tuned game input response curve with the touch input of the graphical overlay.
15. A computer-readable medium having program code recorded thereon that when executed by at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform a method, the method comprising: identifying at least one feature of a video game in game data generated by the video game; selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the identified at least one feature; and implementing, on game video of the video game displayed in a display screen, a graphical overlay corresponding to the selected UI control configuration, the graphical overlay configured to be interacted with in a corresponding live game scenario of the video game.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: receiving the game data from a server executing the video game and streaming the game data to the computing device.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the game data includes audio data; wherein said identifying comprises: identifying, based on the audio data, a feature in audio of the video game; and wherein said selecting comprises: selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the feature from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: displaying game video of the game data on the display screen; wherein said identifying comprises: identifying an image of an object in the game video displayed on the display screen; and wherein said selecting comprises: selecting a user interface (UI) control configuration associated with the object from a plurality of UI control configurations for the video game.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein said identifying comprises: identifying a feature of the video game in a stream of input events provided to the video game.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the display screen is a touch screen, the method further comprising: tuning control associated with the selected UI control configuration corresponding to the graphical overlay for the touch screen, said tuning comprising: linearizing a game input response curve associated with a physical game controller input device, tuning the linearized game input response curve for a touch input of the graphical overlay, and associating the tuned game input response curve with the touch input of the graphical overlay.
</claims>
</document>
