<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORESCOUT TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, SIYING
ZHANG, YANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67139802
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Self-training classification
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and related technologies for self-training classification are described. In certain aspects, a plurality of device classification methods with associated models are accessed. Each of the classification methods have an associated reliability level. The models of classification methods with a higher reliability level than other classifications methods are used to train the models associated with lower reliability level. The trained models and associated classification methods are thus improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A training method comprising: accessing a plurality of device classification methods, wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated model, and wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated reliability level; generating a respective data set associated with each of the device classification methods based on classifying a plurality of devices communicatively coupled to a network; selecting a first device classification method and a second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods, wherein the first device classification method has a higher reliability level than the second device classification method; determining a training data set using a respective data set associated with the first device classification method; training, by a processing device, the second device classification method model using the training data set; and storing the trained second device classification model.
2. The training method of claim 1, further comprising: performing an initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network; and determining which of the plurality of device classification methods can be used based on the initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network.
3. The training method of claim 1, further comprising: performing classification using the second device classification method.
4. The training method of claim 1, wherein the training of the second device classification method model using the training data set is performed on a per device basis.
5. The training method of claim 1, wherein each respective model associated with the plurality of device classification methods is a machine learning model.
6. The training method of claim 1, wherein the respective associated reliability level associated with the plurality of device classification methods is configurable.
7. The training method of claim 1, wherein the respective associated reliability level associated with a device classification methods is automatically adjusted based on one or more classification results based on the device classification method.
8. The training method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the first device classification method and the second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods is based on a network environment.
9. The training method of claim 1, wherein the first device classification method comprises at least one of an agent based classification method, an aggregator based method, an active probing based method, a passive traffic analysis method, a traffic log analysis method, or a traffic based behavior heuristic method.
10. A system comprising: a memory; and a processing device, operatively coupled to the memory, to: access a plurality of device classification methods, wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated model, and wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated reliability level; generate a respective data set associated with each of the device classification methods based on classifying a plurality of devices communicatively coupled to a network; select a first device classification method and a second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods, wherein the first device classification method has a higher reliability level than the second device classification method; determine a training data set using a respective data set associated with the first device classification method; train the second device classification method model using the training data set; and store the trained second device classification model.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processing device further to: perform an initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network; and determine which of the plurality of device classification methods can be used based on the initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the processing device further to: perform classification using the second device classification method.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the training of the second device classification method model using the training data set is performed on a per device basis.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein each respective model associated with the plurality of device classification methods is a machine learning model.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the respective associated reliability level associated with the plurality of device classification methods is configurable.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the selecting of the first device classification method and the second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods is based on a network environment.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the first device classification method comprises at least one of an agent based classification method, an aggregator based method, an active probing based method, a passive traffic analysis method, a traffic log analysis method, or a traffic based behavior heuristic method.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to: access a plurality of device classification methods, wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated model, and wherein each of the plurality of methods has a respective associated reliability level; generate a respective data set associated with each of the device classification methods based on classifying a plurality of devices communicatively coupled to a network; select a first device classification method and a second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods, wherein the first device classification method has a higher reliability level than the second device classification method; determine a training data set using a respective data set associated with the first device classification method; train, by the processing device, the second device classification method model using the training data set; and storing the trained second device classification model.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the instructions further cause the processing device to: perform an initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network; and determine which of the plurality of device classification methods can be used based on the initial classification of the plurality of devices communicatively coupled to the network.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the training of the second device classification method model using the training data set is performed on a per device basis.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein the selection of the first device classification method and the second device classification method of the plurality of device classification methods is based on a network environment.
</claims>
</document>
