<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, NIPUN
HETHERINGTON, TAYLER
IDICULA, SAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883476
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED WINDOW BASED FEATURE GENERATION FOR TIME-SERIES FORECASTING AND ANOMALY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described herein for automatically generating statistical features describing trends in time-series data that may then become inputs to machine learning models. The framework involves a set of algorithms for selecting a number and size of window based statistical features to use as input features, evaluating them during a series of training phases with a machine learning model using training, test and validation time series data. The training and evaluation phases provide particular values for a number and a size of window based statistical features that yield best scores in terms of prediction accuracy. The particular values are then used with input time series data to generate an augmented time-series data to input to the trained machine learning model for obtaining predictions regarding the time series as well as identified anomalies in the input time series data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving input time-series data for training a machine learning model; generating sets of time-series data from the input time-series data, each set of time-series data of said set of time-series including a respective set of features that are each calculated using a window based statistical function, each feature of said respective set of features having a window size, the window size of each feature of said respective set of features being different than the window size of each other feature of said respective set of features; for each set of time-series data of said sets of time-series data: generating a respective trained machine learning model by at least training a machine learning model based on said each of set of time-series data; generating a respective predication accuracy score for said respective trained machine learning model; and selecting a set of features associated with a set of time-series data of said sets of time series data based on the respective predication accuracy generated for each set of time series data of said sets of time series data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a set of features includes at least performing gradient descent computation on the respective prediction accuracy score generated for each set of time-series data of said sets of time-series data.
3. The method of claim 2, further including: receiving a specification for a range to search within a search space, thereby defining a specified search space; generating time series data within the specified search space for training machine learning models.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein using a window based statistical function includes using one or more of: moving averages, weighted moving averages, moving variance, and moving gradient.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a set of features comprises: selecting a respective trained machine learning model that yields a best prediction accuracy score as a selected trained machine learning model for making predictions and identifying anomalies given input time-series data; and selecting a particular window size value of a window size based on the selected trained machine learning model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting a set of features comprises: selecting a respective trained machine learning model that yields a best prediction accuracy score as a selected trained machine learning model for making predictions and identifying anomalies given input time-series data; and selecting a number of features that are each calculated using a window based statistical function.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving particular time-series input data for performing predictions and identifying anomalies; receiving one or more values of recommended parameters for the selected trained machine learning model, wherein the one or more values specify one or more of: a type of the window based statistical function; a window size; a number of windows. based on the recommended parameters, automatically generating an augmented time-series data from the particular input time-series data; providing the augmented time-series data to the selected trained machine learning model; and receiving, from the selected trained machine learning model, predictions for future time-series data as well as identified anomalies in the time-series input data.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein automatically generating the augmented time-series data from the time-series input data comprises: automatically generating a particular set of one or more statistical features according to the recommended parameters; and automatically concatenating the particular set of one or more statistical features to the particular time-series input data to generate the augmented time-series data.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising receiving one or more of: a selection of a search algorithm for selecting said set of features, a selection of said window based statistical function to evaluate, a selection of a type of said machine learning model, receiving a specification for ranges defining a search space of window sizes, and receiving a maximum number of window sizes to evaluate.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the selection of a search algorithm for selecting said set of features comprises: grid search algorithm; random search algorithm; and gradient descent algorithm.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the selection of a type of said machine learning model comprises one or more of: random forest model; autoencoder model; multilayer perceptron model; and recurrent neural networks and long short-term memory model.
12. One or more non-transitory storage media storing sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause: receiving input time-series data for training a machine learning model; generating sets of time-series data from the input time-series data, each set of time-series data of said set of time-series including a respective set of features that are each calculated using a window based statistical function, each feature of said respective set of features having a window size, the window size of each feature of said respective set of features being different than the window size of each other feature of said respective set of features; for each set of time-series data of said sets of time-series data: generating a respective trained machine learning model by at least training a machine learning model based on said each of set of time-series data; generating a respective predication accuracy score for said respective trained machine learning model; and selecting a set of features associated with a set of time-series data of said sets of time series data based on the respective predication accuracy generated for each set of time series data of said sets of time series data.
13. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 12, wherein selecting a set of features includes at least performing gradient descent computation on the respective prediction accuracy score generated for each set of time-series data of said sets of time-series data.
14. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, the sequences of instructions including instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause: receiving a specification for a range to search within a search space, thereby defining a specified search space; generating time series data within the specified search space for training machine learning models.
15. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 12, wherein using a window based statistical function includes using one or more of: moving averages, weighted moving averages, moving variance, and moving gradient.
16. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 12, wherein selecting a set of features comprises: selecting a respective trained machine learning model that yields a best prediction accuracy score as a selected trained machine learning model for making predictions and identifying anomalies given input time-series data; and selecting a particular window size value of a window size based on the selected trained machine learning model.
17. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 12, wherein selecting a set of features comprises: selecting a respective trained machine learning model that yields a best prediction accuracy score as a selected trained machine learning model for making predictions and identifying anomalies given input time-series data; and selecting a number of features that are each calculated using a window based statistical function.
18. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 17, the sequences of instructions including instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause: receiving particular time-series input data for performing predictions and identifying anomalies; receiving one or more values of recommended parameters for the selected trained machine learning model, wherein the one or more values specify one or more of: a type of the window based statistical function; a window size; a number of windows. based on the recommended parameters, automatically generating an augmented time-series data from the particular input time-series data; providing the augmented time-series data to the selected trained machine learning model; and receiving, from the selected trained machine learning model, predictions for future time-series data as well as identified anomalies in the time-series input data.
19. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 18, wherein automatically generating the augmented time-series data from the time-series input data comprises: automatically generating a particular set of one or more statistical features according to the recommended parameters; and automatically concatenating the particular set of one or more statistical features to the particular time-series input data to generate the augmented time-series data.
20. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, the sequences of instructions including instructions that, when executed by said one or more processors, cause: receiving one or more of: a selection of a search algorithm for selecting said set of features, a selection of said window based statistical function to evaluate, a selection of a type of said machine learning model, a specification for ranges defining a search space of window sizes, and a maximum number of window sizes to evaluate.
21. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 20, wherein the selection of a search algorithm for selecting said set of features comprises: grid search algorithm; random search algorithm; and gradient descent algorithm.
22. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 20, wherein the selection of a type of said machine learning model comprises one or more of: random forest model; autoencoder model; multilayer perceptron model; and recurrent neural networks and long short-term memory model.
</claims>
</document>
