<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06F17/18,G06F9/54,G06K9/62,G06N7/00,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
D'AMATO, FERNANDO
ABBASZADEH, MASOUD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280779
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION AND PROTECTION AGAINST MODE SWITCHING ATTACKS IN CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A cyber-physical system may have a plurality of monitoring nodes each generating a series of current monitoring node values over time that represent current operation of the cyber-physical system. According to some embodiments, a features extraction computer platform may receive the series of current monitoring node values over time and generate current feature vectors based on the series of current monitoring mode values. A system mode estimation computer platform may provide the current feature vectors to a probabilistic graphical model to generate an estimated system mode. The system mode estimation computer platform may then compare the estimated system mode with a currently reported system mode output by the cyber-physical system and generate a system mode status indication based on a result of said comparison. According to some embodiments, the system mode status indication can be used to override the currently reported system mode of the cyber-physical system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to protect a cyber-physical system having a plurality of monitoring nodes each generating a series of current monitoring node values over time that represent current operation of the cyber-physical system, comprising: a features extraction computer platform having a memory and a computer processor adapted to: receive the series of current monitoring node values over time, and generate current feature vectors based on the series of current monitoring mode values; and a system mode estimation computer platform having a memory and a computer processor adapted to: provide the current feature vectors to a probabilistic graphical model to generate an estimated system mode, compare the estimated system mode with a currently reported system mode output by the cyber-physical system, and generate a system mode status indication based on a result of said comparison.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilistic graphical model is associated with at least one of: (i) a hidden Markov model, (ii) a hidden semi-Markov model, (iii) a conditional random fields model, and (iv) a Bayesian network.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the system mode status indication is used to override the currently reported system mode of the cyber-physical system.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the override is only performed if a confidence level associated with the estimated system mode is above a pre-determined threshold value.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the override is only performed when permitted by system specification requirements.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein an abnormality detection and localization process determines that a subset of the monitoring nodes are currently experiencing a cyber-attack or fault and data associated with the subset is not provided to the probabilistic graphical model.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein monitoring node values from at least one node in the subset are replaced with virtual estimated values.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the current feature vectors is associated with at least one of: (i) a rate of change of time-domain signals, and (ii) a rate of change of a feature.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the features extraction computer platform is further adapted to: compare the current feature vectors with a data-driven feature decision boundary, and generate an abnormal alert signal.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein at least one decision boundary and abnormal alert signal are associated with a global feature vector.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein at least one decision boundary and abnormal alert signal are associated with a local feature vector.
12. The system of claim 9, further comprising: a normal space data source storing, for each of the plurality of monitoring nodes, a series of normal monitoring node values over time that represent normal operation of the cyber-physical system; and an abnormal space data source storing, for each of the plurality of monitoring nodes, a series of abnormal monitoring node values over time that represent abnormal operation of the cyber-physical system, wherein the features extraction computer platform is further adapted to: receive the series normal monitoring node values and generate a set of normal feature vectors, receive the series of abnormal monitoring node values and generate a set of abnormal feature vectors, and automatically calculate and output the at least one decision boundary for an abnormal detection platform based on the set of normal feature vectors and the set of abnormal feature vectors
13. A method to protect a cyber-physical system having a plurality of monitoring nodes each generating a series of current monitoring node values over time that represent current operation of the cyber-physical system, comprising: receiving, at a features extraction computer platform, the series of current monitoring node values over time; generating, by the features extraction computer platform, current feature vectors based on the series of current monitoring mode values; providing, by a system mode estimation computer platform, the current feature vectors to a probabilistic graphical model to generate an estimated system mode; comparing, by the system mode estimation computer platform, the estimated system mode with a currently reported system mode output by the cyber-physical system; and generating, by the system mode estimation computer platform, a system mode status indication based on a result of said comparison.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the probabilistic graphical model is associated with at least one of: (i) a hidden Markov model, (ii) a hidden semi-Markov model, (iii) a conditional random fields model, and (iv) a Bayesian network.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the system mode status indication is used to override the currently reported system mode of the cyber-physical system.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the override is only performed if a confidence level associated with the estimated system mode is above a pre-determined threshold value.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the override is only performed when permitted by system specification requirements.
18. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program code, the program code executable by a computer processor to cause the processor to perform a method to protect a cyber-physical system having a plurality of monitoring nodes each generating a series of current monitoring node values over time that represent current operation of the cyber-physical system, the method comprising: receiving, at a features extraction computer platform, the series of current monitoring node values over time; generating, by the features extraction computer platform, current feature vectors based on the series of current monitoring mode values; providing, by a system mode estimation computer platform, the current feature vectors to a probabilistic graphical model to generate an estimated system mode; comparing, by the system mode estimation computer platform, the estimated system mode with a currently reported system mode output by the cyber-physical system; and generating, by the system mode estimation computer platform, a system mode status indication based on a result of said comparison.
19. The medium of claim 18, wherein an abnormality detection and localization process determines that a subset of the monitoring nodes are currently experiencing a cyber-attack or fault and data associated with the subset is not provided to the probabilistic graphical model.
20. The medium of claim 19, wherein monitoring node values from at least one node in the subset are replaced with virtual estimated values.
21. The medium of claim 18, wherein at least one of the current feature vectors is associated with at least one of: (i) a rate of change of time-domain signals, and (ii) a rate of change of a feature.
</claims>
</document>
