<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AERIS COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AVARY, MICHELLE LYNNE
PLAGER, HENRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73231290
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC CONNECTED VEHICLE ENROLLMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is directed toward an automated automotive enrollment system and method for automatically enrolling a vehicle whereafter the vehicle may be registered with one or more subscription-based events based on customer and vehicle data associations. In one more embodiments, a computer implemented method provides for identifying customer and vehicle information in conjunction with registration and subscription event opportunities, and provides for activating an associated subscription set in response to the specific customer and vehicle information so that the vehicle is suitably enrolled.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for on-boarding a vehicle via a vehicle registration network; the method comprising: providing an interactive interface for registering the vehicle, receiving vehicle and customer information from one or more networked resources, transmitting an initial message to the vehicle to be registered, receiving an initial response to the initial message, verifying availability of the vehicle to be registered, verifying a level of services to be activated for the vehicle when registered, and activating the level of services for the registered vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein verifying availability of the vehicle to be registered includes comparing at least the initial response with at least one characteristic of the vehicle and customer information.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the interactive interface includes one or more of an in-vehicle computer touch screen, an application for a smart phone having an input capability, a shared messaging service, a web page, a web-based hyperlink, and an email requiring a response.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more networked resources includes at least one data source having vehicle information or customer information accessible by the vehicle registration network.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the vehicle information includes one or more of a retail delivery report (RDR), registered vehicles data, registered vehicle owners data, registered vehicle credential identification data, registered vehicle security data, vehicle identification number (VIN) data, title information, insurance information, ownership information, past history information, subscription information, vehicle geolocation information, publicly available information, and private sourced information.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the subscription information includes data from one or more commercial databases including Polk, IHS and Nielsen.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the customer information include one or more of customer identification information, customer purchasing history, customer ownership information, customer geolocation information, customer subscription information, customer account data, customer contact information, customer marketing information, publicly available information about the customer and private sourced information about the customer.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the customer marketing information includes web history associated with vehicle manufacturer, prior contacts with vehicle manufacturer and distributor, incentive and rebate utilization, responses to targeted marketing regarding vehicle, email address(es), and registered applications utilized by customer.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein the initial message is a welcome message transmitted wirelessly from the network to a receiving device activating the interactive interface for registering the vehicle, wherein the receiving device includes one or more of a vehicle, smart phone, computer, shared messaging service, email or computer-based tool capable of activating a software-based application.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the initial response is an input entered in response to the initial message.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the input entered is a customer's email provided in response to the welcome message asking for the customer's email.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein comparing at least the initial response with at least one characteristic of the vehicle and customer information includes comparing the customer email input with the customer identification information to verify that the customer registering the vehicle is the owner of the vehicle.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein verifying availability of the vehicle to be registered is successfully determined where compared input with the vehicle and customer information is verified to be authentic and properly associated for registration; and the availability of the vehicle to be registered is unsuccessfully determined where compared input with the vehicle and customer information is verified to not be properly associated for registration.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the level of services to be activated for the registered vehicle is determined in relation to ownership of the vehicle, and wherein the level of services to be activated for the registered vehicle are activated.
15. A system for use in an automotive sales network for enrolling a vehicle to one or more subscription-based events, comprising: an interactive interface engine providing an interactive interface for registering the vehicle and which is capable of receiving and transmitting messages, a communications and verification engine for receiving vehicle and customer information from one or more networked databases and comparing data obtained in the received and transmitted messages with the received vehicle and customer information, an enrollment engine for enrolling the vehicle as a registered vehicle capable of having one or more activated subscription-based events, an activation engine for activating one or more subscription-based events in association with a level of service to be activated for the vehicle when registered, a computer-based secure communication system capable of communications with the one or more networked databases, the vehicle and a sales center, wherein the secure communication is further capable of transmitting and receiving messages to and from the vehicle wirelessly, and a reporting engine for generating one or more reports in response to data from one or more of the enrollment engine and the activation engine.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the subscription-based events include one or more of a for-fee application, for-free application, music service, emergency service, safety and notification service, diagnostic service, reporting service, maintenance service, in-car application, mobile application, and remote application.
17. A computer program product containing a computer readable medium for use in an automotive sales network; the program instructions for: providing an interactive interface for registering the vehicle, receiving vehicle and customer information from one or more networked databases, transmitting an initial message to the vehicle to be registered and receiving an initial response to the initial message, verifying availability of the vehicle to be registered by comparing the initial response to information in the one or more networked databases, verifying a level of services to be activated for the vehicle when registered, and activating the level of services for the registered vehicle.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the interactive interface includes one or more of an in-vehicle computer touch screen, an application for a smart phone having an input capability, a shared messaging service, a web page, a web-based hyperlink, and an email requiring a response, and wherein the one or more networked resources includes at least one data source having vehicle information or customer information accessible by the vehicle registration network.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the level of services are tiered offering of subscription services.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the interactive interface resides on a device which comprises any type of computer-based device, appliance, terminal, remote controlling device, vehicle, or wireless asset.
</claims>
</document>
