<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GHENT UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE BIE, TIJL
KANG, BO
LIJFFIJT, JEFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123128
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORK EMBEDDING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method to map nodes of a given network, comprises a set of links between the nodes, onto points in a d-dimensional Euclidean space wherein d is equal to 1 or larger. The method comprises identifying and modeling information about structural properties of the network related to the nodes and the set of links between them, and searching an embedding which maps information of the network which is not part of or implied by these structural properties onto points in the d-dimensional Euclidean space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method to map nodes of a given network, comprising a set of links between the nodes, onto points in a d-dimensional Euclidean space wherein d is equal to 2 or larger, the method comprising: identifying and modeling information about structural properties of the network related to the nodes and the set of links between them, searching an embedding which maps information of the network which is not part of or implied by these structural properties onto points in the d-dimensional Euclidean space.
2. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1, wherein modeling the information about the structural properties of the network comprises formalizing the information about the structural properties as a prior probability distribution P(G) over the set of links of the network.
3. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 2, wherein the prior probability distribution over the set of links of the network is computed as a distribution of maximum entropy subject to the information about the structural properties of the network.
4. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1, wherein the network is a multi-partite network comprising a plurality of blocks and wherein the information about the structural properties comprises which nodes are belonging to which block and the number of links between each pair of such blocks.
5. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1, wherein the information about the structural properties comprises a degree of connectivity of at least some of the nodes.
6. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 2, wherein searching the embedding comprises searching an embedding X that maximizes a likelihood function P(G|X) which represents a posterior distribution over the set of links of the network given the embedding X when considered together with the probability distribution P(G).
7. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 6, wherein the likelihood function P(G|X) is obtained by multiplying the probability distribution P(G) over the set of links of the network with a proper or improper conditional density function p(X|G) for the embedding X given the network and dividing it by a corresponding proper or improper marginal density function p(X) for the embedding X.
8. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 6, wherein maximizing the likelihood function is based on a block stochastic gradient descent approach.
9. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 7, wherein the proper or improper conditional density function p(X|G) for the embedding X given the network G is formulated as a product of density functions for pairs of the points in the embedding, wherein the mathematical form and wherein parameters of each of these density functions depend on the network G.
10. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 9, wherein the mathematical form and the parameters of the density function for any pair of the points is independent of the network when conditioned on knowledge whether the nodes represented by these points are linked in the network.
11. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 10, wherein the proper or improper conditional density function for any pair of points depends only on the pairwise distance between that pair of points in the embedding.
12. A computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 11, wherein density functions for the distances between pairs of points are such that a standard deviation of the distances between pairs of points which represent linked nodes in the network is smaller than a standard deviation of the distances between pairs of points which represent unlinked nodes in the network.
13. A link prediction method for predicting for any pair of nodes of a given network whether it is likely to be linked or unlinked in a more complete or more accurate version of the network than the given network, or whether it is likely to become linked or unlinked in the future as the network evolves, the method comprising applying a computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1 on the given network and applying a link prediction algorithm on the obtained embedding in combination with the information about the structural properties of the network.
14. A link prediction method according to claim 13, where the link prediction method scores each pair of nodes using a posterior probability P(aij|X) for such pair of nodes to be linked or unlinked as computed from a likelihood function P(G|X) which represents a posterior distribution of the plurality of networks given the embedding X when considered together with the prior probability distribution P(G).
15. A label prediction method comprising a link prediction method according to claim 13 in a network augmented with a node for each possible label and a link between an original network node and an added label node whenever that label applies to that node, wherein a node is predicted to have a particular label if a link is predicted between that node and the corresponding label node by the link prediction method.
16. A recommender system comprising a link prediction method according to claim 13, the method comprising applying the link prediction method to a network with consumers and consumables as nodes, wherein links of the network indicate consumables which are recommended to consumers, to obtain new links between the customers and consumers.
17. A network visualization method comprising applying a computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1 wherein identifying the information about the structural properties is selected such that certain information is filtered out, the method moreover comprising applying a link prediction algorithm on the obtained embedding.
18. An entity resolution method comprising a computer-implemented conditional network embedding method according to claim 1, where a distance between two node embeddings is used as a measure for the similarity between two nodes, and for the probability that they represent the same entity.
</claims>
</document>
