<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00,G06T13/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILLER, IV, THOMAS MARSHALL
LIN, JEFFREY
QUACH, THE HUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68238134
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AVATAR FACIAL EXPRESSION REPRESENTATION IN MULTIDIMENSIONAL SPACE
</title>

<abstract>
Examples of the disclosed systems and methods may provide for improved and more realistic rendering of virtual characters and a more realistic interaction between a user and virtual characters. For example, the systems and methods describe techniques for mathematically generating a map used for animating facial expressions in a multidimensional animation blendspace. As another example, the systems and methods describe a transition system for dynamically transitioning facial expressions across a face of the virtual character. As another example, realistic physical movements can be added to a virtual character's facial expressions to provide interactivity with other virtual characters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for transitioning a first expression to a second expression for a virtual character, the system comprising: non-transitory storage medium storing vector values for facial expressions of a virtual character; and a hardware processor programmed to: detect a first trigger of an expression change from a first expression to a second expression; in response to the first trigger, determine first values of parameters of a transition system, wherein the parameters comprise a starting facial expression, an ending facial expression, and a sweep direction; determine a first starting facial expression and a first ending facial expression for a first time period during the transition from the first expression to the second expression based at least in part on the first values of the parameters of the transition system; update the vector values for changing the virtual character's facial expression from the first starting facial expression and the first ending facial expression at the first time period; detect a second trigger of another expression change from the second expression to a third expression; in response to the second trigger, determine second values of the parameters of the transition system; determine a second starting facial expression and a second ending facial expression for a second time period based at least in part on the first values and the second values of the parameters of the transition systems; and update the vector values for changing the virtual character's facial expression from the second starting facial expression to the second ending facial expression at the second time period.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first trigger or the second trigger is caused by: an interaction of a user with the virtual character or an event in an environment of the virtual character.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the second time period occurs during the transition between the first expression to the second expression.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the second ending facial expression comprises a first portion of the face having a first expression associated with the second expression and a second portion of the face having a second expression associated with the third expression.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to calculate a rate of change of expressions, and wherein the second ending facial expression comprises the first and the second expressions in response to a determination that the rate of change of expressions is faster than a sweep speed associated with transitioning from the first expression to the second expression.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein facial expression of the virtual character's face is controlled by a face vector comprising a plurality of dimensions with each vector value corresponding to a dimension of the plurality of dimensions.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the second starting facial expression is the same as the first ending facial expression.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first, second, or third expression can be determined from a wheel shaped map comprising a set of expressions projected on to a plurality of arms of the wheel shaped map wherein similar expressions are located in the same directions on the wheel shaped map.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein a movement from the first expression to the second expression and then to the third expression is associated with an expression change trajectory on the wheel shaped map.
10. A method for transitioning a first expression to a second expression for a virtual character, the method comprising: under control of a hardware processor: detecting a first trigger of an expression change from a first expression to a second expression; in response to the first trigger, determining a first starting facial expression and a first ending facial expression for a first time period during a transition from the first expression to the second expression; updating vector values of a face vector for changing a virtual character's facial expression from the first starting facial expression and the first ending facial expression at the first time period; detecting a second trigger of another expression change from the second expression to a third expression; in response to the second trigger, determining a second starting facial expression and a second ending facial expression for a second time period to transition to the third expression; and updating the vector values for changing the virtual character's facial expression from the second starting facial expression to the second ending facial expression at the second time period, wherein the second time period occurs during the transition between the first expression to the second expression.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the first trigger or the second trigger is caused by: an interaction of a user with the virtual character or an event in an environment of the virtual character.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the second ending facial expression comprises a first portion of the face having a first expression associated with the second expression and a second portion of the face having a second expression associated with the third expression.
13. The method of claim 12, the second ending facial expression comprises the first and the second expressions in response to a determination that a rate of change of expressions is faster than a sweep speed associated with transitioning from the first expression to the second expression.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein facial expression of the virtual character's face is controlled by a face vector comprising a plurality of dimensions with each vector value corresponding to a dimension of the plurality of dimensions.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the second starting facial expression is the same as the first ending facial expression.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the first expression is the same as the third expression.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the first, second, or third expression can be determined from a wheel shaped map comprising a set of expressions projected on to a plurality of arms of the wheel shaped map wherein similar expressions are located in the same directions on the wheel shaped map.
18. A method for transitioning expressions for a virtual character, the method comprising: under control of a hardware processor: identifying a first trigger of a first expression change from a first expression to a second expression for a virtual character; determining parameters of the first expression change; sweeping the second expression across the face of the virtual character based at least in part on the parameters; identifying a second trigger of a second expression change from the second expression to a third expression, wherein the second trigger occurs prior to the first expression change completes; and initiating sweeping of the third expression across the face while continue to sweep the second expression across the face.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein initiating sweeping of the third expression across the face while continuing to sweep the second expression across the face comprises: changing a first region of the face from the second expression to the third expression; and changing a second region of the face from the first expression to the second expression.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the parameters comprise at least one of a sweeping speed or a sweeping direction.
</claims>
</document>
