<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, JIYOUNG
CHOI, YUNA
HONG, KEYJO
JUNG, JINWOOK
LEE, CHANGLAE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68655272
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TOMOGRAPHIC IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS AND METHOD, AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT
</title>

<abstract>
A tomographic image processing apparatus including a display, an input interface configured to receive an external input, a storage storing an input tomographic image of an object, and at least one processor configured to control the display to display the input tomographic image, determine a material combination to be separated from the input tomographic image, and control the display to display material separation information corresponding to the determined material combination for a region of interest selected in the input tomographic image based on the external input. The input tomographic image is a spectral tomographic image having a plurality of tomographic images respectively corresponding to a plurality of energy levels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A tomographic image processing apparatus comprising: a display; an input interface configured to receive an external input; a storage storing an input tomographic image of an object; and at least one processor configured to: control the display to display the input tomographic image; determine a material combination to be separated from the input tomographic image; and control the display to display material separation information corresponding to the determined material combination for a region of interest selected in the input tomographic image based on the external input, wherein the input tomographic image is a spectral tomographic image comprising a plurality of tomographic images respectively corresponding to a plurality of energy levels.
2. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to select the material combination based on a type of the object or the external input.
3. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the storage further stores the material separation information for each pixel in the input tomographic image, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to control the display to display the stored material separation information based on the external input for selecting the region of interest.
4. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to control the display to display information about a tumor or lesion in the input tomographic image of the object.
5. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine the information about the tumor or lesion based on the material separation information.
6. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to obtain a material separation model for acquiring the material separation information based on input tomographic image data of the input tomographic image by using training data which includes a plurality of pieces of spectral tomographic image data and is acquired when information about a proportion of each material and its energy attenuation value are known.
7. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 6, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to generate augmented training data by fitting a concentration or density to the training data.
8. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 7, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: train a deep neural network with the augmented training data; generate a deep neural network model for differentiating the material separation information with respect to each pixel from the input tomographic image data of the input tomographic image; and identify the material separation information in the input tomographic image data by using the deep neural network model.
9. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 8, wherein the input tomographic image data is raw data of the input tomographic image.
10. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the region of interest is a region including at least one pixel.
11. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the material separation information is displayed in a graph form indicating probability information regarding the determined material combination.
12. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the material separation information is displayed in the input tomographic image as a color map representing a distribution of each material in the determined material combination.
13. The tomographic image processing apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a data acquirer configured to acquire raw data with respect to the object.
14. A tomographic image processing method comprising: displaying an input tomographic image of an object; determining a material combination to be separated from the input tomographic image; and displaying material separation information corresponding to the determined material combination for a region of interest selected in the input tomographic image based on an external input, wherein the input tomographic image is a spectral tomographic image comprising a plurality of tomographic images respectively corresponding to a plurality of energy levels.
15. The tomographic image processing method of claim 14, wherein the determining of the material combination comprises selecting the material combination based on a type of the object or the external input.
16. The tomographic image processing method of claim 14, further comprising: storing the material separation information for each pixel in the input tomographic image; and displaying the stored material separation information based on the external input for selecting the region of interest.
17. The tomographic image processing method of claim 14, further comprising displaying information about a tumor or lesion in the input tomographic image of the object.
18. The tomographic image processing method of claim 17, further comprising determining the information about the tumor or lesion based on the material separation information.
19. The tomographic image processing method of claim 14, further comprising obtaining a material separation model for acquiring the material separation information based on input tomographic image data of the input tomographic image by using training data which includes a plurality of pieces of spectral tomographic image data and is acquired when information about a proportion of each material and its energy attenuation value are known.
20. A computer program product comprising a recording medium having stored therein program commands, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a tomographic image processing method comprising: displaying an input tomographic image of an object; determining a material combination to be separated from the input tomographic image; and displaying material separation information corresponding to the determined material combination for a region of interest selected in the input tomographic image based on an external input, wherein the input tomographic image is a spectral tomographic image comprising a plurality of tomographic images respectively corresponding to a plurality of energy levels.
</claims>
</document>
