<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/30,G01C21/36,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOBILEYE VISION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GDALYAHU, YORAM
SPRINGER, OFER
GUBERMAN, YAHEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63143286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BATCH ALIGNMENT FOR NAVIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for aligning navigation information from a plurality of vehicles. A server may be configured to receive navigation information from a plurality of vehicles, wherein the navigation information is associated with a common road segment. The server may align the navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles; store the aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment; and distribute the aligned navigational information to one or more autonomous vehicles for use in autonomously navigating the one or more autonomous vehicles along the common road segment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processing device, cause a server to: receive navigation information from a plurality of vehicles, wherein the navigation information from the plurality of vehicles is associated with a common road segment; align the navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles; store the aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment; and distribute the aligned navigational information to one or more autonomous vehicles for use in autonomously navigating the one or more autonomous vehicles along the common road segment.
22. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the navigational information is received over a computer network.
23. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the navigational information includes global positioning system (GPS) information.
24. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the navigational information includes one or more landmarks included in images captured by the image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles.
25. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 24, wherein aligning the navigational information is based on the one or more landmarks.
26. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 24, wherein the one or more landmarks comprise visible objects along the common road segment.
27. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 26, wherein the objects comprise at least one of road markings and road signs.
28. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: extrapolate the aligned navigational information to a set of global coordinates; and store the globally aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment.
29. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the plurality of vehicles captured the navigational information during a particular time period.
30. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 29, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: receive additional navigational information from a second plurality of vehicles, wherein the additional navigation information from the second plurality of vehicles is captured during a second time period and is associated with the common road segment; align the additional navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the second plurality of vehicles; and store the aligned additional navigational information in association with the common road segment.
31. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 30, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: extrapolate the aligned navigational information and the aligned additional navigational information to a set of global coordinates; and store the globally aligned navigational information and additional navigational information in association with the common road segment.
32. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the plurality of vehicles captured the navigational information over a number of drives, the number of drives not exceeding a threshold number of drives.
33. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 32, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: receive additional navigational information from a second plurality of vehicles, wherein the additional navigation information from the second plurality of vehicles is captured over additional drives and is associated with the common road segment; align the additional navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the second plurality of vehicles; and store the aligned additional navigational information in association with the common road segment.
34. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 33, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: extrapolate the aligned navigational information and the aligned additional navigational information to a set of global coordinates; and store the globally aligned navigational information and additional navigational information in association with the common road segment.
35. A server for aligning navigation information from a plurality of vehicles, the server comprising: at least one processing device programmed to: receive the navigation information from the plurality of vehicles, wherein the navigation information from the plurality of vehicles is associated with a common road segment; align the navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles; store the aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment; and distribute the aligned navigational information to one or more autonomous vehicles for use in autonomously navigating the one or more autonomous vehicles along the common road segment.
36. The server of claim 35, wherein the at least one processing device is further programmed to: extrapolate the aligned navigational information to a set of global coordinates; and store the globally aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment.
37. The server of claim 35, wherein the plurality of vehicles captured the navigational information during a particular time period, and the at least one processing device is further programmed to: receive additional navigational information from a second plurality of vehicles, wherein the additional navigation information from the second plurality of vehicles is captured during a second time period and is associated with the common road segment; align the additional navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the second plurality of vehicles; and store the aligned additional navigational information in association with the common road segment
38. The server of claim 35, wherein the plurality of vehicles captured the navigational information over a number of drives, the number of drives not exceeding a threshold number of drives, and the at least one processing device is further programmed to: receive additional navigational information from a second plurality of vehicles, wherein the additional navigation information from the second plurality of vehicles is captured over additional drives and is associated with the common road segment; align the additional navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the second plurality of vehicles; and store the aligned additional navigational information in association with the common road segment.
39. The server of claim 35, wherein the navigational information includes global positioning system (GPS) information and one or more landmarks included in images captured by the image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles.
40. A computer-implemented method for aligning navigation information from a plurality of vehicles, the method comprising: receiving the navigation information from the plurality of vehicles, wherein the navigation information from the plurality of vehicles is associated with a common road segment; aligning the navigation information within a coordinate system local to the common road segment, wherein the local coordinate system comprises a coordinate system based on a plurality of images captured by image sensors included on the plurality of vehicles; storing the aligned navigational information in association with the common road segment; and distributing the aligned navigational information to one or more autonomous vehicles for use in autonomously navigating the one or more autonomous vehicles along the common road segment.
</claims>
</document>
