<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KENTHAPADI, KRISHNARAM
GEYIK, SAHIN CEM
RAMANATH, ROHAN
OZCAGLAR, CAGRI
GUO, QI
POLATKAN, GUNGOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055172
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING SUPERVISED EMBEDDING REPRESENTATIONS FOR SEARCH
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for generating supervised embedding representations for search are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a computer system receives training data comprising query representations including an entity included in a corresponding search query submitted by a querying user, search result representations for each one of the query representations, and user actions for each one of the query representations, and generates a corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity using a supervised learning algorithm and the received training data. In some example embodiments, the corresponding search result representations for each one of the query representations represents a plurality of candidate users displayed in response to the search queries based on profile data of the candidate users, and the user actions comprise actions by the querying user directed towards at least one candidate user in the search results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system having a memory and at least one hardware processor, training data comprising a plurality of query representations, a plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations, and a plurality of user actions for each one of the plurality of query representations, each one of the plurality of query representations representing at least one entity included in a corresponding search query submitted by a querying user, the corresponding plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations representing a plurality of candidate users displayed in response to the plurality of search queries based on profile data of the plurality of candidate users stored on a database of an online service, the plurality of user actions comprising actions by the querying user directed towards at least one candidate user of the plurality of search results for the corresponding search query; generating, by the computer system, a corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity using a supervised learning algorithm and the received training data; and performing, by the computer system, a function of the online service using the generated embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user actions comprise at least one of selecting to view additional information of the candidate users and sending messages to the candidate users.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the training data further comprises a corresponding reaction indication for each one of the plurality of user actions, each reaction indication indicating whether the candidate user to whom the corresponding user action was directed responded to the corresponding user action with at least one of one or more specified responses.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the user actions comprise sending messages to the candidate users, and the one or more specified responses comprise at least one of accepting the message, viewing the message, and sending a reply message to the querying user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one entity comprises one of a job title, a company, a skill, a school, a degree, and an educational major.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing the function comprises: receiving, from a client computing device, a search query indicating an entity; generating one or more search results for the search query using the generated embedding vectors of the entities, the one or more search results comprising indications of at least one user of the online service; and causing the one or more search results to be displayed on the client computing device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generating the corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity comprises using a neural network.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the supervised learning algorithm comprises a backpropagation algorithm.
9. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving training data comprising a plurality of query representations, a plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations, and a plurality of user actions for each one of the plurality of query representations, each one of the plurality of query representations representing at least one entity included in a corresponding search query submitted by a querying user, the corresponding plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations representing a plurality of candidate users displayed in response to the plurality of search queries based on profile data of the plurality of candidate users stored on a database of an online service, the plurality of user actions comprising actions by the querying user directed towards at least one candidate user of the plurality of search results for the corresponding search query; generating a corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity using a supervised learning algorithm and the received training data; and performing a function of the online service using the generated embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the user actions comprise at least one of selecting to view additional information of the candidate users and sending messages to the candidate users.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the training data further comprises a corresponding reaction indication for each one of the plurality of user actions, each reaction indication indicating whether the candidate user to whom the corresponding user action was directed responded to the corresponding user action with at least one of one or more specified responses.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the user actions comprise sending messages to the candidate users, and the one or more specified responses comprise at least one of accepting the message, viewing the message, and sending a reply message to the querying user.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one entity comprises one of a job title, a company, a skill, a school, a degree, and an educational major.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the performing the function comprises: receiving, from a client computing device, a search query indicating an entity; generating one or more search results for the search query using the generated embedding vectors of the entities, the one or more search results comprising indications of at least one user of the online service; and causing the one or more search results to be displayed on the client computing device.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the generating the corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity comprises using a neural network.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the supervised learning algorithm comprises a backpropagation algorithm.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving training data comprising a plurality of query representations, a plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations, and a plurality of user actions for each one of the plurality of query representations, each one of the plurality of query representations representing at least one entity included in a corresponding search query submitted by a querying user, the corresponding plurality of search result representations for each one of the plurality of query representations representing a plurality of candidate users displayed in response to the plurality of search queries based on profile data of the plurality of candidate users stored on a database of an online service, the plurality of user actions comprising actions by the querying user directed towards at least one candidate user of the plurality of search results for the corresponding search query; generating a corresponding embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity using a supervised learning algorithm and the received training data; and performing a function of the online service using the generated embedding vector for each one of the at least one entity.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the user actions comprise at least one of selecting to view additional information of the candidate users and sending messages to the candidate users.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the training data further comprises a corresponding reaction indication for each one of the plurality of user actions, each reaction indication indicating whether the candidate user to whom the corresponding user action was directed responded to the corresponding user action with at least one of one or more specified responses.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the user actions comprise sending messages to the candidate users, and the one or more specified responses comprise at least one of accepting the message, viewing the message, and sending a reply message to the querying user.
</claims>
</document>
