<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/64,G06T7/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNNE, JONATHAN
FOX, JEREMY R.
ANDERS, KELLEY
LEECH, SONYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229719
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINATION OF HIGH RISK IMAGES USING PEER-BASED REVIEW AND MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer readable media are provided for identifying photos such as selfies in which the individuals in the photo are in imminent danger. One or more profiles are generated, each profile associated with a corresponding first user of a networked system and pertaining to problematic conditions for image capture. An image of a second user is captured via an image capture device. The captured image of the second user is uploaded to the networked system. The captured image of the second user is compared to the generated one or more profiles to determine a score value for the captured image of the second user. A score value may be generated based upon a combination of scores from one or more of geolocation information, metadata analysis, and image processing and machine learning. The upload of the captured image of the second user is rejected in response to the score value satisfying a threshold indicating a presence of problematic conditions during capturing of the image of the second user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory comprising instructions executed by the at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to process an image comprising: generating, via a processor, one or more profiles each associated with a corresponding first user of a networked system and pertaining to problematic conditions for image capture; capturing an image of a second user via an image capture device; uploading, via the processor, the captured image of the second user to the networked system; comparing, via the processor, the captured image of the second user to the generated one or more profiles to determine a score value for the captured image of the second user; and rejecting the upload of the captured image of the second user, via the processor, in response to the score value satisfying a threshold indicating a presence of problematic conditions during capturing of the image of the second user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the networked system includes a social media network.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing feedback to avoid the problematic conditions in response to rejecting the upload of the captured image of the second user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein rejecting the upload of the captured image of the second user further comprises: rejecting the upload of the captured image of the second user in response to the score value being less than a threshold value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a profile associated with a corresponding first user includes one or more from a group of a list of keywords and sample images captured during a presence of problematic conditions.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more profiles further comprises: generating a latent class model to define images captured in the presence of problematic conditions.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the captured image of the second user is a self-image of the second user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more profiles are generated based on crowdsourcing users of the networked system.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating machine learning models based on the one or more profiles, and determining based on the machine learning models the score value for the captured image.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the score value is combined with a geolocation score and a metadata score to generate the score value, wherein upload of the image is rejected or accepted based on the score value.
11. A system for image arbitration comprising at least one processor configured to: generate one or more profiles each associated with a corresponding first user of a networked system and pertaining to problematic conditions for image capture; capture an image of a second user via an image capture device; upload the captured image of the second user to the networked system; compare the captured image of the second user to the generated one or more profiles to determine a score value for the captured image of the second user; and reject the upload of the captured image of the second user in response to the score value satisfying a threshold indicating a presence of problematic conditions during capturing of the image of the second user.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the networked system includes a social media network.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein a profile associated with a corresponding first user includes one or more from a group of a list of keywords and sample images captured during a presence of problematic conditions.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate a latent class model to define images captured in the presence of problematic conditions.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the captured image of the second user is a self-image of the second user.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate machine learning models based on the one or more profiles, and determine based on the machine learning models the score value for the captured image.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the score value is combined with a geolocation score and a metadata score to generate the score value, and wherein upload of the image is rejected or accepted based on the score value.
18. A computer program product for image arbitration, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to: generate one or more profiles each associated with a corresponding first user of a networked system and pertaining to problematic conditions for image capture; capture an image of a second user via an image capture device; upload the captured image of the second user to the networked system; compare the captured image of the second user to the generated one or more profiles to determine a score value for the captured image of the second user; and reject the upload of the captured image of the second user in response to the score value satisfying a threshold indicating a presence of problematic conditions during capturing of the image of the second user.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program instructions are executable to: generate machine learning models based on the one or more profiles, and determine based on the machine learning models the score value for the captured image.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the score value is combined with a geolocation score and a metadata score to generate the score value, and wherein upload of the image is rejected or accepted based on the score value.
</claims>
</document>
