<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/117,G06F40/151,G06F40/169,G06F40/247,G06F40/253,G06F40/30,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMACHANDRAN, PUTHUKODE G.
DEY, KUNTAL
SCOTT, II, WILLIE L.
JOSHI, ANIL U.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66432197
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REAL-TIME ON-DEMAND AUCTION BASED CONTENT CLARIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method replaces original language in a language element with replacement language. A content clarification server receives at least one language element, and launches an auction bidding process for replacing original language in the at least one language element. The content clarification server determines a subject matter expertise of a user who provided the at least one language element, and restricts the auction bidding process to only content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element. The content clarification server receives replacement language for the original language from one of the content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element, such that the replacement language is a winning replacement bid in the auction bidding process. The content clarification server then replaces the original language with the replacement language.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a content clarification server, at least one language element; launching, by the content clarification server, an auction bidding process for replacing original language in the at least one language element; determining, by the content clarification server, a subject matter expertise of a user who provided the at least one language element; restricting, by the content clarification server, the auction bidding process to only content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element; receiving, by the content clarification server, replacement language for the original language from one of the content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element, wherein the replacement language is a winning replacement bid in the auction bidding process; and replacing, by the content clarification server, the original language with the replacement language.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises extracting an entirety of the at least one language element.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises applying natural language processing to the at least one language element to identify the at least one concept and to generate an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept, wherein the abstractive summarization paraphrases the at least one language element by using a fewer number of words than a number of words that are in the at least one language element.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein launching the auction bidding process comprises providing potential bidders in the auction bidding process the at least one language element, the at least one concept, and an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, in response to said launching the auction bidding process by the content clarification server, at least one sponsored alternative to the original language in the at least one language element, wherein the at least one sponsored alternative includes a text alternative to the original language associated with the at least one concept and a monetary bid value for inclusion of advertising content.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, in response to said launching the auction bidding process by the content clarification server, at least one sponsored alternative to the original language in the at least one language element; generating, by the content clarification server, at least one organic alternative to the original language associated with the at least one concept; assigning, by the content clarification server, a default monetary bid value to each of the at least one organic alternative; applying, by the content clarification server, a function to each of the at least one organic alternative based upon one or more factors selected from: (i) compatibility of the at least one organic alternative with the at least one language element, (ii) information value of the at least one organic alternative, (iii) simplicity of the at least one organic alternative, and (iv) monetary bid value; and determining, by the content clarification server, a score for each of the at least one organic alternative based upon output of the function.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the content clarification server, at least one organic alternative to the original language associated with the at least one concept, wherein the at least one organic alternative is based on a profile of a user of the client computer that provided the at least one language element.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving, in response to said launching the auction bidding process by the content clarification server, at least one sponsored alternative to the original language in the at least one language element; and identifying, by the content clarification server, a winning alternative among the at least one sponsored alternative and the at least one organic alternative, wherein the winning alternative is a photograph of an object described by the at least one language element.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving, in response to said launching the auction bidding process by the content clarification server, at least one sponsored alternative to the original language in the at least one language element; and identifying, by the content clarification server, a winning alternative among the at least one sponsored alternative and the at least one organic alternative, wherein the at least one language element is a phrase that describes a device, and wherein the winning alternative is an audio clip of an activity associated with the device.
10. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: receiving at least one language element; launching an auction bidding process for replacing original language in the at least one language element; determining a subject matter expertise of a user who provided the at least one language element; restricting the auction bidding process to only content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element; receiving replacement language for the original language from one of the content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element, wherein the replacement language is a winning replacement bid in the auction bidding process; and replacing the original language with the replacement language.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises extracting an entirety of the at least one language element.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises applying natural language processing to the at least one language element to identify the at least one concept and to generate an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept, wherein the abstractive summarization paraphrases the at least one language element by using a fewer number of words than a number of words that are in the at least one language element.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein launching the auction bidding process comprises providing potential bidders in the auction bidding process the at least one language element, the at least one concept, and an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, in response to said launching the auction bidding process by the content clarification server, at least one sponsored alternative to the original language in the at least one language element, wherein the at least one sponsored alternative includes a text alternative to the original language associated with the at least one concept and a monetary bid value for inclusion of advertising content.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
16. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, and one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable non-transitory storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories, the stored program instructions executed to perform a method comprising: receiving at least one language element; launching an auction bidding process for replacing original language in the at least one language element; determining a subject matter expertise of a user who provided the at least one language element; restricting the auction bidding process to only content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element; receiving replacement language for the original language from one of the content clarification providers who have the subject matter expertise of the user who provided the at least one language element, wherein the replacement language is a winning replacement bid in the auction bidding process; and replacing the original language with the replacement language.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises extracting an entirety of the at least one language element.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein extracting and marking the at least one concept comprises applying natural language processing to the at least one language element to identify the at least one concept and to generate an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept, wherein the abstractive summarization paraphrases the at least one language element by using a fewer number of words than a number of words that are in the at least one language element.
19. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: extracting and marking for clarification, by the content clarification server, at least one concept among the at least one language element, wherein launching the auction bidding process comprises providing potential bidders in the auction bidding process the at least one language element, the at least one concept, and an abstractive summarization associated with the at least one concept.
20. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the program code is provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
