<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOAN HUU, JACQUES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550528
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DECLARATIVE DEBRIEFING FOR PREDICTIVE PIPELINE
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are systems and methods for auto-completing debriefing processing for a machine learning model pipeline based on a type of predictive algorithm. In one example, the method may include one or more of building a machine learning model pipeline via a user interface, detecting, via the user interface, a selection associated with a predictive algorithm included within the machine learning model pipeline, in response to the selection, identifying debriefing components for the predictive algorithm based on a type of the predictive algorithm from among a plurality of types of predictive algorithms, and automatically incorporating processing for the debriefing components within the machine learning model pipeline such that values of the debriefing components are generated during training of the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a storage configured to store debriefing components; and a processor configured to build a machine learning model pipeline via a user interface, detect, via the user interface, a selection associated with a predictive algorithm included within the machine learning model pipeline, in response to the selection, identify debriefing components for the predictive algorithm based on a type of the predictive algorithm from among a plurality of types of predictive algorithms, and automatically incorporate processing for the debriefing components within the machine learning model pipeline such that values of the debriefing components are generated during training of the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model pipeline comprises a plurality of nodes linked together to form a data flow which includes a training data set node and a node for the predictive algorithm.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein different debriefing components among the stored debriefing components are identified for each type of predictive algorithm from among the plurality of types of predictive algorithms.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of types of predictive algorithms include a regression type, a classification type, and a clustering type.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the debriefing components are dynamically identified from the stored debriefing components based on declarations within metadata associated with the predictive algorithm.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the debriefing components comprise one or more of graphs, key performance indicators (KPIs), and variable information of the predictive algorithm with respect to a prediction performed by the predictive algorithm.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to automatically delegate processing nodes for generating the debriefing components during execution of the machine learning model pipeline.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to generate values for the debriefing components based on a training data set and the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline in response to an execution request being received via the user interface, and output a display of the values of the debriefing components via the user interface.
9. A method comprising: building a machine learning model pipeline via a user interface; detecting, via the user interface, a selection associated with a predictive algorithm included within the machine learning model pipeline; in response to the selection, identifying debriefing components for the predictive algorithm based on a type of the predictive algorithm from among a plurality of types of predictive algorithms; and automatically incorporating processing for the debriefing components within the machine learning model pipeline such that values of the debriefing components are generated during training of the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the machine learning model pipeline comprises a plurality of nodes linked together to form a data flow which includes a training data set node and a node for the predictive algorithm.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein different debriefing components are identified for each type of predictive algorithm from among the plurality of types of predictive algorithms.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of types of predictive algorithms include a regression type, a classification type, and a clustering type.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the debriefing components are dynamically identified based on declarations within metadata associated with the predictive algorithm.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the debriefing components comprise one or more of graphs, key performance indicators (KPIs), and variable information of the predictive algorithm with respect to a prediction performed by the predictive algorithm.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the automatically incorporating comprises delegating processing nodes for generating the debriefing components during execution of the machine learning model pipeline.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating values for the debriefing components based on a training data set and the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline in response to an execution request being received via the user interface, and outputting a display of the values of the debriefing components via the user interface.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing program instructions which when executed are configured to cause a computer to perform a method comprising: building a machine learning model pipeline via a user interface; detecting, via the user interface, a selection associated with a predictive algorithm included within the machine learning model pipeline; in response to the selection, identifying debriefing components for the predictive algorithm based on a type of the predictive algorithm from among a plurality of types of predictive algorithms; and automatically incorporating processing for the debriefing components within the machine learning model pipeline such that values of the debriefing components are generated during training of the predictive algorithm within the machine learning model pipeline.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the machine learning model pipeline comprises a plurality of nodes linked together to form a data flow which includes a training data set node and a node for the predictive algorithm.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein different debriefing components are identified for each type of predictive algorithm from among the plurality of types of predictive algorithms.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the plurality of types of predictive algorithms include a regression type, a classification type, and a clustering type.
</claims>
</document>
