<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/36,G06K9/46,G06K9/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARIGA, NORIMASA
NOBUOKA, TETSUYA
YASUNAGA, MASAAKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69804457
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMODITY RECOGNITION DEVICE AND COMMODITY RECOGNITION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a commodity recognition device includes a first interface, a second interface, and a processor. The first interface acquires an image captured by a camera for which a region including a mounting surface on which a commodity to be recognized is mounted is set to be an imaging region. The second interface outputs an image for display to a display device that displays an image on the mounting surface. The processor generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface on the basis of a first image captured by the camera and acquired by the first interface, acquires a second image captured by the camera using the first interface in a state where the background image to be output as the image for display from the second interface is displayed on the mounting surface by the display device, and specifies a region of a commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the second image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A commodity recognition device, comprising: a first interface which acquires an image captured by a camera for which a region including a mounting surface on which a commodity to be recognized is mounted is set to be an imaging region; a second interface which outputs an image for display to a display that displays an image on the mounting surface; and a processor which generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface on the basis of a first image captured by the camera and acquired by the first interface, acquires a second image captured by the camera using the first interface in a state where the background image to be output as the image for display from the second interface is displayed on the mounting surface by the display, and specifies a region of a commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the second image.
2. The device according to claim 1, wherein the processor further searches for a color distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using the color.
3. The device according to claim 1, wherein the processor further divides the first image into a plurality of regions, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using a color selected for each of the regions obtained by the division.
4. The device according to claim 1, wherein the processor further determines a pattern distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using the pattern.
5. The device according to claim 1, wherein the processor searches for a pixel value indicating a color which is not present in the image from the first image.
6. The device according to claim 1, wherein the camera is positioned above the mounting surface.
7. The device according to claim 1, further comprising: a detector which detects that the commodity is present or absent on the mounting surface.
8. A commodity recognition method, comprising: acquiring a first image captured by a camera for which a region including a mounting surface on which a commodity to be recognized is mounted is set to be an imaging region; generating a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface on the basis of the first image captured by the camera; displaying the background image on the mounting surface; acquiring a second image captured by the camera in a state where the background image is displayed on the mounting surface; and specifying a region of a commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the second image.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: searching for a color distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generating a background image for display on the mounting surface using the color.
10. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: dividing the first image into a plurality of regions, and generating a background image for display on the mounting surface using a color selected for each of the regions obtained by the division.
11. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: determining a pattern distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generating a background image for display on the mounting surface using the pattern.
12. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: searching for a pixel value indicating a color which is not present in the image from the first image.
13. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: detecting the presence or absence of the commodity on the mounting surface.
14. A self-checkout machine, comprising: a settlement processing component; a first interface which acquires an image captured by a camera for which a region including a mounting surface on which a commodity to be recognized is mounted is set to be an imaging region; a second interface which outputs an image for display to a display that displays an image on the mounting surface; and a processor which generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface on the basis of a first image captured by the camera and acquired by the first interface, acquires a second image captured by the camera using the first interface in a state where the background image to be output as the image for display from the second interface is displayed on the mounting surface by the display, and specifies a region of a commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the second image.
15. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, wherein the processor further searches for a color distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using the color.
16. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, wherein the processor further divides the first image into a plurality of regions, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using a color selected for each of the regions obtained by the division.
17. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, wherein the processor further determines a pattern distinguishable from the commodity mounted on the mounting surface from the first image, and generates a background image to be displayed on the mounting surface using the pattern.
18. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, wherein the processor searches for a pixel value indicating a color which is not present in the image from the first image.
19. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, wherein the camera is positioned above the mounting surface.
20. The self-checkout machine according to claim 14, further comprising: a detector which detects that the commodity is present or absent on the mounting surface.
</claims>
</document>
