<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2453,G06F16/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TERADATA US
</assignee>

<inventors>
AU, GRACE KWAN-ON
AL-KATEB, MOHAMMED
NAIR, SANJAY
ELTABAKH, MOHAMED YASSIN
TANG, CONRAD KWOK-WAI
PRAKASH, CHANDANA
TIRUMALA, SREYAS SRIMATH
BEGUM, NURJAHAN
AWADA, KASSEM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZATION OF DATABASE QUERIES WITH MULTIPLE HETEROGENEOUS DATABASE SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Multiple cost models (e.g., a sub-operations costing model and logical-operations costing model) can be used to make cost estimations of execution of database queries in one and each one of the multiple heterogeneous database systems. As a result, a "hybrid" cost estimating mode can be used whereby two or more cost models can be used in a single database system in to order maximize the advantages and minimize the disadvantages of each of the cost models, thereby striving to achieve an optimal balance. In addition, cost estimation can be switched between a hybrid cost estimating mode and a single cost estimating mode. The switch can, for example, be made as a part of tuning phase, as more information about actual costs of execution of database queries becomes more available, or as a result of changes to the database system and/or it operations, and so on. As a result, a flexible cost estimating mechanism can also be provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: memory; and one or more processors configured to: access the memory; determine whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems; use only one the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems; use at least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining determines not to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the using the least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the at least part of the one or more database queries further comprises: using a first cost model to estimate the cost of a first one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems; and using a second cost model to estimate the cost of a second one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems, wherein the first one of multiple database operations is different from the second one of multiple database operations.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the using the least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the at least part of the one or more database queries further comprises: using at least a first cost model and a second cost model of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution a first one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems to determine at least first and second cost estimates for the first one of multiple database operations determined respectively by using the first and second cost models.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the determining of the first and second cost estimates for the first one of multiple database operations further comprises: using a different physical operators or implementations of the first one of the multiple database operations for each one of the first and second cost models.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining of whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems is made at least based on one or more of the followings: whether the first one of the multiple database systems is an open or closed system, whether the first one of the multiple database systems is more of an open than a closed system, a determined or pre-determined desired time for obtaining cost estimations of the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries, and availability of cost information needed to initiate estimating the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine whether to switch between a single cost estimation mode and a hybrid cost estimation mode, wherein in the single cost estimation mode, only one of the multiple cost models is used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries, and wherein in the hybrid cost estimation mode, at least two of the multiple cost models are used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: obtain a cost profile; and use the cost profile to make the determining of whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: initiate a training phase to calculate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems by at least providing one more scripts to be executed remotely by the first one of multiple database systems.
9. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: initiate a tuning phase to determine whether to change the cost profile by at least comparing the calculated cost of the execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by the first one of multiple database systems with actual cost of the execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by the first one of multiple database systems.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the multiple cost models include a logical-operation costing model and sub-operation costing model.
11. A computer-implemented method of estimating cost of execution of one or more database queries in a database environment that includes multiple database systems, the computer-implemented method comprising: determining whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems; using only one the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems; using at least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining determines not to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the using the least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the at least part of the one or more database queries further comprises: using a first cost model to estimate the cost of a first one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems; and using a second cost model to estimate the cost of a second one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems, wherein the first one of multiple database operations is different from the second one of multiple database operations.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the using the least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the at least part of the one or more database queries further comprises: using at least a first cost model and a second cost model of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution a first one of multiple database operations defined for the first one of the multiple database systems to determine at least first and second cost estimates for the first one of multiple database operations determined respectively by using the first and second cost models.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the determining of the first and second cost estimates for the first one of multiple database operations further comprises: using a different physical operators or implementations of the first one of the multiple database operations for each one of the first and second cost models.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the computer implemented method further comprises: determining whether to switch between a single cost estimation mode and a hybrid cost estimation mode, wherein in the single cost estimation mode, only one of the multiple cost models is used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries, and wherein in the hybrid cost estimation mode, at least two of the multiple cost models are used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the computer implemented method further comprises: obtaining a cost profile; and using the cost profile to make the determining of whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the computer implemented method further comprises: initiating a training phase to calculate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems by at least providing one more scripts to be executed remotely by the first one of multiple database systems.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the determining of whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems is made at least based on one or more of the followings: whether the first one of the multiple database systems is an open or closed system, whether the first one of the multiple database systems is more of an open than a closed system, a determined or a pre-determined desired time for obtaining cost estimations of the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries, and availability of cost information needed to initiate estimating the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing at least executable computer code the when executed estimates the cost of execution of one or more database queries in a database environment that includes multiple database systems, wherein the executable computer code includes: executable computer code to determine whether to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of one or more database queries by a first one of multiple database systems; executable computer code to use only one the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems; executable computer code to use at least two of the multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries when the determining determines not to use only one of multiple cost models to estimate the cost of execution of the one or more database queries by a first one of the multiple database systems.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the executable computer code further includes: executable computer code to determine whether to switch between a single cost estimation mode and a hybrid cost estimation mode, wherein in the single cost estimation mode, only one of the multiple cost models is used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries, and wherein in the hybrid cost estimation mode, at least two of the multiple cost models are used to estimate the cost of execution of at least a part of the one or more database queries.
</claims>
</document>
