<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T7/20,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATRA, TANMAY
MEIER, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641435
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMI-SUPERVISED LEARNING USING CLUSTERING AS AN ADDITIONAL CONSTRAINT
</title>

<abstract>
In some implementations a neural network is trained to perform a main task using a clustering constraint, for example, using both a main task training loss and a clustering training loss. Training inputs are inputted into a main task neural network to produce output labels predicting locations of the parts of the objects in the training inputs. Data from pooled layers of the main task neural network is inputted into a clustering neural network. The main task neural network and the clustering neural network are trained based on a main task loss from the main task neural network and a clustering loss from the clustering neural network. The main task loss is determined by comparing differences between the output labels and the training labels. The clustering loss encourages the clustering network to learn to label the parts of the objects individually, e.g., to learn groups corresponding to the object parts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: at an electronic device with one or more processors: obtaining a training set of training inputs and corresponding training labels, the training labels identifying known locations of parts of objects in the training inputs; inputting the training inputs into a main task neural network to produce output labels predicting locations of the parts of the objects in the training inputs; inputting data from pooled layers of the main task neural network into a clustering neural network; and training the main task neural network and the clustering neural network based on a main task loss from the main task neural network and a clustering loss from the clustering neural network.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: inputting additional inputs into the main task neural network to produce additional output labels and corresponding confidence values; selecting, based on the confidence values, an automatically-labeled training set of data comprising a subset of the additional inputs and a corresponding subset of the additional output labels; and further training the main task neural network and the clustering neural network using the automatically-labeled training set of data.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining the main task loss by comparing the output labels and the training labels.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising determining the main task loss using learned quality assurance metrics.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the clustering loss is configured to cause the clustering neural network to learn to label the parts of the objects individually.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering loss is configured to cause the clustering neural network to learn groups corresponding to the parts of the objects.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering neural network is trained to identify a first group of the layers corresponding to a first pattern and a second group of the layers corresponding to a second pattern.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network and the clustering neural network are trained together using the main task loss and the clustering loss to cause clusters learnt by the clustering neural network correspond to the parts.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network and the clustering neural network are trained together using the main task loss and the clustering loss to cause similarity between sub-parts of feature maps across multiple images.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the groups learned by the clustering neural network correspond to human body parts.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of groups learned by the clustering neural network corresponds to a number of the parts of the objects.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network is trained for human pose estimation, wherein the parts of the objects correspond to parts of a skeleton representing human pose.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network is trained for hand tracking, body tracking, or gaze tracking.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network is trained for semantic segmentation of audio.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the main task neural network is trained for semantic segmentation of text.
16. The method of claim 1 further comprising integrating the main task neural network into an application stored on a non-transitory computer-readable medium.
17. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium; and one or more processors coupled to the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprises program instructions that, when executed on the one or more processors, cause the system to perform operations comprising: obtaining a training set of training inputs and corresponding training labels, the training labels identifying known locations of parts of objects in the training inputs; inputting the training inputs into a main task neural network to produce output labels predicting locations of the parts of the objects in the training inputs; inputting data from pooled layers of the main task neural network into a clustering neural network; and training the main task neural network and the clustering neural network based on a main task loss from the main task neural network and a clustering loss from the clustering neural network.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: inputting additional inputs into the main task neural network to produce additional output labels and corresponding confidence values; selecting, based on the confidence values, an automatically-labeled training set of data comprising a subset of the additional inputs and a corresponding subset of the additional output labels; and further training the main task neural network and the clustering neural network using the automatically-labeled training set of data.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise determining the main task loss by comparing the output labels and the training labels.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing program instructions computer-executable on a computer to perform operations comprising: obtaining a training set of training inputs and corresponding training labels, the training labels identifying known locations of parts of objects in the training inputs; inputting the training inputs into a main task neural network to produce output labels predicting locations of the parts of the objects in the training inputs; inputting data from pooled layers of the main task neural network into a clustering neural network; and training the main task neural network and the clustering neural network based on a main task loss from the main task neural network and a clustering loss from the clustering neural network.
</claims>
</document>
