<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Foundry College, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Davis, Michael Laurence
Kosslyn, Stephen M.
Williams, Scott Lane
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72513671
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ONLINE CLASSROOM SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING STUDENT ACTIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for online classroom instruction are described that facilitate the learning and application of course information in an active and synchronous learning environment. The system monitors the activity of the students in each breakout group, and the teacher is provided with a graphical indication, for each breakout group, of the amount of activity. The teacher may also use the graphical interface to either view a particular breakout group, or become n active member of a particular breakout group. The teacher may also move students from one breakout group to another.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of monitoring a plurality of breakout groups of an active-learning class using a plurality of electronic devices in a computer network, where the plurality of electronic devices includes a first electronic device operated by an instructor, a plurality of second electronic devices each operated by a student of a plurality of students, and one or more servers, where each breakout group of the plurality of breakout groups includes a plurality of students, and where the monitoring is performed by the instructor, said method comprising: for each breakout group (BOG) of the plurality of BOGs, determining a BOG activity level over the computer network from the activity of each student's electronic device during the BOG, where the determining determines using one or more electronic devices of the plurality of electronic devices; and presenting on a display of the first electronic device a graphical representation of BOG activity level for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs.
2. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is determined from interactions between students of each BOG or from interactions with the shared BOG workspace.
3. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is a measure of the amount of communication between the plurality of students of the BOGs.
4. The method of claim 3, where the communication is by talking as determined from the each electronic device's microphone or by texting between electronic devices.
5. The method of claim 3, where the BOG activity level is the amount of talking by the most talkative member of the BOG divided by the average amount of the talking by all of the other members of the BOG.
6. The method of claim 3, where the BOG activity level is a measure of the amount of cursor activity in a shared document.
7. The method of claim 6, where the measure is an amount of cursor activity in a shared document by a most active member of the BOG divided by an average amount of cursor activity by the other members of the BOG.
8. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is determined from the use of group chat.
9. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is determined from answers to quizzes by students of the BOG.
10. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is determined from how many times students of the BOG have asked questions in class.
11. The method of claim 1, where the BOG activity level is determined from the the variance in talking between students of the BOG.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: forming a one-to-one map between BOG activity level and a color, where the graphical representation includes equally sized geometric shapes for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs, and where the geometric shape for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs is coded with the color as mapped from the BOG activity level.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising labeling each graphical representation with the name of the corresponding BOG or the name of at least one student of the corresponding BOG.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising, accepting a selection on the instructor's electronic device of one BOG of the plurality of BOGs, and providing, on the instructor's electronic device, a view of the BOG.
15. The method of claim 1, where the instructor's electronic device is operable to move a student from one BOG to another BOG.
16. The method of claim 1, where the instructor's electronic device is operable for selecting a BOG of the plurality of BOGs and automatically visit a selected BOG.
17. An apparatus for monitoring a plurality of breakout groups (BOGs) of an active-learning class using a plurality of electronic devices in a computer network, where the plurality of electronic devices includes a first electronic device operated by an instructor, a plurality of second electronic devices each operated by a student of a plurality of students, and one or more servers, where each BOG of the plurality of BOGs includes a plurality of students, and where the monitoring is performed by the instructor, said apparatus comprising: one or more processors of at least one electronic device of the plurality of electronic devices programmed to for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs, determine a BOG activity level over the computer network from the activity of each student's electronic device during the BOG, and present on a display of the first electronic device a graphical representation of BOG activity level for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is determined from interactions between students of each BOG or from interactions with the shared BOG workspace.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is a measure of the amount of communication between the plurality of students of the BOGs.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, where the communication is by talking as determined from the each electronic device's microphone or by texting between electronic devices.
21. The apparatus of claim 19, where the BOG activity level is the amount of talking by the most talkative member of the BOG divided by the average amount of the talking by all of the other members of the BOG.
22. The apparatus of claim 19, where the BOG activity level is a measure of the amount of cursor activity in a shared document.
23. The apparatus of claim 22, where the measure is an amount of cursor activity in a shared document by a most active member of the BOG divided by an average amount of cursor activity by the other members of the BOG.
24. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is determined from the use of group chat.
25. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is determined from answers to quizzes by students of the BOG.
26. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is determined from how many times students of the BOG have asked questions in class.
27. The apparatus of claim 17, where the BOG activity level is determined from the variance in talking between students of the BOG.
28. The apparatus of claim 17, where said one or more processors are further programmed to: form a one-to-one map between BOG activity level and a color, where the graphical representation includes equally sized geometric shapes for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs, and where the geometric shape for each BOG of the plurality of BOGs is coded with the color as mapped from the BOG activity level.
29. The apparatus of claim 28, where said one or more processors are further programmed to: label each graphical representation with the name of the corresponding BOG or the name of at least one student of the corresponding BOG.
30. The apparatus of claim 17, where said one or more processors are further programmed to: accept a selection on the instructor's electronic device of one BOG of the plurality of BOGs, and provide, on the instructor's electronic device, a view of the BOG.
31. The apparatus of claim 17, where the instructor's electronic device is operable to move a student from one BOG to another BOG.
32. The apparatus of claim 17, where the instructor's electronic device is operable for selecting a BOG of the plurality of BOGs and automatically visit a selected BOG.
</claims>
</document>
