<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTAYE, YOHANNES
DANILOV, MIKHAIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610001
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REPLICATION OF DATA IN A GEOGRAPHICALLY DISTRIBUTED STORAGE ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein, system that facilitates replication of data in a geographically distributed storage environment. According to an embodiment, a system can comprise storing a first data chunk at a first site of a first region in a geographically diverse data storage system, determining a second region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a first copy of the first data chunk, wherein the first copy is stored at a second site located within the second region, and determining a third region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a second copy of the first data chunk, wherein the second copy is stored at a third site located within the third region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: storing a first data chunk at a first site of a first region in a geographically diverse data storage system; determining a second region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a first copy of the first data chunk, wherein the first copy is stored at a second site located within the second region; and determining a third region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a second copy of the first data chunk, wherein the second copy is stored at a third site located within the third region.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a primary region and a primary site that will serve as a read request for the first data chunk in response to failure of the first site.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a primary region and a primary site that will serve as a read request for the first data chunk in response to failure of the first region.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: protecting the first data chunk using a chunk protection operation, wherein a first device at the first site selects the chunk protection operation; and protecting the first copy of the first data chunk using the chunk protection operation, wherein a second device at the second site selects the chunk protection operation.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the second region comprises employing a region selection operation by a device at the first site.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the second region comprises determining at least one site at which to store the first copy of the first data chunk, and wherein a device at the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the second site for the storage of the first copy of the first data chunk.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the third region comprises determining at least one site at which to store the second copy of the first data chunk, and wherein a device at the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the third site for the storage of the second copy of the first data chunk.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: designating the second site as a primary recovery site to recover the first data chunk in an event of failure of the first site; and in response to failure of the first site, initiating a recovery operation by a device of the primary recovery site to recover the first data chunk.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: initiating a recovery operation by a device of the first site to recover the first copy of the first data chunk stored at the second site in response to determining a first failure of the second site has occurred; and initiating the recovery operation by the device of the first site to recover the second copy of the first data chunk stored at the third site in response to determining a second failure of the third site has occurred.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: designating the third site as a primary recovery site to recover the first data chunk in an event of a failure of the first region; and in response to the failure of the first region, initiating a recovery operation by the primary recovery site to recover the first data chunk.
11. A method, comprising: storing, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, a first data chunk at a first site of a first region in a geographically diverse data storage system; determining, by the system, a second region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a first copy of the first data chunk, wherein the first copy is stored at a second site located within the second region and the first copy is protected by the second site; and determining, by the system, a third region in the geographically diverse data storage system for storage of a second copy of the first data chunk, wherein the second copy is stored at a third site located within the third region and the second copy is protected by the third site.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the system, a primary region based on geographical location and a primary site that will serve a read request for the first data chunk in response to receiving the read request.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the system, a primary region and a primary site within the primary region that will serve as a read request for the first data chunk in response to receiving the read request and failure of the first site.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the second region comprises determining at least one site to store the first copy of the first data chunk, and wherein the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the second site for the storage of the first copy of the first data chunk.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the third region comprises determining at least one site to store the second copy of the first data chunk, and wherein the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the third site for the storage of the second copy of the first data chunk.
16. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: storing a first data chunk at a first site of a first region in a geographically diverse data storage system; determining a second region for storing a first copy of the first data chunk, wherein the first copy is stored at a second site located within the second region and the first copy is protected by the second site; and determining a third region for storing a second copy of the first data chunk, wherein the second copy is stored at a third site located within the third region.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a primary region and a primary site within the primary region that will serve as a read request for the first data chunk in response to failure of the first site; initiating a recovery operation by the first site to recover the first copy of the first data chunk stored at the second site in response to determining failure of the second site; and initiating the recovery operation by the first site to recover the second copy of the first data chunk stored at the third site in response to determining failure of the third site.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: protecting the first copy of the first data chunk using a chunk protection operation, wherein the second site selects the chunk protection operation.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the second region comprises employing a region selection operation by the first site and determining at least one site to store the first copy of the first data chunk, and wherein the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the second site for storing the first copy of the first data chunk.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the third region comprises determining at least one site to store the second copy of the first data chunk, and wherein the first site employs a site selection operation to determine the third site for storing the second copy of the first data chunk.
</claims>
</document>
