<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLONNA, CHRISTOPHER
HIGGS, RAYMOND M.
HOPKINS, LUKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70279540
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AVOIDING BAD INPUT DURING USER INTERFACE LAYOUT CHANGES USING SNAPSHOTS
</title>

<abstract>
According to one or more embodiments of the present invention, a computer-implemented method includes receiving a request to update a layout of a user interface being rendered. The method further includes receiving a user input for an element of the user interface. The method further includes determining whether the user input is received within a predetermined duration since receiving the request to update the layout. The method further includes, based on a determination that the user input is received after completion of the predetermined duration, accepting the user input. The method further includes, based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration, rejecting the user input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a request to update a present layout of a user interface of an application being rendered; receiving a user input for an element of the user interface; determining whether the user input is received within a predetermined duration since receiving the request to update the layout; based on a determination that the user input is received after completion of the predetermined duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for an updated layout of the user interface; and based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration:, rejecting the user input based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a second duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the second duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said application, and wherein the second duration is determined by the application using a machine learning algorithm, rejecting, by the application, the user input; and based on the determination that user input is received after the second duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein accepting the user input comprises performing one or more operations according to a script of the element in response to the user input.
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. (canceled)
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 41, further comprising, storing a snapshot of the present layout prior to updating the present layout, wherein storing the snapshot of the present layout of the user interface comprises storing positions of one or more elements of the user interface.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 41, wherein if the user input is received after the second duration, confirming with a user if the user input is intended for the present layout, and accepting the user input for the present layout in response to a confirmation from the user.
8. A system comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled with the memory, the processor configured to render one or more user interfaces, wherein rendering the user interfaces comprises performing a method that comprises: receiving a request to update a present layout of a user interface of an application being rendered; receiving a user input for an element of the user interface; determining whether the user input is received within a predetermined duration since receiving the request to update the layout; based on a determination that the user input is received after completion of the predetermined duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for an updated layout of the user interface; and based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration, rejecting the user input: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a second duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the second duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said application, and wherein the second duration is determined by the application using a machine learning algorithm, rejecting, by the application, the user input; and based on the determination that user input is received after the second duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein accepting the user input comprises performing one or more operations according to a script of the element in response to the user input.
10. (canceled)
11. (canceled)
12. (canceled)
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises storing a snapshot of the present layout prior to updating the present layout, and wherein storing the snapshot of the present layout of the user interface comprises storing positions of one or more elements of the user interface.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein if the user input is received after the second duration, confirming with a user if the user input is intended for the present layout, and accepting the user input for the present layout in response to a confirmation from the user.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon program instructions executable by one or more processing devices to perform a method comprising: receiving a request to update a present layout of a user interface of an application being rendered; receiving a user input for an element of the user interface; determining whether the user input is received within a predetermined duration since receiving the request to update the layout; based on a determination that the user input is received after completion of the predetermined duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for an updated layout of the user interface; and based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a second duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the second duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said application, and wherein the second duration is determined by the application using a machine learning algorithm, rejecting, by the application, the user input; and based on the determination that user input is received after the second duration, accepting, by the application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein accepting the user input comprises performing one or more operations according to a script of the element in response to the user input.
17. (canceled)
18. (canceled)
19. (canceled)
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises storing a snapshot of the present layout prior to updating the present layout, and wherein storing the snapshot of the layout of the user interface comprises storing positions of one or more elements of the user interface.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the application is a first application, and the method further comprises: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a third duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the third duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said second application, and wherein the second duration is determined by said second application using the machine learning algorithm, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface; and based on the determination that user input is received after the third duration, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the updated layout of the user interface.
22. The system of claim 8, wherein the application is a first application, and the method further comprises: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a third duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the third duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said second application, and wherein the second duration is determined by said second application using the machine learning algorithm, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface; and based on the determination that user input is received after the third duration, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the updated layout of the user interface.
23. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the application is a first application, and the method further comprises: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to completion of the predetermined duration: based on a determination that the user input is received prior to a third duration since receiving the request to update the layout, wherein the third duration represents a historical reaction time of a user interacting with said second application, and wherein the second duration is determined by said second application using the machine learning algorithm, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the present layout of the user interface; and based on the determination that user input is received after the third duration, accepting, by the second application, the user input for the updated layout of the user interface.
</claims>
</document>
