<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T11/00,G06T7/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACTIVISION PUBLISHING
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAN, PAUL D.
VORACHART, THITIKUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62244034
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems to Modify a Two Dimensional Facial Image to Increase Dimensional Depth and Generate a Facial Image That Appears Three Dimensional
</title>

<abstract>
The specification describes methods and systems for increasing a dimensional depth of a two-dimensional image of a face to yield a face image that appears three dimensional. The methods and systems identify key points on the 2-D image, obtain a texture map for the 2-D image, determines one or more proportions within the 2-D image, and adjusts the texture map of the 3-D model based on the determined one or more proportions within the 2-D image.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for increasing a dimensional depth of a two-dimensional image of a face to yield a face image that appears three dimensional, said method being implemented in a computer having a processor and a random access memory, wherein said processor is in data communication with a display and with a storage unit, the method comprising: acquiring from the storage unit the two-dimensional image of the face; acquiring from the storage unit a three-dimensional mesh image; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, identifying a plurality of key points on the two-dimensional image of the face; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, generating a texture map of the two-dimensional image of the face; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, projecting said texture map of the two-dimensional image of the face onto the three-dimensional mesh image; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, determining a first set of one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image of the face; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, determining a second set of one or more proportions within the three-dimensional mesh image; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, determining a plurality of scaling factors, wherein each of said scaling factors is a function of one of said first set of one or more proportions and a corresponding one of said second set of one or more proportions; using said computer and executing a plurality of programmatic instructions stored in the storage unit, adjusting the three-dimensional mesh image based on the determined plurality of scaling factors to yield the face image that appears three dimensional; and using said computer, outputting the face image that appears three dimensional.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the key points include points representative of a plurality of anatomical locations on the face, wherein said anatomical locations include points located on the eyebrows, eyes, nose, and lips.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the texture map comprises a plurality of non-overlapping, triangular regions.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of said plurality of scaling factors is a ratio of one of said first set of one or more proportions to the corresponding one of said second set of one or more proportions.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining the first set of one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image comprises determining proportions from measurements between at least two anatomical positions on the face.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining a first set of one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image comprises determining a first anatomical distance and dividing said first anatomical distance by a second anatomical distance.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the first anatomical distance is at least one of a lateral face width, a lateral jaw width, a lateral temple width, a lateral eyebrow width, a lateral chin width, a lateral lip width, and a lateral nose width and wherein the second anatomical distance is a distance between two temples of the face.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the first anatomical distance is at least one of a vertically defined lip thickness, a vertical distance between a nose and a nose bridge, a vertical distance between a lip and a nose bridge, a vertical distance between a chin and a nose bridge, a vertical eye length, and a vertical distance between a jaw and a nose bridge and wherein the second anatomical distance is at least one of a distance between two anatomical positions on said face and a distance between two temples of the face.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the first anatomical distance is a distance between two anatomical positions on said face and the second anatomical distance is a distance between a point located proximate a left edge of a left eyebrow of the face and a point located proximate a right edge of a right eyebrow of the face.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining a second set of one or more proportions within the three-dimensional mesh image comprises determining a first anatomical distance and dividing said first anatomical distance by a second anatomical distance.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the first anatomical distance is at least one of a lip thickness, a distance between a nose and a nose bridge, a distance between a lip and a nose bridge, a distance between a chin and a nose bridge, an eye length, and a distance between a jaw and a nose bridge of the three-dimensional mesh image and wherein the second anatomical distance is a distance between two anatomical positions on said three-dimensional mesh image.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the first anatomical distance is a distance between two anatomical positions on said three-dimensional mesh image and the second anatomical distance is a distance between a point located proximate a left edge of a left eyebrow of the three-dimensional mesh image and a point located proximate a right edge of a right eyebrow of the three-dimensional mesh image.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein, prior to identifying the plurality of key points on the two-dimensional image of the face, processing the two-dimensional image to validate a presence of a frontal image of the face.
14. A computer readable non-transitory medium comprising a plurality of executable programmatic instructions wherein, when said plurality of executable programmatic instructions are executed by a processor, a process for increasing a dimensional depth of a two-dimensional image of a face to yield a face image that appears three dimensional is performed, said plurality of executable programmatic instructions comprising: programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for acquiring from the storage unit the two-dimensional image of the face; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for acquiring from the storage unit a three-dimensional mesh image; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for identifying a plurality of key points on the two-dimensional image of the face; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for generating a texture map of the two-dimensional image of the face; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for translating said texture map of the two-dimensional image of the face onto the three-dimensional mesh image; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for determining a first set of one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image of the face; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for determining a second set of one or more proportions within the three-dimensional mesh image; programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for determining a plurality of scaling factors, wherein each of said scaling factors is a function of one of said first set of one or more proportions and a corresponding one of said second set of one or more proportions; and programmatic instructions, stored in said computer readable non-transitory medium, for adjusting the three-dimensional mesh image based on the determined plurality of scaling factors to yield the face image that appears three dimensional.
15. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 14, wherein the key points include points representative of a plurality of anatomical locations on the face, wherein said anatomical locations include points located on the eyebrows, eyes, nose, and lips.
16. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 14, wherein the texture map comprises a plurality of non-overlapping, triangular regions.
17. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 14, wherein the determining one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image comprises determining proportions from measurements between at least two anatomical positions on the face.
18. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 14, wherein each of said plurality of scaling factors is a ratio of one of said first set of one or more proportions to the corresponding one of said second set of one or more proportions.
19. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 14, wherein the determining a first set of one or more proportions within the two-dimensional image comprises determining a first anatomical distance and dividing said first anatomical distance by a second anatomical distance.
20. The computer readable non-transitory medium of claim 19, wherein the first anatomical distance is at least one of a lateral face width, a lateral jaw width, a lateral temple width, a lateral eyebrow width, a lateral chin width, a lateral lip width, and a lateral nose width and wherein the second anatomical distance is a distance between two temples of the face.
</claims>
</document>
