<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/12,G06N3/08,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Ever Fortune.AI CO., Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, TZUNG-CHI
LIAO, KEN YING-KAI
TSAI, FUU-JEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67874323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOUD-BASED TRANSACTION SYSTEM AND METHOD CAPABLE OF PROVIDING NEURAL NETWORK TRAINING MODEL IN SUPERVISED STATE
</title>

<abstract>
A cloud-based transaction system and method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state perform training with different training programs on a plurality of pieces of data and thus obtain different training models to not only allow a client to conduct transactions on a third-party transaction platform from a remote end but also allow the client to download the different training models according to transaction results under the supervision of a supervision unit to allow the client to compare the accuracy of the different training models, thereby enhancing the accuracy of the training models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state, comprising: a storage unit for storing a plurality of pieces of data, a pre-training model resulting from training a predetermined neural network on the plurality of pieces of data, at least one first training program for the neural network, and at least one post-training model resulting from training with the at least one first training program on the plurality of pieces of data, wherein accuracy of the at least one post-training model is not equal to accuracy of the pre-training model; a supervision unit connected to the storage unit; a trade port connected to the supervision unit and enabling the supervision unit to be connected to an external third-party transaction platform; and a login port connected to the supervision unit and enabling a client to be connected via a cloud network, wherein the supervision unit receives a transaction information via the trade port and permits a specific client to download, in accordance with the transaction information, at least one of the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model from the storage unit via the login port.
2. The cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 1, wherein the storage unit, the supervision unit, the trade port and the login port are integrated into a cloud server.
3. The cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 1, wherein the cloud server has at least one physical computer server.
4. The cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 2, wherein the client uploads a second training program for a neural network via the login port, the supervision unit permits the second training program to be stored in the storage unit, and the cloud server carries out training with the second training program on the plurality of pieces of data to create an improvement training model and store the improvement training model in the storage unit.
5. The cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 4, wherein, in absence of the transaction information, the supervision unit only permits the client to download, from the storage unit via the login port, the improvement training model which results from training carried out with the second training program.
6. The cloud-based transaction system capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 1, further comprising a service control interface operable by the client via the login port when the client is connected to the login port, wherein the service control interface offers the client purchase options, namely the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model, to select from, and the service control interface provides a link to the third-party transaction platform.
7. A cloud-based transaction method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state, using the system of claim 1, comprising steps of: connecting a client to the login port via a cloud network; selecting, by the client, at least one of the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model, to purchase; paying, by the client, a fee of at least one of the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model to the third-party transaction platform, sending, by the third-party transaction platform, a transaction information to the supervision unit, giving, by the supervision unit, a download authority to the client according to the transaction information; and downloading, by the client, via the login port, and under supervision of the supervision unit, at least one of the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model, thus purchased.
8. The cloud-based transaction method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 7, wherein the storage unit, the supervision unit, the trade port and the login port are integrated into a cloud server.
9. The cloud-based transaction method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 8, further comprising a step: uploading, by the client, a second training program for a neural network via the login port, the supervision unit permitting the second training program to be stored in the storage unit, and the cloud server performing training with the second training program on the plurality of pieces of data so as to create an improvement training model and store the improvement training model in the storage unit.
10. The cloud-based transaction method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 9, wherein, in absence of the transaction information, the supervision unit only permits the client to download, from the storage unit and via the login port, the improvement training model which results from training carried out with the second training program.
11. The cloud-based transaction method capable of providing a neural network training model in a supervised state according to claim 7, further comprising a service control interface operable by the client via the login port when the client is connected to the login port, wherein the service control interface offers the client purchase options, namely the pre-training model, the at least one first training program and the at least one post-training model, to select from, and the service control interface provides a link to the third-party transaction platform.
</claims>
</document>
