<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Educational Measures, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Konieczka, Steve James
Bakewell, Cynthia Kiyoko
Pohlmann, Justin Michael
CRAWFORD, Marc William
Nelson, Tyler Paul
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663124
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVED MEETING ENGAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, the systems and methods built in accordance with the present disclosure may analyze audience engagement with a presentation displayed during a meeting and provide feedback to a presenter during and/or after the presentation. In some embodiments, the provided feedback may include determining metrics indicative of participant engagement levels. Participant engagement levels may then be used to adjust meetings in real-time and/or after the meeting has ended. In some embodiments, the system may include a hybrid configuration where a subset of the presenters, participants and moderators are physically present in the same environment. In some embodiments, the system may include a fully virtual configuration where all of the presenters, participants and moderators are physically remote from each other. A system may include presenter computing devices, participant computing devices and a server system including a data analytics module configured to determine metrics indicative of participant engagement levels.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system comprising: a presenter computing device configured to generate a presentation for a meeting environment; a participant computing device configured to display the presentation and generate participant data comprising one or more participant reactions to the displayed presentation; and a server system comprising one or more processors and a memory that includes instructions, that when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to: receive a presentation for a meeting environment and presentation data from the presenter computing device or a moderator computing device; display on a participant computing device the received presentation; receive participant data from the participant computing device; determine, by a data analytics module of the server system, a key metric for the meeting environment based on at least one of the received participant data and received presentation data; and modify a presentation of the meeting environment based on the determined key metric.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the participant data comprises at least one of participant engagement data, participant feedback, and participant login timing data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the presentation data comprises at least one of slides associated with the presentation, timing information for when each slide is displayed to a participant, polling questions, chat data, audio transcripts from the presentation, and video transcripts from the presentation.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the key metric comprises at least one of participant engagement levels, participant engagement over time, meeting ratings, popularity of content, key words, total count of participants, top participants based on engagement levels, percentage of participants who engaged with content, percentage of highly engaged participants, total number of actions, actions by action types, response rates to polling questions, response rates to survey questions, percentage of correction questions, experience ratings, counts of actions over time, word cloud, engagement levels by slide, response graphs by questions, participant identification, and participant profiles.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein a participant profile comprises at least one of a participant demographic, an indication of the content a participant responded to, the percentage of questions the participant answered correctly, or a unique participant link.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the modification to the presentation comprises altering at least one of slide formatting, slide order, slide content, presentation order, and presentation content.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the server system is configured to integrate with a videoconferencing software to provide a user interface on one of the participant computing device, presenter computing device and moderator computing device to display the presentation, and engage with the presentation.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a private network configured to communicatively interface at least one of the participant computing device, moderator computing device, and the presenter computing device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the moderator computing device is configured to: receive participant inquiries from a participant computing device; determine a and provide a subset of the participant inquiries for presenter input; receive presenter input on the subset of participant inquiries; and provide the presenter input to the participant computing device for display.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the participant computing devices, presenter computing devices and moderator computing devices are located in physical proximity.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the participant computing devices, presenter computing devices and moderator computing devices are remote from each other.
12. A method comprising: receiving, at a server system, participant data from a participant computing device of a meeting environment; receiving, at a server system, presentation data from at least one of a presenter computing device or a moderator computing device of the meeting environment; determining one or more key metrics for the meeting environment based on the received participant data and received presentation data; and modifying a presentation for the meeting environment based on the determined one or more key metrics.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the participant data comprises at least one of participant engagement data, participant feedback, and participant login timing data.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the presentation data comprises at least one of slides associated with the presentation, timing information for when each slide is displayed to a participant, polling questions, chat data, audio transcripts from the presentation, and video transcripts from the presentation.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the key metric comprises at least one of participant engagement levels, participant engagement over time, meeting ratings, popularity of content, key words, total count of participants, top participants based on engagement levels, percentage of participants who engaged with content, percentage of highly engaged participants, total number of actions, actions by action types, response rates to polling questions, response rates to survey questions, percentage of correction questions, experience ratings, counts of actions over time, word cloud, engagement levels by slide, response graphs by questions, participant identification, and participant profiles.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein a participant profile comprises at least one of a participant demographic, an indication of the content a participant responded to, or the percentage of questions the participant answered correctly, or a unique participant link.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein modifying the presentation of the meeting environment comprises altering at least one of slide formatting, slide order, slide content, presentation order, and presentation content.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein determining one or more key metrics for the meeting environment comprises determining one or more key metrics for a particular slide, determining one or more key metrics across a collection of slides, and comparing at least one of the determined key metrics for a particular slide, and key metrics for across a collection of slides, with a benchmark.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving participant inquiries from a participant computing device; determining and providing a subset of the participant inquiries for presenter input; receiving presenter input on the subset of participant inquiries; and providing the presenter input to the participant computing device for display.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein at least one of the participant computing device, moderator computing device, and the presenter computing device is communicatively coupled over a private network.
</claims>
</document>
