<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FERRUM HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
BERGEN, LEON
KO, KENNETH
TRAN, PELU S
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052727
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR COMPUTING PERFORMANCE IN MULTIPLE MACHINE LEARNING CLASSIFIERS
</title>

<abstract>
Performance in a multi-classification system having multiple component classifiers can be based on a combination of the true positive rate (TPR) and false positive rate (FPR) of the component classifiers. Each component classifier can be configured with a decision threshold, and its TPR and FPR determined from a training set presented to the component classifier so configured. A system TPR and system FPR can be determined from the component TPRs and FPRs. A set of system TPRs and FPRs can be determined from additional sets of decision thresholds.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method in a system comprising at least a first component classifier and a second component classifier, the method comprising: (i) configuring the first and second component classifiers with corresponding first and second decision thresholds in a set of decision thresholds; (ii) determining a component true positive rate (TPR) and a component false positive rate (FPR) for the configured first component classifier; (iii) determining a component TPR and a component FPR for the configured second component; (iv) computing a system FPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers; and (v) computing a system TPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising repeating (i) through (v) for a plurality of sets of decision thresholds to produce a corresponding plurality of system TPRs and FPRs, wherein one of the plurality of system FPRs and TPRs is selected by a user and the first and second classifiers comprising the system are configured using the corresponding set of decision thresholds.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising identifying a subset of system TPRs and FPRs from the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein one of the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs is selected from the subset of system TPRs and FPRs.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising identifying a Pareto frontier of system TPRs and FPRs from among the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing the system TPR using only the component TPR of the first classifier and the component FPR of the second classifier.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving base rates that are independent of performance of the first and second classifiers and using the base rates to compute the system FPR.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the component TPR and FPR for the first component classifier includes presenting a training set to the first component classifier and computing the component TPR and FPR based on the number of positive and negative decisions made by the first component classifier.
9. An apparatus in a system comprising at least a first component classifier and a second component classifier, the apparatus comprising: means for configuring the first and second component classifiers with corresponding first and second decision thresholds in a set of decision thresholds; means for determining a component true positive rate (TPR) and a component false positive rate (FPR) for the configured first component classifier; means for determining a component TPR and a component FPR for the configured second component; means for computing a system FPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers; and means for computing a system TPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the means generate a plurality of system TPRs and FPRs for a corresponding plurality of sets of decision thresholds, wherein one of the plurality of system FPRs and TPRs is selected by a user and the first and second classifiers comprising the system are configured using the corresponding set of decision thresholds.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising means for identifying a subset of system TPRs and FPRs from the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs, wherein one of the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs is selected from the subset of system TPRs and FPRs.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the subset is a Pareto frontier of system TPRs and FPRs from among the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising means for computing the system TPR using only the component TPR of the first classifier and the component FPR of the second classifier.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising means for receiving base rates that are independent of performance of the first and second classifiers, wherein the base rates are used to compute the system FPR.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the means for determining the component TPR and FPR for the first component classifier includes presenting a training set to the first component classifier and computing the component TPR and FPR based on the number of positive and negative decisions made by the first component classifier.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium in a system comprising at least a first component classifier and a second component classifier, the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions, which when executed by a computer device, cause the computer device to: (i) configure the first and second component classifiers with corresponding first and second decision thresholds in a set of decision thresholds; (ii) determine a component true positive rate (TPR) and a component false positive rate (FPR) for the configured first component classifier; (iii) determine a component TPR and a component FPR for the configured second component; (iv) compute a system FPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers; and (v) compute a system TPR of the system using the component TPRs and component FPRs of both the first and second component classifiers.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the computer executable instructions, which when executed by the computer device, further cause the computer device to repeat (i) through (v) for a plurality of sets of decision thresholds to produce a corresponding plurality of system TPRs and FPRs, wherein one of the plurality of system FPRs and TPRs is selected by a user and the first and second classifiers comprising the system are configured using the corresponding set of decision thresholds.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the computer executable instructions, which when executed by the computer device, further cause the computer device to identify a subset of system TPRs and FPRs from the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein one of the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs is selected from the subset of system TPRs and FPRs.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the computer executable instructions, which when executed by the computer device, further cause the computer device to identify a Pareto frontier of system TPRs and FPRs from among the plurality of system TPRs and FPRs.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the computer executable instructions, which when executed by the computer device, further cause the computer device to compute the system TPR using only the component TPR of the first classifier and the component FPR of the second classifier.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the computer executable instructions, which when executed by the computer device, further cause the computer device to compute the system FPR includes base rates that are independent of performance of the first and second classifiers.
</claims>
</document>
