<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG LIANG
ZHAO, HAIFENG
Chen, Yang
Zhang, Xiaohai
Menarguez, Michael A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED NATURAL LANGUAGE QUERY SEGMENT TAGGING
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented techniques for enhanced tagging of natural language queries that are initially segmented and tagged by a named entity recognition system. By doing so, enhanced tagging of a natural language query that represents a deeper understanding of the query is provided. The enhanced tagging improves the operation of search engines that use the enhanced tags by enabling the search engine to identify and return more relevant search results in answers to natural language queries.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a first artificial neural network system capable of generating a first set of enhanced tag predictions for a query segment of a natural language query based on a set of baseline tag predictions generated for the query segment by a named entity recognition system; a second artificial neural network system capable of generating a second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a set of one or more pretrained word vectors obtained for the query segment; a third artificial neural network system capable of generating a third set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on both: (a) a set of pre-context pretrained word vectors obtained for words preceding the query segment in the natural language query and (b) a set of post-context pretrained word vectors for words following the query segment in the natural language query; and a prediction mixing system capable of mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions, the second set of enhanced tag predictions, and the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate an output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a probability value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a probability value.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a logit value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a logit value.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction mixing system is capable of: mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions with the second set of enhanced tag predictions based on a set of learned mixing weights to generate an intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions; and mixing the intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions with the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate the output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the query segment comprises a word; and wherein the second artificial neural network system is capable of generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a pretrained word vector obtained for the word.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the query segment comprises a plurality of words; and wherein the second artificial neural network system is capable of generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a respective pretrained word vector obtained for each word of the plurality of words.
7. A method comprising: a first artificial neural network system generating a first set of enhanced tag predictions for a query segment of a natural language query based on a set of baseline tag predictions generated for the query segment by a named entity recognition system; a second artificial neural network system generating a second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a set of one or more pretrained word vectors obtained for the query segment; a third artificial neural network system generating a third set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on both: (a) a set of pre-context pretrained word vectors obtained for words preceding the query segment in the natural language query and (b) a set of post-context pretrained word vectors for words following the query segment in the natural language query; and a prediction mixing system mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions, the second set of enhanced tag predictions, and the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate an output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a probability value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a probability value.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a logit value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a logit value.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising: the prediction mixing system mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions with the second set of enhanced tag predictions based on a set of learned mixing weights to generate an intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions; and the prediction mixing system mixing the intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions with the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate the output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the query segment comprises a word; and wherein the method further comprises the second artificial neural network system generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a pretrained word vector obtained for the word.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the query segment comprises a plurality of words; and wherein the method further comprises the second artificial neural network system generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a respective pretrained word vector obtained for each word of the plurality of words.
13. The method of claim 7, further comprising jointly training the first artificial neural network, the second artificial neural network, and the third artificial neural network based on a set of training examples.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein a particular enhanced tag prediction of the output set of enhanced tag predictions corresponds to a particular enhanced tag that is a temporal refinement of a particular baseline tag.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform: a first artificial neural network system generating a first set of enhanced tag predictions for a query segment of a natural language query based on a set of baseline tag predictions generated for the query segment by a named entity recognition system; a second artificial neural network system generating a second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a set of one or more pretrained word vectors obtained for the query segment; a third artificial neural network system generating a third set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on both: (a) a set of pre-context pretrained word vectors obtained for words preceding the query segment in the natural language query and (b) a set of post-context pretrained word vectors for words following the query segment in the natural language query; and a prediction mixing system mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions, the second set of enhanced tag predictions, and the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate an output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable of claim 15, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a probability value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a probability value.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable of claim 15, wherein: each prediction of the set of baseline tag predictions is a logit value, and each prediction of the first set of enhanced tag predictions is a logit value.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable of claim 15, the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform: the prediction mixing system mixing the first set of enhanced tag predictions with the second set of enhanced tag predictions based on a set of learned mixing weights to generate an intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions; and the prediction mixing system mixing the intermediate set of enhanced tag predictions with the third set of enhanced tag predictions to generate the output set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable of claim 15, wherein the query segment comprises a word; and wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform the second artificial neural network system generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a pretrained word vector obtained for the word.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable of claim 15, wherein the query segment comprises a plurality of words; and wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform the second artificial neural network system generating the second set of enhanced tag predictions for the query segment based on a respective pretrained word vector obtained for each word of the plurality of words.
</claims>
</document>
