<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOLDEN, RADHIKA
GOUTHAMAN, JOTHI
VENKATARAMAN, MAHESH
Nochilur, Sunder Ranganathan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70154314
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FAULT ANALYSIS AND PREDICTION USING EMPIRICAL ARCHITECTURE ANALYTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for fault analysis and prediction in an enterprise environment is described. In one embodiment, a method includes obtaining data from a plurality of sources in the enterprise environment. The plurality of sources includes at least one or more systems, users, or applications. The obtained data is associated with identifiers that include a theme selected from a set of themes and one or more keywords that are specific to each theme. The method includes generating a workflow for a user based on a session identifier and/or timestamps associated with activity by the user. The workflow identifies a time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment. The method also includes determining at least one fault identification or fault prediction based on the workflow and identifiers associated with the obtained data that corresponds to the workflow.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for fault analysis and prediction in an enterprise environment, the method comprising: obtaining data from a plurality of sources in the enterprise environment, wherein the plurality of sources includes at least one or more systems, users, or applications; associating the obtained data with identifiers that include a theme selected from a set of themes and one or more keywords, wherein the keywords are specific to each theme; generating a workflow for a user based on a session identifier and/or timestamps associated with activity by the user, wherein the workflow identifies a time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment; and determining at least one fault identification or fault prediction associated with the enterprise environment based on the workflow and identifiers associated with the obtained data that corresponds to the workflow.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the at least one fault identification or fault prediction based on the workflow and identifiers further comprises: comparing workflows and identifiers from multiple users in the enterprise environment to determine the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fault prediction is based on a subset of interactions of the time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the subset of interactions correspond to a known fault condition for the enterprise environment stored in a fault database generated based on a previous time-based sequence of interactions by a different user.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on the at least one fault identification or fault prediction, implementing a corrective action using a database that correlates fault conditions to known corrective actions.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the corrective action is implemented automatically upon determination of the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining data from the plurality of sources in the enterprise environment comprises using a plurality of agents to collect data; and wherein each of the plurality of agents collects data from a different source within the enterprise environment.
8. A system for fault analysis and prediction in an enterprise environment, the system comprising: at least one interface configured to communicate with systems and applications in the enterprise environment; a memory; and a processor in communication with the at least one interface and the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: obtain data from a plurality of sources in the enterprise environment, wherein the plurality of sources includes at least one or more systems, users, or applications; associate the obtained data with identifiers that include a theme selected from a set of themes and one or more keywords, wherein the keywords are specific to each theme; generate a workflow for a user based on a session identifier and/or timestamps associated with activity by the user, wherein the workflow identifies a time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment; and determine at least one fault identification or fault prediction associated with the enterprise environment based on the workflow and identifiers associated with the obtained data that corresponds to the workflow.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the at least one fault identification or fault prediction based on the workflow and identifiers further comprises: comparing workflows and identifiers from multiple users in the enterprise environment to determine the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the fault prediction is based on a subset of interactions of the time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the subset of interactions correspond to a known fault condition for the enterprise environment stored in a fault database generated based on a previous time-based sequence of interactions by a different user.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: implement a corrective action using a database that correlates fault conditions to known corrective actions based on the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to implement the corrective action automatically upon determination of the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein obtaining data from the plurality of sources in the enterprise environment comprises using a plurality of agents to collect data; and wherein each of the plurality of agents collects data from a different source within the enterprise environment.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor of a fault analysis and prediction system, causes the processor to: obtain data from a plurality of sources in an enterprise environment, wherein the plurality of sources includes at least one or more systems, users, or applications; associate the obtained data with identifiers that include a theme selected from a set of themes and one or more keywords, wherein the keywords are specific to each theme; generate a workflow for a user based on a session identifier and/or timestamps associated with activity by the user, wherein the workflow identifies a time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment; and determine at least one fault identification or fault prediction associated with the enterprise environment based on the workflow and identifiers associated with the obtained data that corresponds to the workflow.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein determining the at least one fault identification or fault prediction based on the workflow and identifiers further comprises: comparing workflows and identifiers from multiple users in the enterprise environment to determine the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the fault prediction is based on a subset of interactions of the time-based sequence of interactions by the user with the at least one or more systems or applications in the enterprise environment.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the subset of interactions correspond to a known fault condition for the enterprise environment stored in a fault database generated based on a previous time-based sequence of interactions by a different user.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: automatically implement a corrective action using a database that correlates fault conditions to known corrective actions based on the at least one fault identification or fault prediction upon determination of the at least one fault identification or fault prediction.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, wherein obtaining data from the plurality of sources in the enterprise environment comprises using a plurality of agents to collect data; and wherein each of the plurality of agents collects data from a different source within the enterprise environment.
</claims>
</document>
