<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SINGAPORE UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY AND DESIGN
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHAEINI, HAMID REZA
TIPPENHAUER, NILS OLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334639
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROCESS-CENTRIC SECURITY MEASUREMENT OF CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A system for monitoring security in a cyber-physical system comprises: a packet parser configured to obtain, from network traffic in the cyber-physical system, a plurality of sensor measurements from one or more sensors of the cyber-physical system, the plurality of sensor measurements relating to a physical process in the cyber-physical system, the physical process having a current process state; and a threat detector configured to determine, based on a model of the physical process and the current process state, whether the plurality of sensor measurements correspond to a security threat to the cyber-physical system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A security monitoring process for a cyber-physical system, the process comprising: obtaining, from one or more sensors of the cyber-physical system, a plurality of sensor measurements relating to a physical process in the cyber-physical system, the physical process having a current process state; performing a threat detection operation comprising determining, based on a model of the physical process and the current process state, whether the plurality of sensor measurements correspond to a security threat to the cyber-physical system.
2. A process according to claim 1, wherein the threat detection operation comprises determining a corresponding plurality of estimated values for the at least one parameter based on the model of the physical process; and determining whether the estimated values differ from one or more expected values for the at least one parameter given the current process state.
3. A process according to claim 2, comprising: determining residuals between the estimated values and the sensor measurements; determining a cumulative sum (CUSUM) of normalised residuals, wherein the normalised residuals are computed according to a difference between the residuals and α historical average of the residuals for the current process state; based at least on the CUSUM, detecting whether there is an anomaly in the current process state; and responsive to detection of an anomaly, generating an alert.
4. A process according to claim 3, wherein the detection of the anomaly is based on a comparison of the CUSUM with a threshold.
5. A process according to claim 1, wherein the model is based on system identification.
6. A process according to claim 5, wherein the model is an autoregressive model or a linear dynamical state space (LDS) model.
7. A process according to claim 1, wherein the threat detection operation comprises a classification operation using a trained model that is configured to output a class prediction based on one or more input features, and wherein at least one of the input features is derived from the plurality of sensor measurements.
8. A process according to claim 7, wherein the one or more input features are derived from one or more of: current actuation commands; sensor signals; estimated sensor signals; residuals between sensor signals and estimated sensor signals; a window of previous actuation commands; a window of previous sensor signals; a window of previous estimated sensor signals; a window of previous residuals between sensor signals and estimated sensor signals; a physical status of one or more devices implementing the physical process; a transition between physical statuses of the one or more devices; and one or more network traffic parameters of network traffic in the cyber-physical system.
9. A process according to claim 8, wherein one of the input features is a cumulative sum (CUSUM) of normalised residuals, wherein the normalised residuals are computed according to a difference between the residuals and α historical average of the residuals for the current process state.
10. A process according to claim 8, wherein the one or more network traffic parameters are derived from network packets at both process level and basic control level devices of the cyber-physical system.
11. A system for monitoring security in a cyber-physical system, the system comprising: a packet parser configured to obtain, from network traffic in the cyber-physical system, a plurality of sensor measurements from one or more sensors of the cyber-physical system, the plurality of sensor measurements relating to a physical process in the cyber-physical system, the physical process having a current process state; and a threat detector configured to determine, based on a model of the physical process and the current process state, whether the plurality of sensor measurements correspond to a security threat to the cyber-physical system.
12. A system according to claim 11, wherein the threat detector is configured to determine a corresponding plurality of estimated values for at least one parameter based on the model of the physical process; and to determine whether the estimated values differ from one or more expected values for the at least one parameter given the current process state.
13. A system according to claim 12, wherein the packet parser and/or the threat detector are configured to: determine residuals between the estimated values and the sensor measurements; determine a cumulative sum (CUSUM) of normalised residuals, wherein the normalised residuals are computed according to a difference between the residuals and α historical average of the residuals for the current process state; based at least on the CUSUM, detect whether there is an anomaly in the current process state; and responsive to detection of an anomaly, generate an alert.
14. A system according to claim 13, wherein the detection of the anomaly is based on a comparison of the CUSUM with a threshold.
15. A system according to claim 11, wherein the model is based on system identification.
16. A system according to claim 15, wherein the model is an autoregressive model or a linear dynamical state space (LDS) model.
17. A system according to claim 11, wherein the threat detection operation comprises a classification operation using a trained model that is configured to output a class prediction based on one or more input features, and wherein at least one of the input features is derived from the plurality of sensor measurements.
18. A system according to claim 17, wherein the one or more input features are derived from one or more of: current actuation commands; sensor signals; estimated sensor signals; residuals between sensor signals and estimated sensor signals; a window of previous actuation commands; a window of previous sensor signals; a window of previous estimated sensor signals; a window of previous residuals between sensor signals and estimated sensor signals; a physical status of one or more devices implementing the physical process; a transition between physical statuses of the one or more devices; and one or more network traffic parameters of network traffic in the cyber-physical system.
19. A system according to claim 18, wherein one of the input features is a cumulative sum (CUSUM) of normalised residuals, wherein the normalised residuals are computed according to a difference between the residuals and α historical average of the residuals for the current process state.
20. A system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more network traffic parameters are derived from network packets at both process level and basic control level devices of the cyber-physical system.
</claims>
</document>
