<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/25,G06F16/901,G06N7/00,G06Q50/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEN HUI
HOU FANG
CHENG, XIAOPEI
WU, YIKAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65232671
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-DIMENSIONAL INDUSTRIAL KNOWLEDGE GRAPH
</title>

<abstract>
A customized industrial graph knowledge base for an industrial operation includes a graph database storing nodes of multiple dimensions predefined according to the nature and characteristics of the industrial operation. The nodes are extracted from baseline, domain-specific, and implementation specific industrial knowledge data sources using various analytics for structured and unstructured data. The customized industrial graph knowledge base further includes edges representing relationships between nodes that are either inter-dimensional or intra-dimensional. The importance of each node to the industrial operation is further quantified using a graph model and is included in the graph database as a composite filtering parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a graph database comprising graph structural components representing data linked to an industrial operation in an industrial setting; a communication interface; system circuitry in communication with the graph database and the communication interface, the system circuitry configured to: access predefined industry-specific categories with which to tag industry-specific entities associated with the industrial setting and the industrial operation; acquire, via the communication interface, baseline industrial data elements from a first external data source; acquire, via the communication interface, domain-specific data elements characterizing the industrial setting of the industrial operation from a second external data source; acquire, via the communication interface, implementation-specific data elements collected by the industrial operation; extract, from the baseline industrial data elements, the domain-specific data elements, and the implementation-specific data elements, data entities with tags for tagging each data entity with a specific category among the predefined industry-specific categories; extract inter-category relationships between the data entities across the predefined industry-specific categories; extract intra-category relationships between the data entities within a selected category among the predefined industry-specific categories; store the data entities with the tags, the inter-category relationships, and the intra-category relationships as the graph structural components in the graph database in forms of nodes and edges; and determine a composite filtering parameter for a selected graph structural component in the graph database based on a relationship network of the selected graph structural component with other graph structural components in the graph database and based on composite filtering parameters of the other graph structure components; an application interface in communication with the graph database and the communication interface, the application interface configured to: receive a data service request via the communication interface; query the graph database to obtain a query result comprising a subset of graph structural components of the graph database; and filter the subset of graph structural components based on the data service request, the composite filtering parameter, and the tags extracted from the subset of graph structural components.
2. The system of claim 1, where the composite filtering parameter comprises a weight value determined responsive to a pre-defined graph probability model.
3. The system of claim 1, where the system circuitry is further configured to: receive supplemental data elements characterizing the industrial operation; extract an additional entity associated with the industrial operation from the supplemental data elements; and tag the additional entity with a selected industry-specific category determined from among the predefined industry-specific categories.
4. The system of claim 3, where the system circuitry is further configured to determine a weight value for the additional entity responsive to how the additional entity relates to existing graph structural components in the graph database.
5. The system of claim 4, where the system circuitry is further configured to determine to include the additional entity in the graph database when the weight value of the additional entity exceeds a pre-defined inclusion threshold.
6. The system of claim 1, where the system circuitry is further configured to store the composite filtering parameter as a property of the selected graph database structural component.
7. The system of claim 1, where in the system circuitry is further configured to store industry-specific category tags in the graph database as node properties.
8. The system of claim 1, where the selected graph database structural component comprises a node within the graph database.
9. The system of claim 1, where the selected graph database structural component comprises an edge within the graph database.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising an intermediate data repository for storing an intermediate representation of the graph database, where the system circuitry is further configured to: access the graph database; derive the intermediate representation of the graph database; and store the intermediate representation in the intermediate data repository.
11. A method comprising: accessing predefined industry-specific categories with which to tag industry-specific entities associated with an industrial operation in an industrial setting; acquiring baseline industrial data elements from a first external data source; acquiring domain-specific data elements characterizing the industrial setting of the industrial operation from a second external data source; acquiring implementation-specific data elements collected by the industrial operation; extracting, from the baseline industrial data elements, the domain-specific data elements, and the implementation-specific data elements, data entities with tags for tagging each data entity with a specific category among the predefined industry-specific categories; extracting inter-category relationships between the data entities across the predefined industry-specific categories; and extracting intra-category relationships between the data entities within a selected category among the predefined industry-specific categories; storing the data entities with the tags, the inter-category relationships, and the intra-category relationships as graph structural components in a graph database in forms of nodes and edges; and determining a composite filtering parameter for a selected graph structural component in the graph database based on a relationship network of the selected graph structural component with other graph structural components in the graph database and based on composite filtering parameters of the other graph structure components; receiving a data service request; querying the graph database to obtain a query result comprising a subset of graph structural components of the graph database; and filtering the subset of graph structural components based on the data service request, the composite filtering parameter, and the tags extracted from the subset of graph structural components.
12. The method of claim 11, where the composite filtering parameter comprises a weight value determined responsive to a pre-defined graph probability model.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving supplemental data elements characterizing the industrial operation; extracting an additional entity associated with the industrial operation from the supplemental data elements; and tagging the additional entity with a selected industry-specific category determined from among the predefined industry-specific categories.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a weight value for the additional entity responsive to how the additional entity relates to existing graph structural components in the graph database.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining to include the additional entity in the graph database when the weight value of the additional entity exceeds a pre-defined inclusion threshold.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing the composite filtering parameter as a property of the selected graph database structural component.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising storing industry-specific category tags in the graph database as node properties.
18. The method of claim 11, where the selected graph database structural component comprises a node within the graph database.
19. The method of claim 11, where the selected graph database structural component comprises an edge within the graph database.
20. The method of claim 11, further comprising deriving an intermediate representation of the graph database; and storing the intermediate representation in an intermediate data repository.
</claims>
</document>
