<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K43/00,A01K45/00,B01D71/72,G01N21/3586,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TERAHERTZ GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
GABBAI, ERAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70769814
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR NON-INVASIVELY DETERMINING EGG PROPERTIES
</title>

<abstract>
A method and a system are provided for collecting volatile organic compounds and applying THz based detection of a signature of the collected compounds to determine egg properties. Egg properties include gender and/or fertility.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining one or more egg properties prior to incubation, the system comprising: at least one pressure dischargeable capacitor located at the propagation path of volatile compounds released by the egg, said pressure dischargeable capacitor being configured and operable for trapping the collected volatile compounds; and a controller configured to and operable for receiving data indicative of the collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range and processing said data for identifying a signature being indicative of at least one egg property, to thereby generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein said eggs are avian eggs.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein said pressure dischargeable capacitor is in communication with a vacuum source, a gas collection device coupled to the vacuum source and a membrane positioned in the passageway coupling the vacuum source to the gas collection device, wherein the membrane is capable of capturing volatile compounds.
4. The system of claim 1, additionally comprising an electromagnetic radiation transmitter and detector.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the membrane is positionable in at least one of the following (a) within the electromagnetic radiation emitted by the transmitter; (b) between the pressure dischargeable capacitor and the vacuum source such that the captured volatile organic compounds are pulled from the avian egg through the pressure dischargeable capacitor and onto the membrane; and (c) any combination thereof.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller is configured and operable for performing a pattern recognition of said signature; further wherein said signature being indicative of at least one of selected from a group comprising eggs' gender and eggs' fertility.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein said system additionally comprising at one communicable and readable database; said database comprising collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein said system has 2 modes of operation: (a) a learning phase; and, (b) a detection phase.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein, in said learning phase, said controller trains a machine learning model to detect at least one parameter in said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein aid parameter selected from a group consisting of extrapolation of at least 1000 eggs, trends in said database of said plurality of eggs, eigenvector of said database of said plurality of eggs, eigenvalues of said database of said plurality of eggs, feature extraction step being configured to estimate the most relevant vectors defining the data using a principal component analysis, a pattern classification using a combined linear and nonlinear pattern recognition approach, and any combination thereof.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein, in said learning phase, said training by said controller is performed by at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof on said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein, in said detection phase, said controller performs at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof on said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein, in said detection phase, said controller detects said signature being indicative of at least one egg property by said trained machine learning model.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein said system additionally comprising at least one communicable and readable database storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: training a machine learning model to detect at least one parameter of said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property; and, after said step of training, real time detecting said parameter by said trained machine learning model.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein said controller performs at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein said Principal Component Analysis is characterized by the following formula: where J is the power of separation between two groups; wherein J>15.
17. The system of claims 1, wherein said controller additionally performs Fast Fourier Transformation in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
18. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the following is being held true (a) said membrane is made of hardened extruded plastic; (b) said membrane is able to trap at least one selected from a group consisting of organic compound, non organic compound, mixture thereof, Ketones, aromatic alcohols, aldehydes, 1-butanol, dimethyl disulfide, methyl benzene, hexanal, phenylethane, heptanal, benzaldehyde, dimethyl trisulfide, phenol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 5-isopropenyl-1-methyl-1cyclohexene, acetophenone, 2-nonanone, 2-decanone, 2-isopropylphenol, benzothiazole, 2-undecanone, 1,3-diacetylbenzene, diethyl phthalate, 1,3-diphenyl propane, Ammonia, Greenhouse gases selected from Water vapor Methane (CH4), Carbon dioxide (CO2), Nitrous oxide (N2O), Ozone (O3), Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons (includes HCFCs and HFCs), NO, NO2 and any combination thereof; (c) said membrane is single-use, disposable membrane; (d) said membrane is reusable; (e) said membrane is removable from the sampling apparatus; (f) any combination thereof.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein said volatile compounds is at least one selected from a group consisting of organic compound, non organic compound, mixture thereof, Ketones, aromatic alcohols, aldehydes, 1-butanol, dimethyl disulfide, methyl benzene, hexanal, phenylethane, heptanal, benzaldehyde, dimethyl trisulfide, phenol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 5-isopropenyl-1-methyl-1cyclohexene, acetophenone, 2-nonanone, 2-decanone, 2-isopropylphenol, benzothiazole, 2-undecanone, 1,3-diacetylbenzene, diethyl phthalate, 1,3-diphenyl propane, Ammonia, Greenhouse gases selected from Water vapor Methane (CH4), Carbon dioxide (CO2), Nitrous oxide (N2O), Ozone (O3), Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons (includes HCFCs and HFCs), NO, NO2 and any combination thereof.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein said pressure dischargeable capacitor is configured and operable for trapping the collected volatile compounds within a period of time being less than a period of time spent for transporting the egg from a tray to a conveyor.
21. The system of claim 3, wherein said period of time is less than 5 seconds.
22. The system of claim 3, wherein said period of time is less than 1 hour.
23. The system of claim 1, further comprising a spectroscopic assembly including a radiation transmitter unit being configured and operable to scan said permeable capacitor holding the collected volatile compounds by generating an electromagnetic radiation in the range of THz within a scanning window of about 100 GHz and a detection unit being configured and operable to detect an electromagnetic radiation emitted by said collected volatile compounds.
24. The system of claim 5, wherein said detection unit is located at a certain distance from said permeable capacitor, said distance having a value being less than the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein said pressure dischargeable capacitor has a thickness being at least several times the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation.
26. A method for determining one or more egg properties prior to incubation, the method comprising: receiving data indicative of collected volatile compounds being scanned with electromagnetic radiation in the THz range, and processing said data for identifying a signature being indicative of at least one of gender and fertility.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein said processing comprises performing a pattern recognition of said signature.
28. The method of claim 26, further comprising performing a THz spectroscopy of the egg.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising scanning the collected volatile compounds with electromagnetic radiation in the THz range within a scanning window of about 100 GHz.
30. The method of claim 26, further comprising trapping collected volatile compounds by suction, wherein said trapping is performed within a period of time being less than a period of time spent for transporting the egg from a tray to a conveyor.
31. The method of claim 26, wherein said period of time is less than 5 seconds.
32. The method of claim 26, wherein said period of time is less than 1 hour.
33. The method of claim 26, wherein said eggs are avian eggs.
34. The method of claim 26, additionally comprising step of providing at one communicable and readable database; said database comprising collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs.
35. The method of claim 26, additionally comprising step of providing 2 modes of operation: (a) a learning phase; and, (b) a detection phase.
36. The method of claim 35, wherein, in said learning phase, training a machine learning model to detect at least one parameter in said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
37. The method of claim 36, additionally comprising step of selecting said parameter selected from a group consisting of extrapolation of at least 1000 eggs, trends in said database of said plurality of eggs, eigenvector of said database of said plurality of eggs, eigenvalues of said database of said plurality of egg, feature extraction step being configured to estimate the most relevant vectors defining the data using a principal component analysis, a pattern classification using a combined linear and nonlinear pattern recognition approach, and any combination thereof.
38. The method of claim 35, wherein, in said learning phase, said training is performed by at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof on said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
39. The method of claim 35, further comprising, in said detection phase, performing at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof on said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
40. The method of claim 35, further comprising, in said detection phase, detecting said signature being indicative of at least one egg property by said trained machine learning model.
41. The method of claim 26, additionally comprising providing at least one communicable and readable database storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: training a machine learning model to detect at least one parameter of said collected volatile compounds being scanned with an electromagnetic radiation in the THz range of a plurality of eggs stored in said communicable and readable database in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property; and, after said step of training, real time detecting said parameter by said trained machine learning model.
42. The method of claim 26, wherein said pressure dischargeable capacitor is in communication with a vacuum source, a gas collection device coupled to the vacuum source and a membrane positioned in the passageway coupling the vacuum source to the gas collection device, wherein the membrane is capable of capturing volatile compounds.
43. The method of claim 26, additionally comprising an electromagnetic radiation transmitter and detector.
44. The method of claim 26, wherein the membrane is positionable in at least one selected from (a) within the electromagnetic radiation emitted by the transmitter; (b) between the pressure dischargeable capacitor and the vacuum source such that the captured volatile compounds are pulled from the avian egg through the pressure dischargeable capacitor and onto the membrane.
45. The method of claim 26, wherein said controller is configured and operable for performing a pattern recognition of said signature.
46. The method of claim 28, wherein said signature being indicative of at least one of selected from a group comprising eggs' gender and eggs' fertility.
47. The method of claim 26, wherein said controller performs at least one algorithm selected from a group consisting of Leave One Out (LOO) algorithm, Principal Component Analysis algorithm, k-nearest neighbors algorithm, Quadrature, Fisher's linear discriminant, Fisher's non linear discriminant, Network Acceleration algorithm (NNA), any machine learning algorithm and any combination thereof in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
48. The method of claim 47, wherein said Principal Component Analysis is characterized by the following formula: where J is the power of separation between two groups; wherein J>15.
49. The method of claims 26, wherein said controller additionally performs Fast Fourier Transformation in order to generate information data being indicative of at least one egg property.
50. The method of claim 26, wherein at least one of the following is being held true (a) said membrane is made of hardened extruded plastic; (b) said membrane is able to trap at least one selected from a group consisting of organic compound, non organic compound, mixture thereof, Ketones, aromatic alcohols, aldehydes, 1-butanol, dimethyl disulfide, methyl benzene, hexanal, phenylethane, heptanal, benzaldehyde, dimethyl trisulfide, phenol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 5-isopropenyl-1-methyl-1cyclohexene, acetophenone, 2-nonanone, 2-decanone, 2-isopropylphenol, benzothiazole, 2-undecanone, 1,3-diacetylbenzene, diethyl phthalate, 1,3-diphenyl propane, Ammonia, Greenhouse gases selected from Water vapor Methane (CH4), Carbon dioxide (CO2), Nitrous oxide (N2O), Ozone (O3), Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons (includes HCFCs and HFCs), NO, NO2 and any combination thereof; (c) said membrane is single-use, disposable membrane; (d) said membrane is reusable; (e) said membrane is removable from the sampling apparatus; (f) and any combination thereof.
51. The method of claim 26, wherein said volatile compounds is selected from a group consisting of organic compound, non organic compound, mixture thereof, Ketones, aromatic alcohols, aldehydes, 1-butanol, dimethyl disulfide, methyl benzene, hexanal, phenylethane, heptanal, benzaldehyde, dimethyl trisulfide, phenol, 2-(2-ethoxyethoxy)ethanol, 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, 5-isopropenyl-1-methyl-1cyclohexene, acetophenone, 2-nonanone, 2-decanone, 2-isopropylphenol, benzothiazole, 2-undecanone, 1,3-diacetylbenzene, diethyl phthalate, 1,3-diphenyl propane, Ammonia, Greenhouse gases selected from Water vapor Methane (CH4), Carbon dioxide (CO2), Nitrous oxide (N2O), Ozone (O3), Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), Hydrofluorocarbons (includes HCFCs and HFCs), NO, NO2 and any combination thereof.
52. The method of claim 26, wherein said pressure dischargeable capacitor is configured and operable for trapping the collected volatile compounds within a period of time being less than a period of time spent for transporting the egg from a tray to a conveyor.
53. The method of claim 52, wherein said period of time is less than 5 seconds.
</claims>
</document>
