<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/10,G06F3/06,G11C16/26,G11C16/34,G11C29/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANG, SUK-EUN
KIM, CHANHA
LEE, HEE WON
LEE, JIN WOOK
LEE, JUWON
LEE, KWANGWOO
LEE, YUNJUNG
RO, SEUNGKYUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69523336
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORAGE DEVICE INCLUDING NONVOLATILE MEMORY DEVICE AND OPERATING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A storage device includes a nonvolatile memory device including a memory block and a memory controller. The memory block includes a first memory region connected with a first word line and a second memory region connected with a second word line. The memory controller sets a read block voltage based on a first read voltage of the first memory region. The memory controller determines a second read voltage of the second memory region based on variation information and the read block voltage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A storage device comprising: a nonvolatile memory device including at least one memory block, the at least one memory block including at least a first memory region connected to a first word line and a second memory region connected to a second word line; and a memory controller configured to, set a read block voltage corresponding to the memory block based on a first read voltage to be applied to the first memory region, set variation information related to the first memory region, the second memory region, and the read block voltage based on a change of a read voltage of the first memory region and a change of a read voltage of the second memory region, and determine a second read voltage to be applied to the second memory region based on the variation information.
2. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the memory block further includes a reference memory region connected to a reference word line; the memory controller is further configured to, set first offset information based on a difference between a predicted read voltage of the reference memory region and a predicted read voltage of the first memory region, and set second offset information based on a difference between the predicted read voltage of the reference memory region and a predicted read voltage of the second memory region; and the variation information includes the first offset information and the second offset information.
3. The storage device of claim 2, wherein the memory controller is further configured to calculate the read block voltage based on the first read voltage and the first offset information.
4. The storage device of claim 2, wherein the memory controller is further configured to calculate the second read voltage based on the read block voltage and the second offset information.
5. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the variation information includes a plurality of variation tables respectively corresponding to a plurality of conditions classified with respect to at least one deterioration factor; and each of the plurality of variation tables includes, first word line information generated based on a read voltage of the first memory region set according to the corresponding condition to each of the plurality of variation tables, and second word line information generated based on a read voltage of the second memory region set according to the corresponding condition to each of the plurality of variation tables.
6. The storage device of claim 5, wherein the memory controller is further configured to select one variation table of the plurality of variation tables based on the first read voltage and the first word line information included in each of the plurality of variation tables.
7. The storage device of claim 6, wherein the memory controller is further configured to: calculate the read block voltage based on the first read voltage and the first word line information included in the selected variation table; and calculate the second read voltage based on the read block voltage and the second word line information included in the selected variation table.
8. The storage device of claim 5, wherein the memory controller is further configured to: detect a deterioration state of the memory block corresponding to the at least one deterioration factor; and select one variation table of the plurality of variation tables based on the deterioration state.
9. The storage device of claim 5, wherein the at least one deterioration factor includes at least one of a program/erase count, a read count, a retention time, a temperature, or a read disturb of the memory block.
10. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the variation information includes coefficient information corresponding to a desired relationship between a read voltage of the first memory region and a read voltage of the second memory region; and the memory controller is further configured to calculate the second read voltage based on the desired relationship, the coefficient information, and the read block voltage.
11. The storage device of claim 1, wherein the memory controller is further configured to generate prediction model information by training a desired relationship between a read voltage of the second memory region and a read voltage of the first memory region; and the variation information includes the generated prediction model information.
12. An operating method of a storage device, the method comprising: receiving, using a memory controller, a read request for a memory region connected to a target word line; searching, using the memory controller, for a read block voltage corresponding to a memory block included in the memory region, in response to the read request; set, using the memory controller, variation information based on prediction values of read voltages, the read voltages being respectively provided to a plurality of word lines of the memory region; and calculating, using the memory controller, a target read voltage to be provided to the target word line based on the read block voltage and the variation information.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: setting, using the memory controller, the read block voltage based on a read voltage provided to a word line corresponding to a successful read operation before receiving the read request.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: setting, using the memory controller, the variation information to include a variation offset table, the variation offset table generated based on a difference between a prediction value of a read voltage provided to a reference word line and prediction values of read voltages respectively provided to remaining word lines among the plurality of word lines; and setting, using the memory controller, the read block voltage based on the variation offset table and a read voltage provided to a word line corresponding to a successful read operation.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: setting, using the memory controller, the variation information to include a plurality of variation tables respectively corresponding to a plurality of conditions classified with respect to at least one deterioration factor; selecting, using the memory controller, one variation table of the plurality of variation tables based on a read voltage provided to a word line corresponding to a successful read operation; and setting, using the memory controller, the read block voltage based on the read voltage and the selected variation table.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: setting, using the memory controller, a desired relationship based on a correlation between the prediction values of the read voltages; and setting, using the memory controller, the variation information to include a coefficient model associated with the desired relationship.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, using the memory controller, whether a read operation associated with the memory region succeeds, in response to the target read voltage being provided to the target word line.
18. A storage device comprising: a nonvolatile memory including at least one memory block; and a memory controller configured to, set a read block voltage for the at least one memory block based on a read voltage provided to a word line corresponding to a successful read operation and location information corresponding to the word line, and determine a target read voltage to be provided to a target word line connected with a read-requested memory region based on the read block voltage and location information of the target word line.
19. The storage device of claim 18, wherein the memory controller is further configured to determine the target read voltage based on a current deterioration state of the nonvolatile memory.
20. The storage device of claim 18, further comprising: a buffer memory configured to store the read block voltage, the location information of the target word line, and variation information under control of the memory controller, the variation information generated based on prediction values of read voltages, and the read voltages being respectively provided to a plurality of word lines; and the memory controller is further configured to calculate the target read voltage by applying the read block voltage, the location information of the word line, and the location information of the target word line to the variation information.
</claims>
</document>
