<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/911,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHATT, JAPAN
KAITHA, SUNIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66248260
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MONITORING DATA STREAMS AND SCALING COMPUTING RESOURCES BASED ON THE DATA STREAMS
</title>

<abstract>
A device may determine values for a set of metrics related to a set of event messages being processed, by a set of server devices, from a set of queues. The values for the set of metrics may be determined as the set of event messages are being processed. Each of the set of queues may be associated with a different subset of event messages and a different subset of server devices. The device may determine to scale a quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices. The quantity of server devices may be scaled to increase the quantity of server devices or to decrease the quantity of server devices. The device may provide a set of instructions to scale the quantity of server devices. The device may perform an action to facilitate accessibility of data related to processing of the set of event messages.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, a set of event messages to be processed by a set of server devices, wherein the set of event messages are stored in a set of queues; determining, by the device, values for a set of metrics related to processing the set of event messages; determining, by the device, to modify a quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices based on the values for the set of metrics; providing, by the device, a set of instructions to modify the quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices; and providing, by the device, information related to at least one of the values for the set of metrics, the set of server devices, or the processing of the set of event messages.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the information to a particular queue, of the set of queues, to provide one or more modules with accessibility to the information, the one or more modules being associated with at least one of: a machine learning technique, a threat detection technique, or a fault detection technique.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each queue of the set of queues is associated with a different subset of event messages and a different subset of server devices.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a subset of server devices is scaled based on the values for a set of metrics, associated with the subset of server devices, meeting a threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the set of instructions comprises at least one of: providing the set of instructions to a set of additional server devices to cause the set of additional server devices to power on, or providing the set of instructions to one or more server devices in the set of server devices to cause the one or more server devices to power off.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the information is presented via a dashboard, associated with a user device, that is accessible based on providing the set of instructions.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a notification for display in association with providing the set of instructions, wherein the notification includes information identifying that the quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices is being scaled.
8. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: receive a set of event messages to be processed by a set of server devices; assign each of the set of event messages to a set of queues to prepare the set of event messages for processing by the set of server devices; determine values for a set of metrics related to processing the set of event messages; determine to scale a quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices based on the values for the set of metrics; and provide a set of instructions to modify the quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: provide information related to at least one of the values for the set of metrics, the set of server devices, or the processing of the set of event messages.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein each queue of the set of queues is associated with a different subset of event messages and a different subset of server devices.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein a subset of server devices is scaled based on the values for a set of metrics, associated with the subset of server devices, meeting a threshold.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when providing the set of instructions, are configured to: provide the set of instructions to cause one or more additional server devices to process the set of event messages for a particular queue of the set of queues.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when providing the set of instructions, are configured to: provide the set of instructions to cause one or more additional server devices to power on and process the set of event messages for a particular queue of the set of queues.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: provide a notification for display in association with providing the set of instructions, wherein the notification includes information identifying that the quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices is being scaled.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a set of event messages to be processed by a set of server devices; determine values for a set of metrics related to processing the set of event messages being processed, by the set of server devices, from a set of queues, the values for the set of metrics being determined as the set of event messages are being processed; determine to scale a quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices based on the values for the set of metrics; provide a set of instructions to modify the quantity of server devices included in the set of server devices; and provide information related to at least one of the values for the set of metrics, the set of server devices, or the processing of the set of event messages.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: perform an action to facilitate accessibility of data related to the processing of the set of event messages; and provide the data to a particular queue, of the set of queues, to provide one or more modules with accessibility to the data, the one or more modules being associated with to at least one of: a machine learning technique, a threat detection technique, or a fault detection technique.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: process the data to detect a threat to a system after providing the data to facilitate accessibility of the data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine a score for each metric, of the set of metrics, based on at least one of: each metric satisfying a threshold, each metric being within a threshold amount of a historical average value, or each metric being within a threshold amount of an expected value; and utilize the score to determine whether to scale the quantity of server devices.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to providing the set of instructions, cause the one or more processors: provide the set of instructions to cause one or more additional server devices to power on or to power down the one or more additional servers.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the information is presented via a dashboard, associated with a user device, that is accessible based on providing the set of instructions.
</claims>
</document>
