<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/723,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
TEDALDI, DAVID
Mermoud, Grégory
Savalle, Pierre-Andre
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73551078
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION AND RESOLUTION OF RULE CONFLICTS IN DEVICE CLASSIFICATION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a service receives a plurality of device type classification rules, each rule comprising a device type label and one or more device attributes used as criteria for application of the label to a device in a network. The service estimates, across a space of the device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space. The service uses the estimated device densities to identify two or more of the device type classification rules as having overlapping device attributes. The service determines that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels. The service generates a rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a service, a plurality of device type classification rules, each rule comprising a device type label and one or more device attributes used as criteria for application of the label to a device in a network; estimating, by the service and across a space of the device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space; using, by the service, the estimated device densities to identify two or more of the device type classification rules as having overlapping device attributes; determining, by the service, that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels; and generating, by the service, a rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device type labels are indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the service receives the plurality of device type classification rules from a plurality of device classification services located in different networks.
4. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: assigning a reliability score to each source of the conflicting two or more rules based on a proportion of conflicting rules associated with that source; and selecting one of the device type labels for inclusion in the rule conflict resolution based in part on the reliability scores associated with the sources of the conflicting two or more rules.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein determining that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels, comprises: determining whether the device type labels of the two or more are hierarchically organized.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein determining that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels, comprises: determining whether the device type labels are analogs of one another.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein estimating, by the service and across the space of device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space comprises: maintaining a set of support points in the space of device attributes that represent specific classes of devices.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein generating, by the service, the rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules comprises: determining that the service cannot resolve the conflicting two or more device type classification rules; and obtaining rule conflict resolution input from one or more user interfaces regarding the conflicting two or more rules.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with one or more networks; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: receive a plurality of device type classification rules, each rule comprising a device type label and one or more device attributes used as criteria for application of the label to a device in a network; estimate, across a space of the device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space; use the estimated device densities to identify two or more of the device type classification rules as having overlapping device attributes; determine that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels; and generate a rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the device type labels are indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus receives the plurality of device type classification rules from a plurality of device classification services located in different networks.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: assign a reliability score to each source of the conflicting two or more rules based on a proportion of conflicting rules associated with that source; and select one of the device type labels for inclusion in the rule conflict resolution based in part on the reliability scores associated with the sources of the conflicting two or more rules.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus determines that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels, by: determining whether the device type labels of the two or more are hierarchically organized.
14. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus determines that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels, by: determining whether the device type labels are analogs of one another.
15. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus estimates, across the space of device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space comprises: maintaining a set of support points in the space of device attributes that represent specific classes of devices.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus generates the rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules by: determining that the apparatus cannot resolve the conflicting two or more device type classification rules; and obtaining rule conflict resolution input from one or more user interfaces regarding the conflicting two or more rules.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a service to execute a process comprising: receiving, at the service, a plurality of device type classification rules, each rule comprising a device type label and one or more device attributes used as criteria for application of the label to a device in a network; estimating, by the service and across a space of the device attributes, device densities of devices having device attributes at different points in that space; using, by the service, the estimated device densities to identify two or more of the device type classification rules as having overlapping device attributes; determining, by the service, that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels; and generating, by the service, a rule conflict resolution that comprises one of the device type labels from the conflicting two or more device type classification rules.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the device type labels are indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the process further comprises: assigning a reliability score to each source of the conflicting two or more rules based on a proportion of conflicting rules associated with that source; and selecting one of the device type labels for inclusion in the rule conflict resolution based in part on the reliability scores associated with the sources of the conflicting two or more rules.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein determining that the two or more device type classification rules are in conflict, based on the two or more rules having different device type labels, comprises: determining whether the device type labels of the two or more are hierarchically organized.
</claims>
</document>
