<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E05F15/77,G07C9/00,H04W4/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CHAMBERLAIN GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUKAS, EDWARD JAMES
KHAMHARN, ODDY
HOPKINS, GARTH WESLEY
MILLER, MARK EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101790
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IN-VEHICLE DEVICE FOR CONTROLLING A MOVABLE BARRIER OPERATOR
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, an in-vehicle device is provided that includes a sensor configured to detect a vehicle characteristic indicative of the vehicle being in proximity to a location associated with a movable barrier operator. The in-vehicle device includes communication circuitry to communicate an open command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to open a movable barrier connected to the movable barrier operator. A memory is configured to store a vehicle arrival condition indicative of whether the vehicle arrived at the location associated with the movable barrier operator. A processor is configured to determine satisfaction of the vehicle arrival condition and, upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied, cause the communication circuitry to communicate a close command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to close the movable barrier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An in-vehicle device for facilitating operation of a movable barrier operator, the in-vehicle device comprising: a sensor configured to detect a vehicle characteristic indicative of a vehicle being in proximity to a location associated with the movable barrier operator; communication circuitry to communicate an open command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to open a movable barrier connected to the movable barrier operator; a memory configured to store a vehicle arrival condition indicative of whether the vehicle arrives at the location associated with the movable barrier operator; and a processor operatively coupled to the sensor, communication circuitry, and the memory, the processor configured to determine satisfaction of the vehicle arrival condition and, upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied, cause the communication circuitry to communicate a close command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to close the movable barrier that was previously opened in response to the communication of the open command.
2. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the memory is configured to store a time period and, upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied within the time period, the processor is further configured to cause the communication circuitry to communicate the close command to the movable barrier operator.
3. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the communication circuitry is configured to communicate the open command directly to the movable barrier operator using a radio frequency signal; and wherein the processor is configured to cause the communication circuitry to communicate the close command to the movable barrier operator via a network and a server computer.
4. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the communication circuitry is configured to receive data indicative of a position of the movable barrier from a server computer; and wherein the processor is configured to cause the communication circuitry to communicate the close command to the movable barrier operator upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied and the data received from the server computer indicating the position of the movable barrier is an open position.
5. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the memory is configured to store a movable barrier position; and wherein the processor is configured to cause the communication circuitry to refrain from communicating the open command upon the movable barrier position stored in the memory indicating that the movable barrier is open.
6. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the memory is capable of storing geofence data representative of a geofenced area; wherein the processor is configured to utilize data from the sensor to determine a location of the vehicle; and wherein the processor is configured to determine that the vehicle is in proximity to the location associated with the movable barrier operator in response to the vehicle entering the geofenced area.
7. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the sensor includes a global navigation satellite system receiver; wherein the processor is configured to determine whether the vehicle arrives at the location associated with the movable barrier operator using data from the global navigation satellite system receiver; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle arrives at the location associated with the movable barrier operator.
8. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the memory is configured to store a vehicle parking routine; wherein the processor is configured to receive data from the sensor regarding movement of the vehicle upon the vehicle being in proximity to the location associated with the movable barrier operator; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle movement corresponds to the vehicle parking routine.
9. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 further comprising a user interface capable of receiving a user input indicative of a vehicle destination; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle destination corresponds to the location associated with the movable barrier operator.
10. The in-vehicle device of claim 1 wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes at least one of: whether a distance of the vehicle from the location corresponds to an expected distance; whether a speed of the vehicle corresponds to an expected speed; and whether a heading of the vehicle corresponds to an expected heading.
11. A method of operating an in-vehicle device, the method comprising: detecting a vehicle characteristic indicative of a vehicle being in proximity to a location associated with a movable barrier operator; communicating, via communication circuitry of the in-vehicle device, an open command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to open a movable barrier connected to the movable barrier operator; determining, via a processor of the in-vehicle device, satisfaction of a vehicle arrival condition indicative of whether the vehicle arrived at the location associated with the movable barrier operator; and upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied, the communication circuitry communicating a close command to the movable barrier operator that causes the movable barrier operator to close the movable barrier that was previously opened in response to the communication of the open command.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising monitoring a time period associated with communication of the open command to the movable barrier operator; and wherein the communication circuitry communicating the close command to the movable barrier operator includes the communication circuitry communicating the close command upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied within the time period.
13. The method of claim 11 wherein communicating the open command to the movable barrier operator via the communication circuitry of the in-vehicle device includes the communication circuitry communicating the open command directly to the movable barrier operator using a radio frequency signal; and wherein the communication circuitry communicating the close command to the movable barrier operator includes communicating the close command to the movable barrier operator via a network and a server computer.
14. The method of claim 11 further comprising receiving, via the communication circuitry, data indicative of a position of the movable barrier from a server computer; and wherein the communication circuitry communicating the close command to the movable barrier operator includes the communication circuitry communicating the close command upon the vehicle arrival condition not being satisfied and the data received from the server computer indicating the position of the movable barrier is an open position.
15. The method of claim 11 further comprising storing, at a memory of the in-vehicle device, a position of the movable barrier; and causing the communication circuitry to refrain from communicating the open command upon the movable barrier position stored in the memory indicating that the movable barrier is open.
16. The method of claim 11 further comprising: storing, in a memory of the in-vehicle device, geofence data representative of a geofenced area; determining a location of the vehicle using data from the sensor; determining, via the processor of the in-vehicle device, the vehicle is in proximity to the location associated with the movable barrier operator in response to the vehicle entering the geofenced area.
17. The method of claim 11 further comprising: receiving, at the sensor, data from a global navigation satellite system; determining, via the processor, whether the vehicle arrived at the location associated with the movable barrier operator; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle arrived at the location associated with the movable barrier operator.
18. The method of claim 11 further comprising: storing a vehicle parking routine in a memory of the in-vehicle device; monitoring movement of the vehicle upon the vehicle being in proximity to the location associated with the movable barrier operator; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle movement corresponds to the vehicle parking routine.
19. The method of claim 11 further comprising: receiving, at a user interface of the in-vehicle device, a user input indicative of a vehicle destination; and wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes whether the vehicle destination corresponds to the location associated with the movable barrier operator.
20. The method of claim 11 wherein the vehicle arrival condition includes at least one of: whether a distance of the vehicle from the location corresponds to an expected distance; whether a speed of the vehicle corresponds to an expected speed; and whether a heading of the vehicle corresponds to an expected heading.
21. 21-32. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
