<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W4/029,H04W4/12,H04W4/20,H04W4/40,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, YONG SOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68068654
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROCESSING VEHICLE TO EVERYTHING (V2X) MESSAGE
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method and device for identifying information included in a first V2X message and generating a second V2X message based on the first V2X message and information acquired through a sensor. At least one of a vehicle, a device, and an autonomous vehicle of the present disclosure may be associated with an artificial intelligence (AI) module, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, and a device related to a 5G service, for example.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing a vehicle to everything (V2X) message in a first device, the method comprising: receiving a first V2X message from a second device; identifying information included in the first V2X message; generating a second V2X message using information acquired through a sensor and the first V2X message based on the identifying; and transmitting the second V2X message to the second device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying comprises: identifying information to be changed or information to be added in the first V2X message and the generating comprises: generating, when the identified information is to be acquired through the sensor, the second V2X message by correcting the first V2X message based on the information acquired through the sensor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying comprises: identifying first information associated with at least one of a position, a velocity, and a size of the second device included in the first V2X message, the generating comprises: acquiring second information associated with at least one of a position, a velocity, and a size of the second device through the sensor; and generating the second V2X message by changing the first information to the second information in the first V2X message.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second device identifies the second information of the second V2X message and updates information associated with at least one of a position, a velocity, and a size of the second device stored in a database.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving comprises: receiving the first V2X message from the second device when the second device enters a predetermined region, the identifying comprises: identifying the first V2X message in which information on a route of the second device is absent, and the generating comprises: acquiring the information on the route of the second device through the sensor; and generating the second V2X message by adding the acquired information on the route of the second device to the first V2X message.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving condition information associated with the first V2X message from the second device, wherein the generating comprises: generating, when the first device corresponds to the condition information, the second V2X message by correcting the first V2X message based on the information acquired through the sensor.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the transmitting comprises: transmitting the first V2X message to the second device when the first device does not correspond to the condition information.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the condition information includes at least one of information on whether a device includes a predetermined sensor, information on a type of a device, information on a position of a device, and information on whether a device has an authority to correct a V2X message.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the second device identifies information changed in the second V2X message in comparison to the first V2X message and transmits a third V2X message including the changed information to the first device.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the second V2X message to a third device receiving the first V2X message, wherein the third device operates based on the second V2X message when at least a portion of the information included in the first V2X message is changed.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first V2X message includes information for identifying the first V2X message and the second V2X message includes at least one of information for identifying the first V2X message and information for indicating information included in the second V2X message.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the first V2X message is received on a first channel and the second V2X message is transmitted on a second channel.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the first device and the second device is at least one of a vehicle, a user terminal, an infrastructure, and a server.
14. A method of processing a vehicle to everything (V2X) message, the method comprising: receiving, by a first device, a first V2X message from a second device; identifying, by the first device, information included in the first V2X message; generating, by the first device, a second V2X message using information acquired through a sensor and the first V2X message based on the identifying; transmitting, by the first device, the second V2X message to the second device; and operating the second device based on the second V2X message.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the identifying comprises: identifying information to be changed or information to be added in the first V2X message and the generating comprises: generating, when the identified information is to be acquired through the sensor, the second V2X message by correcting the first V2X message based on the information acquired through the sensor.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the operating comprises: identifying information changed in the second V2X message in comparison to the first V2X message and updating a database based on the changed information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the operating comprises: transmitting a third V2X message including the changed information to the first device.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, by a third device, the first V2X message from the second device; receiving, by the third device, the second V2X message from the first device; and operating the third device based on the second V2X message when at least a portion of the information included in the first V2X message is changed in the second V2X message.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing programs to execute the method of claim 1.
20. A device for processing a vehicle to everything (V2X) message, the device comprising: a communicator; and a controller configured to receive a first V2X message from another device through the communicator, identify information included in the first V2X message, generate a second V2X message using information acquired through a sensor and the first V2X message based on the identifying, and transmit the second V2X message to the other device through the communicator.
</claims>
</document>
