<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47L9/28,B25J11/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, JAE HONG
KIM, HYO EUN
CHOI, HEEYEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67949952
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT CLEANER FOR PERFORMING CLEANING USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE AND METHOD OF OPERATING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
A robot cleaner for performing cleaning using artificial intelligence includes a suction unit configured to suction dust, a driving unit to drive the robot cleaner, a memory configured to store a compensation model for inferring optimal suction output and driving output for cleaning environment information for learning, and a processor configured to acquire cleaning environment information, determine a suction output value and a driving speed of the robot cleaner from the acquired cleaning environment information using the compensation model, control the suction unit to suction the dust with the determined suction output value, and control the driving unit to drive the robot cleaner at the determined driving speed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robot cleaner for performing cleaning using artificial intelligence, the robot cleaner comprising: a suction unit configured to suction dust; a driving unit to drive the robot cleaner; a memory configured to store a compensation model for inferring optimal suction output and driving output for cleaning environment information for learning; and a processor configured to: acquire cleaning environment information, determine a suction output value and a driving speed of the robot cleaner from the acquired cleaning environment information using the compensation model, control the suction unit to suction the dust with the determined suction output value, and control the driving unit to drive the robot cleaner at the determined driving speed.
2. The robot cleaner of 1, wherein the cleaning environment information includes a type of a floor, a space environment, cleanliness of the floor and a charge state of a battery provided in the robot cleaner.
3. The robot cleaner of 2, wherein the compensation model is an artificial neural network based model subjected to reinforcement learning through a deep learning algorithm or a machine learning algorithm, and wherein the reinforcement learning is performed by a Markov Decision process.
4. The robot cleaner of 3, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire the suction output value and the driving speed as an output result of the compensation model from the cleaning environment information for learning, measure a cleaning time and cleanliness when the robot cleaner performs cleaning with respect to a specific area, with the acquired suction output value and driving speed, and gives a reward or a penalty to the compensation model according to the measured cleaning time and cleanliness.
5. The robot cleaner of 4, wherein the processor is configured to: give a reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than a threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than reference cleanliness, and give a penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness.
6. The robot cleaner of 4, wherein the processor is configured to: give a first reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than the threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than the reference cleanliness, give a second reward less than the first reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than the reference cleanliness, give a first penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness, and give a second penalty greater than the first penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness.
7. The robot cleaner of 1, wherein the processor is configured to: apply current or voltage which is the determined suction output value to a suction motor provided in the suction unit, and apply current or voltage corresponding to the determined driving speed to a driving motor provided in the driving unit.
8. The robot cleaner of 2, wherein the processor is configured to: determine the type of the floor using an image recognition model subjected to supervised learning through a deep learning algorithm or a machine learning algorithm.
9. The robot cleaner of 8, further comprising a dust sensor, wherein the processor is configured to measure the cleanliness of the floor based on a dust concentration measured through the dust sensor.
10. The robot cleaner of 2, wherein the charge state of the battery provided in the robot cleaner is any one of a charge amount or a discharge amount of the battery.
11. A method of operating a robot cleaner for performing cleaning using artificial intelligence, the method comprising: acquiring cleaning environment information, determining a suction output value and a driving speed of the robot cleaner from the acquired cleaning environment information using a compensation model for inferring optimal suction output and driving output, controlling a suction unit of the robot cleaner to suction the dust with the determined suction output value, and controlling a driving unit of the robot cleaner to drive the robot cleaner at the determined driving speed.
12. The method of 11, wherein the cleaning environment information includes a type of a floor, a space environment, cleanliness of the floor and a charge state of a battery provided in the robot cleaner.
13. The method of 12, wherein the compensation model is an artificial neural network based model subjected to reinforcement learning through a deep learning algorithm or a machine learning algorithm, and wherein the reinforcement learning is performed by a Markov Decision process.
14. The method of 13, further comprising: acquiring the suction output value and the driving speed as an output result of the compensation model from cleaning environment information for learning, measuring a cleaning time and cleanliness when the robot cleaner performs cleaning with respect to a specific area, with the acquired suction output value and driving speed, and giving a reward or a penalty to the compensation model according to the measured cleaning time and cleanliness.
15. The method of 14, wherein the giving includes: giving a reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than a threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than reference cleanliness, and giving a penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness.
16. The method of 14, wherein the giving of the reward includes: giving a first reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than the threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than the reference cleanliness, and giving a second reward less than the first reward to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is equal to or greater than the reference cleanliness, and wherein the giving of the penalty includes: giving a first penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is less than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness, and giving a second penalty greater than the first penalty to the compensation model when the measured cleaning time is equal to or greater than the threshold time and the cleanliness is less than the reference cleanliness.
17. The method of 11, wherein the controlling of the suction unit includes applying current or voltage which is the determined suction output value to a suction motor provided in the suction unit, and wherein the controlling of the driving unit includes applying current or voltage corresponding to the determined driving speed to a driving motor provided in the driving unit.
18. The method of 12, wherein the type of the floor is determined using an image recognition model subjected to supervised learning through a deep learning algorithm or a machine learning algorithm.
19. The method of 12, wherein the cleanliness of the floor is measured based on a dust concentration measured through a dust sensor.
20. The method of 12, wherein the charge state of the battery provided in the robot cleaner is any one of a charge amount or a discharge amount of the battery.
</claims>
</document>
