<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CUJO
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRAYMAN, YURI
BEATTY, ROBERT
VON GRAVROCK, EINARAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57146959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network Security Analysis for Smart Appliances
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for detecting malicious behavior from smart appliances within a network. Smart appliances have a certain level of intelligence that allows them to perform a specific role more effectively and conveniently. Network traffic data and identification data is collected about smart appliances within a network. The data is sent to a behavior analysis engine, which computes confidence levels for anomalies within the network traffic that may be caused by malicious behavior. If the behavior analysis engine determines that malicious behavior is present in the network, it sends an instruction to a network traffic hub to block network traffic relating to the anomaly. In some embodiments, network traffic is blocked based on source-destination pairs. In some embodiments, network traffic is blocked from a device outside the network that is determined to be malicious.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving network traffic data from a network traffic hub within a local network, the network traffic hub configured to aggregate intercepted network traffic; receiving identification data from the network traffic hub identifying a smart appliance on the local network and identifying a current internet address for the smart appliance on the local network; computing, for the smart appliance, a score comprising a numeric confidence value representing a probability that the smart appliance is performing a malicious behavior and based on historic network traffic data and identification data associated with a different smart appliance performing malicious behavior; and in response to the numeric confidence value exceeding a threshold, blocking subsequent network traffic being sent by or to the smart appliance and sending a notification to a user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the network traffic hub, software that is being downloaded by the smart appliance; determining that the software is malicious; and transmitting an instruction to the network traffic hub to block network traffic associated with the software.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the historic network traffic data is received over a threshold period of time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the score is additionally computed using threat intel data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification contains information about a source address or a destination internet address associated with the blocked network traffic.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the numeric confidence value being less than the threshold but greater than a second threshold, adding the smart appliance to a security watchlist and alerting an operator associated with the network traffic hub of the smart appliance and/or the computed score.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the score is additionally computed based on one or more of: a time interval associated with features of the network traffic data or the identification data, a location for smart appliance behavior that may be falsely determined to be malicious, and a timeframe for a software update.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable computer instructions that, when executed by a hardware processor, cause the hardware processor to perform steps comprising: receiving network traffic data from a network traffic hub within a local network, the network traffic hub configured to aggregate intercepted network traffic; receiving identification data from the network traffic hub identifying a smart appliance on the local network and identifying a current internet address for the smart appliance on the local network; computing, for the smart appliance, a score comprising a numeric confidence value representing a probability that the smart appliance is performing a malicious behavior and based on historic network traffic data and identification data associated with a different smart appliance performing malicious behavior; and in response to the numeric confidence value exceeding a threshold, blocking subsequent network traffic being sent by or to the smart appliance and sending a notification to a user.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to perform further steps comprising: receiving, from the network traffic hub, software that is being downloaded by the smart appliance; determining that the software is malicious; and transmitting an instruction to the network traffic hub to block network traffic associated with the software.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the historic network traffic data is received over a threshold period of time.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the score is additionally computed using threat intel data.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the notification contains information about a source address or a destination internet address associated with the blocked network traffic.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to perform further steps comprising: in response to the numeric confidence value being less than the threshold but greater than a second threshold, adding the smart appliance to a security watchlist and alerting an operator associated with the network traffic hub of the smart appliance and/or the computed score.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the score is additionally computed based on one or more of: a time interval associated with features of the network traffic data or the identification data, a location for smart appliance behavior that may be falsely determined to be malicious, and a timeframe for a software update.
15. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable instructions that, when executed, cause the system to perform steps comprising: receiving network traffic data from a network traffic hub within a local network, the network traffic hub configured to aggregate intercepted network traffic; receiving identification data from the network traffic hub identifying a smart appliance on the local network and identifying a current internet address for the smart appliance on the local network; computing, for the smart appliance, a score comprising a numeric confidence value representing a probability that the smart appliance is performing a malicious behavior and based on historic network traffic data and identification data associated with a different smart appliance performing malicious behavior; and in response to the numeric confidence value exceeding a threshold, blocking subsequent network traffic being sent by or to the smart appliance and sending a notification to a user; and a processor configured to execute the instructions.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform further steps comprising: receiving, from the network traffic hub, software that is being downloaded by the smart appliance; determining that the software is malicious; and transmitting an instruction to the network traffic hub to block network traffic associated with the software.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the historic network traffic data is received over a threshold period of time.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the score is additionally computed using threat intel data.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the notification contains information about a source address or a destination internet address associated with the blocked network traffic.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform further steps comprising: in response to the numeric confidence value being less than the threshold but greater than a second threshold, adding the smart appliance to a security watchlist and alerting an operator associated with the network traffic hub of the smart appliance and/or the computed score.
</claims>
</document>
