<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-02-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/16,G10L21/0224,G10L21/0232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOPATKA, KUBA
KUPRYJANOW, ADAM
SZMELCZYNSKI, TOMASZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971079
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NOISE REDUCTION USING SPECIFIC DISTURBANCE MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
An example apparatus for reducing noise in audio includes a preprocessor to receive audio input from a microphone and preprocess the audio input to generate preprocessed audio. The apparatus also includes an acoustic event detector to detect an acoustic event corresponding to a disturbance in the preprocessed audio. The apparatus further includes a noise reduction model selector to select a specific disturbance model based the detected acoustic event. The apparatus further includes a noise suppressor to attenuate components related to the disturbance in the preprocessed audio using the selected specific disturbance model to generate an enhanced audio with suppressed noise.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for reducing noise in audio, comprising: a preprocessor to receive audio input from a microphone and preprocess the audio input to generate preprocessed audio; an acoustic event detector to detect an acoustic event corresponding to a disturbance in the preprocessed audio; a noise reduction model selector to select a specific disturbance model based the detected acoustic event; and a noise suppressor to attenuate components related to the disturbance in the preprocessed audio using the selected specific disturbance model to generate an enhanced audio with suppressed noise.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a switch to output the enhanced audio in response to detecting the acoustic event and output the preprocessed audio in response to detecting no acoustic event in the preprocessed audio.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the noise suppressor comprises a deep recurrent neural network with a recurrent layer.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the noise suppressor comprises a neural network trained to infer a speech time-frequency mask.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the noise suppressor comprises a neural network comprising a skip connection between an input of the neural network and a last layer of the neural network.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the noise suppressor comprises a neural network trained to infer a disturbance time-frequency mask.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the acoustic event detector comprises a neural network-based spectral speech enhancement.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the acoustic event detector comprises an auto-encoder to perform a network-based time domain speech enhancement.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the acoustic event detector comprises a frontend to compute filterbank features in the frequency domain, a deep neural network, and a backend.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, acoustic event detector comprises a neural network classifier with convolutional layers.
11. A method for reducing noise in audio, comprising: receiving, via a processor, audio input from a microphone; preprocessing, via the processor, the audio input to generate preprocessed audio; detecting, via the processor, an acoustic event corresponding to a disturbance in the preprocessed audio; selecting, via the processor, a specific disturbance model based the detected acoustic event; attenuating, via the processor, components related to the disturbance in the preprocessed audio using the selected specific disturbance model to generate an enhanced audio with suppressed noise; and outputting, via the processor, the enhanced audio.
12. The method of claim 11, comprising iteratively selecting additional specific disturbance models based on a detected additional disturbances in response to detecting the additional disturbances in the preprocessed audio or the enhanced audio.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein outputting the enhanced audio comprises detecting no additional disturbance in the preprocessed audio and outputting the enhanced audio in response to detecting no additional disturbance.
14. The method of claim 11, comprising outputting the preprocessed audio in response to detecting no disturbance in the preprocessed audio.
15. The method of claim 11, comprising adjusting an intensity of the attenuation in response to detecting a knob adjustment to preserve more speech or eliminate more noise.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein attenuating the components related to the disturbance comprises processing the preprocessed audio via a trained deep recurrent neural network.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein attenuating the components related to the disturbance comprises applying an inferred time-frequency mask to the preprocessed audio.
18. The method of claim 11, comprising generating comfort noise and adding the comfort noise to the enhanced audio to cover imperfections in a mask of the specific disturbance model.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein preprocessing the audio input comprises applying a general time-frequency mask (TFM) speech model.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein preprocessing the audio input comprises performing gain, DC removal, and beamforming of the audio input, wherein the audio input is received from a plurality of microphones.
21. At least one computer readable medium for reducing noise in audio having instructions stored therein that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive audio input from a microphone and preprocess the audio input to generate preprocessed audio; detect an acoustic event corresponding to a disturbance in the preprocessed audio; select a specific disturbance model based the detected acoustic event; and attenuate components related to the disturbance in the preprocessed audio using the selected specific disturbance model to generate an enhanced audio with suppressed noise.
22. The at least one computer readable medium of claim 21, comprising instructions that cause the processor to iteratively select additional specific disturbance models based on a detected additional disturbance in response to detecting the additional disturbances in the preprocessed audio.
23. The at least one computer readable medium of claim 21, comprising instructions that cause the processor to output the enhanced audio in response to detecting no additional disturbance in the preprocessed audio.
24. The at least one computer readable medium of claim 21, comprising instructions that cause the processor to output the preprocessed audio in response to detecting no disturbance in the preprocessed audio.
25. The at least one computer readable medium of claim 21, comprising instructions that cause the processor to adjust an intensity of the attenuation in response to detecting a knob adjustment to preserve more speech or eliminate more noise.
</claims>
</document>
