<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L13/04,G10L13/047
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAE, JIN WAN
KANG, MINJEONG
LEE, YOUJIN
PARK, YOUNG JOON
WON, HYO JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67763957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT TEXT TO SPEECH PROVIDING METHOD AND INTELLIGENT COMPUTING DEVICE FOR PROVIDING TTS
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligent TTS providing method and an intelligent computing device providing TTS are disclosed. An intelligent TTS providing method according to an embodiment of the present disclosure can seamlessly provide continuous TTS by receiving a text read command, adjusting a photographing angle of a camera such that a position of an object on which text is written is included in the photographing angle, photographing the object, converting the text written on the object into a speech and outputting the speech. One or more of the intelligent computing device and artificial intelligent speaker of the present disclosure can be associated with artificial intelligence (AI) modules, unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) robots, augmented reality (AR) devices, virtual reality (VR) devices, 5G service related devices, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intelligent TTS providing method, comprising: receiving a text read command; adjusting a photographing angle of a camera such that a position of an object on which text is written is included in the photographing angle of the camera; photographing the object using the camera; and converting the text written on the photographed object into a speech and outputting the speech.
2. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, further comprising readjusting the photographing angle of the camera such that the center of the photographing angle of the camera is directed to a second part of the text from a first part of the text before the second part of the text is converted into a speech after the first part of the text is converted into a speech and output.
3. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, further comprising: readjusting the photographing angle of the camera in a direction opposite a movement direction of the intelligent computing device when movement of the intelligent computing device is detected; and readjusting the photographing angle of the camera in the same direction as a movement direction of the object when movement of the object is detected.
4. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring use history data per user; and providing information on a recommended book per user.
5. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 4, wherein the acquiring of the use history data per user comprises: acquiring written documents per user; and acquiring the use history data per user on the basis of the written documents per user.
6. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 5, wherein the use history data per user includes data related to audio provision command use history per user and conversation history per user.
7. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 4, wherein the providing of the information on a recommended book per user comprises: extracting feature values from the use history data per user; inputting the feature values to a previously learned deep learning model; and acquiring the information on a recommended book per user on the basis of output of the deep learning model.
8. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, from a network, downlink control information (DCI) used to schedule transmission of the use history data per user, wherein the use history data per user is transmitted to the network on the basis of the DCI.
9. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 8, further comprising performing an initial access procedure with the network on the basis of a synchronization signal block (SSB), wherein the use history data per user is transmitted to the network over a PUSCH, and the SSB and a DM-RS of the PUSCH are QCLed for QCL type D.
10. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 8, further comprising: controlling a transceiver to transmit the use history data per user to an AI processor included in the network; and controlling the transceiver to receive AI-processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI-processed information is the information on a recommended book per user.
11. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, wherein the converting of the text into a speech and outputting the speech comprises converting the text through a different conversion mode from a conventional conversion mode when a command for reading the same text is received a critical number of times or more.
12. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 11, wherein the different conversion mode includes the intonation or speed of a speech converted from the text.
13. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 1, further comprising outputting audio associated with the object photographed by the camera.
14. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 13, wherein the outputting of audio associated with the object comprises outputting a result of analysis of an image when the object is the image.
15. The intelligent TTS providing method of claim 13, wherein the outputting of audio associated with the object comprises outputting an onomatopoeic word related to text when the object is the text.
16. An intelligent computing device providing TTS, comprising: a transceiver included in the intelligent computing device; a speaker; a camera; an angle controller for adjusting a photographing angle of the camera; a processor; and a memory including a command executable by the processor, wherein the command controls the intelligent computing device configured: to receive a text read command through the transceiver; to adjust a photographing angle of the camera such that a position of an object on which text is written is included in the photographing angle of the camera through the angle controller; to photograph the object using the camera; and to convert the text written on the photographed object into a speech and output the speech through the speaker.
17. The intelligent computing device of claim 16, wherein the processor readjusts the photographing angle of the camera such that the center of the photographing angle of the camera is directed to a second part of the text from a first part of the text before the second part of the text is converted into a speech after the first part of the text is converted into a speech and output.
18. The intelligent computing device of claim 16, wherein the processor readjusts the photographing angle of the camera in a direction opposite a movement direction of the intelligent computing device when movement of the intelligent computing device is detected and readjusts the photographing angle of the camera in the same direction as a movement direction of the object when movement of the object is detected.
19. The intelligent computing device of claim 16, wherein the processor acquires use history data per user and provides information on a recommended book per user.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a computer-executable component configured to be executed by one or more processors of a computing device, wherein the computer-executable component is configured: to receive a text read command; to adjust a photographing angle of a camera such that a position of an object on which text is written is included in the photographing angle of the camera; to photograph the object; and to convert the text written on the photographed object into a speech and output the speech.
</claims>
</document>
