<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TYTO CARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BYCHKOV, EYAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE MEDICAL EXAMINATION SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A medical data acquisition device comprising processing circuitry and one or more medical data acquisition sensors, the processing circuitry configured to: receive a plurality of continuous sections of physiological data acquired by at least one of the medical data acquisition sensors; analyze each received section of physiological data to determine a usability indicator indicating if the received section is usable for diagnosis of a medical condition of the patient or not; identify a subset of the continuous sections, wherein (a) the subset includes at least one of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, (b) the subset does not include at least one of the sections associated with a respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is not usable for diagnosis; and send, to a remote medical practitioner workstation, the identified subset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical data acquisition device comprising processing circuitry and one or more medical data acquisition sensors, the processing circuitry configured to: receive, during a non-instantaneous physiological measurement of a patient, a plurality of continuous sections of physiological data acquired by at least one of the medical data acquisition sensors, each of the sections representing a respective time period of the non-instantaneous physiological measurement; analyze during the non-instantaneous physiological measurement each received section of physiological data to determine a usability indicator indicating if the received section is usable for diagnosis of a medical condition of the patient or not; identify a subset of the continuous sections, wherein (a) the subset includes at least one of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, (b) the subset does not include at least one of the sections associated with a respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is not usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient; and send, to a remote medical practitioner workstation, the identified subset.
2. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein a length of time represented by the subset exceeds a time-length threshold.
3. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the physiological measurement being conducted by a user using a sensor comprised within the handheld diagnosis-device.
4. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the physiological data is obtained during the non-instantaneous physiological measurement conducted at a first geographical location and sent to a second geographical location of the medical practitioner, the second geographical location being remote from the first geographical location.
5. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the subset is identified upon the subset being a continuous subset of the continuous sections having a subset length that exceeds the time-length threshold.
6. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the identified subset includes diagnosis-enabling data.
7. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the continuous sections of physiological data form an uninterrupted flow of physiological data.
8. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the subset of the continuous sections of physiological data forms an uninterrupted flow of physiological data.
9. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the subset of the continuous sections includes one or more pairs of adjacent continuous sections.
10. The medical data acquisition device of claim 1, wherein the subset does not include at least one intermediate section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is not usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, the intermediate section having (a) at least one preceding section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the sections are usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, and (b) at least one succeeding section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the sections are usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient.
11. A method comprising: receiving, by a processing circuitry, during a non-instantaneous physiological measurement of a patient, a plurality of continuous sections of physiological data acquired by at least one medical data acquisition sensors of a medical data acquisition device, each of the sections representing a respective time period of the non-instantaneous physiological measurement; analyzing, by the processing circuitry, during the non-instantaneous physiological measurement each received section of physiological data to determine a usability indicator indicating if the received section is usable for diagnosis of a medical condition of the patient or not; identifying, by the processing circuitry, a subset of the continuous sections, wherein (a) the subset includes at least one of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, (b) the subset does not include at least one of the sections associated with a respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is not usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient; and sending, by the processing circuitry, to a remote medical practitioner workstation, the identified subset.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein a length of time represented by the subset exceeds a time-length threshold.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the physiological measurement being conducted by a user using a sensor comprised within the handheld diagnosis-device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the physiological data is obtained during the non-instantaneous physiological measurement conducted at a first geographical location and sent to a second geographical location of the medical practitioner, the second geographical location being remote from the first geographical location.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the subset is identified upon the subset being a continuous subset of the continuous sections having a subset length that exceeds the time-length threshold.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the identified subset includes diagnosis-enabling data.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the continuous sections of physiological data form an uninterrupted flow of physiological data.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the subset of the continuous sections of physiological data forms an uninterrupted flow of physiological data.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the subset of the continuous sections includes one or more pairs of adjacent continuous sections.
20. The method claim 11, wherein the subset does not include at least one intermediate section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the received section is not usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, the intermediate section having (a) at least one preceding section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the sections are usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient, and (b) at least one succeeding section of the sections associated with the respective usability indicator indicating that the sections are usable for diagnosis of the medical condition of the patient.
</claims>
</document>
