<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/036,G02B27/00,G06F3/01,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EYEBRAIN MEDICAL
EYEBRIAN MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZIMANYI, GERGELY T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335033
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GUIDED LENS DESIGN EXPLORATION SYSTEM FOR A PROGRESSIVE LENS SIMULATOR
</title>

<abstract>
A Progressive Lens Simulator comprises an Eye Tracker, for tracking an eye axis direction to determine a gaze distance, an Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator, for generating an Off-Axis progressive lens simulation; and an Axial Power-Distance Simulator, for simulating a progressive lens power in the eye axis direction. The Progressive Lens Simulator can alternatively include an Integrated Progressive Lens Simulator, for creating a Comprehensive Progressive Lens Simulation. The Progressive Lens Simulator can be Head-mounted. A Guided Lens Design Exploration System for the Progressive Lens Simulator can include a Progressive Lens Simulator, a Feedback-Control Interface, and a Progressive Lens Design processor, to generate a modified progressive lens simulation for the patient after a guided modification of the progressive lens design. A Deep Learning Method for an Artificial Intelligence Engine can be used for a Progressive Lens Design Processor. Embodiments include a multi-station system of Progressive Lens Simulators and a Central Supervision Station.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator, comprising: a Progressive Lens Simulator, for generating a Comprehensive Progressive Lens Simulation utilizing a progressive lens design with Design Factors, from a generated image, for a patient, and receiving a Visual Feedback in response to the Comprehensive Progressive Lens Simulation (PLS); and a Progressive Lens Design processor, coupled to the Progressive Lens Simulator, for modifying the progressive lens design in response to the Visual Feedback, and transmitting the modified progressive lens design to the Progressive Lens Simulator to generate a modified Comprehensive Progressive Lens Simulation for the patient with the modified progressive lens design.
2. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, comprising: a Feedback-Control Interface, coupled to the Progressive Lens Design processor, for receiving the Visual Feedback from an operator, selected from the group consisting of a joystick, a touchpad, a mouse, an audio interface, an external tablet GUI, and an internal visual-interface GUI.
3. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, comprising: an Eye tracker, coupled to the Progressive Lens Design processor, for receiving a Visual Feedback in a form of an objective patient vision measurement.
4. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, wherein the Design Factors comprise at least one of: (a) an optical center; (b) a lens height map; (c) a lens contour map; (d) a progression corridor length; (e) a progression corridor width; (e) a progression pitch; (f) a prism angle; (g) a progressive prism; (h) a cylinder orientation; and (i) a near-vision nasal offset.
5. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, wherein the Visual Feedback comprises at least one of: (a) a subjective patient feedback via a Feedback-Control Interface; (b) an objective patient vision measurement; (c) an eye tracker image/data from an Eye Tracker; (d) a direct patient feedback; (e) an indirect patient feedback; (f) an operator control input; (g) an operator command; (h) an operator response to a proposition; and (i) an operator selection.
6. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, the Progressive Lens Design Processor comprising: a Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine, for the modifying the progressive lens design in response to the Visual Feedback.
7. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 6, wherein: the Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine is configured to utilize a Visual Feedback-to-Design Factor matrix for the modifying the progressive lens design by a Matrix method.
8. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 6, comprising: a Search Guidance Engine, coupled to the Progressive Lens Design Processor, for performing a Search Management step, including at least one of (a) reversing a search path in a Design Factor space; (b) reverting to a preceding bifurcation in a search path in a Design Factor space; (c) jumping to another Design Factor vector; (d) changing a number of the Design Factors; (e) fixing a design factor; (f) changing a speed of performing the method; and (g) evaluating whether search has been successful.
9. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 8, wherein: the Search Guidance Engine is coupled to the Feedback-Controller interface, for performing the Search Management step interactively by (a) proposing to an operator to select a Search Management step; (b) receiving a selection of a Search Management step from the operator; and (c) initiating an execution of the selected Search Management step.
10. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 6, wherein: the Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine is configured to modify the progressive lens design based on the Visual Feedback and on one or more Lens Merit factors, wherein the Lens Merit Factors characterize a merit of the progressive lens design.
11. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 10, the Lens Merit Factors comprising at least one of: (a) an improved visual acuity in one of a near and a far vision region; (b) a reduced astigmatism in one of a near and a far vision region; (c) a reduced swim in one of a near and a far vision region; (d) a reduced blur in one of a near and a far vision region; (e) a suitable progressive region; (f) an alignment of a cylinder; (g) a suitable prism; and (h) a suitable progressive prism.
12. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 10, wherein: the Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine is configured to utilize a Visual Feedback+Lens Merit-to-Design Factor matrix for the modifying the progressive lens design by a Merit-Matrix Method.
13. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 10, wherein: the Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine is configured to modify the progressive lens design by modifying the Design Factor locally in a Design Factor space by utilizing at least one of a gradient descent method, a conjugate descent method, and a hill-climbing method.
14. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 10, wherein: the Visual Feedback-to-Lens Design Transfer Engine is configured to modify the progressive lens design by modifying the Design Factor non-locally in a Design Factor space by utilizing at least one of a simulated annealing, a genetic algorithm, a parallel tempering, a stochastic gradient descent, stochastic jumps, and a sequential Monte Carlo.
15. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 10, comprising: a Search Guidance Engine, coupled to the Progressive Lens Design Processor, for performing a Search Management step, including at least one of (a) reversing a search path in a Design Factor space; (b) reverting to a preceding bifurcation in a search path in a Design Factor space; (c) jumping to another Design Factor vector; (d) changing a number of the Design Factors; (e) fixing a design factor; (f) changing a speed of performing the method; and (g) evaluating whether search has been successful.
16. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 15, wherein: the Search Guidance Engine is coupled to the Feedback-Controller interface, for performing the Search Management step interactively by (a) proposing to an operator to select a Search Management step; (b) receiving a selection of a Search Management step from the operator; and (c) initiating an execution of the selected Search Management step.
17. The Lens Design Exploration System for a Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 15, wherein: the Search Guidance Engine is integrated with the Progressive Lens Design Processor.
18. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 1, the Progressive Lens Simulator comprising: an Eye Tracker, for tracking an eye axis direction to determine a gaze distance; an Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator, for generating an Off-Axis progressive lens simulation (Off-Axis PLS); an Axial Power-Distance Simulator, for simulating a progressive lens power in the eye axis direction, thereby creating a Comprehensive progressive lens simulation from the Off-Axis PLS.
19. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 18, the Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator comprising: an Image Generator, for generating an image; an Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator Processor, for transforming the generated image into an Off-Axis PLS signal; and an Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator Display, for displaying an Off-Axis PLS according to the Off-Axis PLS signal.
20. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 19, wherein: the Off-Axis Progressive Lens Simulator Processor is configured to receive the generated image from the Image Generator; and to transform the generated image into the Off-Axis PLS signal by introducing at least one of a locally varying blur and a locally varying curvature, representative of the progressive lens.
21. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 19, the Progressive Lens Simulator comprising: a Vergence-Distance Simulator, for simulating a vergence for the displayed Off-Axis PLS at the gaze distance.
22. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 19, the Progressive Lens Simulator comprising: a Zoom-Distance Simulator, for zooming the Comprehensive PLS to represent a change in the gaze distance.
23. The Lens Design Exploration System for Progressive Lens Simulator of claim 18, the Axial Power-Distance Simulator comprising: an adjustable optical power system, having an adjustable optical refractive power.
</claims>
</document>
