<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, YUMAO
CAI, WENBIN
PAN, JUN
ZHOU, JIE
FAN, BAOQUAN
DENG, YONGJIAN
SHOU, LINJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62241486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING RECOMMENDED CONTENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus for providing recommended contents. The method comprises: A search query being received; an event being selected from a predetermined event set based on the search query; the recommended contents being provided in a structured template including one or more elements; each element is associated with a feature of the event; each feature of the event corresponds to a search intent. Each element includes one or more sub-contents, and each sub-content is correlated to corresponding recommended contents.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing recommended contents, comprising: receiving a search query; selecting an event from a predetermined event set based on the search query; and providing the recommended contents in a structured template including one or more elements, each element being associated with a feature of the event, each feature of the event corresponding to a search intent, each element including one or more sub-contents, and each sub-content being correlated to corresponding recommended contents.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature of the event is any one of the followings: topic relevant to the event; critical moment of the event; location associated with the event; person involved in the event; dominant subject relevant to the event; representative document from mainstream media; representative message from social network; and multimedia information on the event.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sub-content at least comprises: a key word derived from the corresponding recommended contents; and extracted information obtained from each of the corresponding recommended contents.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the structured template is presented based on a scale of the recommended contents.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the structured template is presented with a color corresponding to a social sentiment on the event.
6. A method for providing recommended contents, comprising: identifying an event based on a plurality of search queries which are spiking within a period; determining one or more features of the event, each feature of the event corresponding to a search intent, the recommended contents being provided in a structured template including one or more elements, each element being associated with a feature of the event, and each element including one or more sub-contents; and correlating each of the sub-contents with corresponding recommended contents.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the feature of the event is any one of the followings: topic relevant to the event; critical moment of the event; location associated with the event; person involved in the event; dominant subject relevant to the event; representative document from mainstream media; representative message from social network; and multimedia information on the event.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the sub-content at least comprises: a key word derived from the corresponding recommended contents; and extracted information obtained from each of the corresponding recommended contents.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the event is identified by a consideration of periodic fluctuation.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the event is identified by a consideration of time-sensitive search queries.
11. An apparatus for providing recommended contents, comprising: a query receiving module, for receiving a search query; an event selecting module, for selecting an event from a predetermined event set based on the search query; and a content providing module, for providing the recommended contents in a structured template including one or more elements, each element being associated with a feature of the event, each feature of the event corresponding to a search intent, each element including one or more sub-contents, and each sub-content being correlated to corresponding recommended contents.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the feature of the event is any one of the followings: topic relevant to the event; critical moment of the event; location associated with the event; person involved in the event; dominant subject relevant to the event; representative document from mainstream media; representative message from social network; and multimedia information on the event.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the sub-content at least comprises: a key word derived from the corresponding recommended contents; and extracted information obtained from each of the corresponding recommended contents.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the structured template is presented based on a scale of the recommended contents.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the structured template is presented with a color corresponding to a social sentiment on the event.
16. An apparatus for providing recommended contents, comprising: an event identifying module, for identifying an event based on a plurality of search queries which are spiking within a period; a feature determining module, for determining one or more features of the event, each feature of the event corresponding to a search intent, the recommended contents being provided in a structured template including one or more elements, each element being associated with a feature of the event, and each element including one or more sub-contents; and a content correlating module, for correlating each of the sub-contents with corresponding recommended contents.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the feature of the event is any one of the followings: topic relevant to the event; critical moment of the event; location associated with the event; person involved in the event; dominant subject relevant to the event; representative document from mainstream media; representative message from social network; and multimedia information on the event.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the sub-content at least comprises: a key word derived from the corresponding recommended contents; and extracted information obtained from each of the corresponding recommended contents.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the event is identified by a consideration of periodic fluctuation.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the event is identified by a consideration of time-sensitive search queries.
</claims>
</document>
