<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01G27/00,A01G7/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Vivent sárl
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARKER, NICHOLAS
Camps, Cedric
Wallbridge, Nigel Christopher
Carroll, Caleb
Dutoit, Fabien
Raileanu, Laura
Plummer, Carrol Annette
Tran, Daniel
Mazzo, Marco
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66381087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and Method for Assessing a Characteristic of a Plant
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method of assessing a characteristic of a plant (2), comprising: obtaining a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises first data characterising a first electrical signal obtained from a first plant during a first time period when a stressor is present in the first plant or a growth environment of the first plant, second data characterising a second electrical signal obtained from the first plant during a second time period when a stressor is not present in the first plant or the growth environment of the first plant, and third data indicative of a characteristic of the first plant during the first time period and a characteristic of the first plant during the second time period; training a machine learning model based upon the training dataset; obtaining a third electrical signal from a second plant; and assessing, using the trained machine learning model, a characteristic of the second plant based upon the third electrical signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-33. (canceled)
34. A method of assessing a characteristic of a plant, comprising: obtaining a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises first data characterising a first electrical signal obtained from a first plant during a first time period when a stressor is present in the first plant or in a growth environment of the first plant, second data characterising a second electrical signal obtained from the first plant during a second time period when a stressor is not present in the first plant or in the growth environment of the first plant, and third data indicative of a characteristic of the first plant during the first time period and a characteristic of the first plant during the second time period; training a machine learning model based upon the training dataset; obtaining a third electrical signal from a second plant; and assessing, using the trained machine learning model, a characteristic of the second plant based upon the third electrical signal.
35. The method of claim 34, wherein obtaining the training dataset comprises: introducing the stressor to the first plant or the growth environment of the first plant; obtaining the first electrical signal from the first plant during the first time period when the stressor is being applied to the first plant or the growth environment of the first plant; and obtaining the second electrical signal from the first plant during the second time period when the stressor is not applied to the first plant or the growth environment of the first plant.
36. The method of claim 34, wherein obtaining the training dataset further comprises: processing the first electrical signal to generate the first data; and processing the second electrical signal to generate the second data.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein processing the first electrical signal to generate the first data comprises: performing signal conditioning on the first electrical signal.
38. The method of claim 36, wherein processing the first electrical signal to generate the first data comprises: obtaining data samples from the first electrical signal at a predetermined sampling frequency.
39. The method of claim 38, wherein at least one of the data samples comprises a data segment obtained by applying a window function to the first electrical signal.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein processing the first electrical signal to generate the first data further comprises: extracting at least one characterizing feature from each data segment, and wherein the first data comprises the at least one characterizing feature.
41. The method of claim 38, wherein obtaining the training dataset further comprises: labelling the data samples using the third data.
42. The method of claim 40, wherein: obtaining the training dataset further comprises labelling the data samples using the third data; and the training dataset comprises a plurality of data entries, at least one of which comprising the at least one characterizing feature extracted from a respective data sample and a label of the same data sample.
43. The method of claim 34, wherein the stressor is configured to: affect a lighting condition of the first plant; and/or cause the first plant to have water stress; and/or cause the first plant to be infested by insects; and/or cause the first plant to be infected with a pathogen; and/or cause the first plant to have CO2 deficit; and/or cause the first plant to have excess or insufficient nutrients; and/or cause the first plant to have temperature stress; and/or cause the first plant to have salt stress; and/or prematurely cause or delay growth, flowering, or fruit maturing of the first plant.
44. The method of claim 34, wherein assessing a characteristic of the second plant based upon the third electrical signal comprises: processing the third electrical signal to generate data characterising the third electrical signal; and providing the generated data as input data to the trained machine learning model.
45. The method of claim 34, wherein the training dataset further comprises environmental data characterising the growth environment of the first plant during the first and the second time periods.
46. The method of claim 45, further comprising: obtaining environmental data characterising a growth environment of the second plant; assessing, using the trained machine learning model, the characteristic of the second plant based upon the third electrical signal and the environmental data characterising the growth environment of the second plant.
47. The method of claim 34, further comprising: generating plant data indicative of an assessment result of the characteristic of the second plant.
48. The method of claim 47, further comprising: generating a plant control signal based upon the plant data, wherein the plant control signal is configured to change a growth environment of the second plant.
49. An apparatus for assessing a characteristic of a plant comprising: a computer readable storage medium storing a machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model has been trained using a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises first data characterising a first electrical signal obtained from a first plant during a first time period when a stressor is present in the first plant or in a growth environment of the first plant, second data characterising a second electrical signal obtained from the first plant during a second time period when a stressor is not present in the first plant or in the growth environment of the first plant, and third data indicative of a characteristic of the first plant during the first time period and a characteristic of the first plant during the second time period; a capture device configured to sense a third electrical signal from a second plant; and a processor configured to assess a characteristic of the second plant based upon the machine learning model and the third electrical signal.
50. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the computer readable storage medium is configured to store a first machine learning model which has been trained by a first training dataset for assessing a first characteristic of a plant, and a second machine learning model which has been trained by a second training dataset for assessing a second different characteristic of a plant, and wherein the first training dataset further comprises first environmental data characterising a first condition of the growth environment, and the second training dataset further comprises second environmental data characterising a second different condition of the growth environment.
51. The apparatus of claim 49, wherein the computer readable storage medium is configured to store a first machine learning model which has been trained by a first training dataset for assessing a first characteristic of a plant, and a second machine learning model which has been trained by a second training dataset for assessing the first characteristic of a plant, and wherein the first training dataset further comprises first environmental data characterising a first condition of the growth environment, and the second training dataset further comprises second environmental data characterising a second different condition of the growth environment.
52. A system comprising: an apparatus according to claim 49, and a plant control system configured to automatically change a growth environment of the second plant based upon the assessed characteristic of the second plant.
53. A method of training a machine learning model for assessing a characteristic of a plant, the method comprising: obtaining a training dataset, wherein the training dataset comprises first data characterising a first electrical signal obtained from a first plant during a first time period when a stressor is present in the first plant or in a growth environment of the first plant, second data characterising a second electrical signal obtained from the first plant during a second time period when a stressor is not present in the first plant or in the growth environment of the first plant, and third data indicative of a characteristic of the first plant during the first time period and a characteristic of the first plant during the second time period; and training the machine learning model, using the training dataset, to assess a characteristic of a second plant based upon a third electrical signal obtained from the second plant.
</claims>
</document>
