<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D45/00,G08G5/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
US GOVT AS REPRESENTED BY SECRETARY OF AIR FORCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Canzonetta, David
Miller, Michael
Schneider, Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73230720
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Interactive Artificial Intelligence System with Adaptive Timing
</title>

<abstract>
A method, threat monitoring system, and computer program product provide a human-automation collaborative response. An automated controller monitors an assigned target area using target sensor(s). Categorization status is tracked for targets within the assigned target area. Display(s) of an operator station presents one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area. The automated controller annotates the one or more targets on the display(s) with an indication of classification status. In response to a previously receiving a previously untracked target from the sensor(s), the automated controller tracks an amount of time that each target has been presented without an operator response to each target via a user interface device. In response to the amount of time that a particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a first time threshold, the automated controller responds to the particular target using an automated agent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of human-automation collaborative response, the method comprising: monitoring, by an automated controller, an assigned target area using at least one target sensor; tracking categorization status for targets within the assigned target area; presenting, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area; annotating the one or more targets on the at least one display with an indication of classification status; and in response to previously receiving a previously untracked target from the at least one sensor: tracking an amount of time that each target has been presented without an operator response to each target via a user interface device; and in response to the amount of time that a particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a first time threshold, automatically responding to the particular target using an automated agent.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: annotating the one or more targets comprises designating each target with a classification status from among: (i) unclassified; (ii) operator classified; and (iii) automated agent classified; in response to receiving a user input confirming a classification of a particular target by the automated agent, changing the classification and the annotation of the particular target from automated agent classified to operator classified; and in response to receiving a user input overruling a classification of the particular target by the automated agent, changing the classification and the annotation of the particular target from automated agent classified to unclassified.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein changing the classification of the particular target by the automated agent is further in response to determining that the particular target has been annotated as classified by the automated agent for more than a specified delay interval.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting an alert containing information of the classified target to a management console that takes corrective action to mitigate the threat.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to the amount of time that the particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a second time threshold that is less than the first time threshold, automatically annotating the particular target on the at least one display to prompt the operator.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tracking an inter-arrival time (IRT) of the presentation of the one or more targets; and in response to the IRT exceeding a first rate threshold, reducing the first time threshold.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising, in response to the IRT being less than a second rate threshold that is less than the first rate threshold, increasing the first time threshold.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the assigned target area comprises a network of information handling systems; the at least one target sensor comprises a remote agent communicatively coupled to the network information handling system to receive and report workload indications from at least one of the information handling systems; the target comprises a workload indication that is above a threshold for a particular information handling system; and the classification comprises designating the workload indication as one of: (i) a cyber attack; and (ii) not a cyber attack.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: monitoring the assigned target area using the at least one target sensor comprises receiving radar returns of an airspace sector assigned to an operator station; tracking categorization status for targets within the assigned target area comprises at least one of aircraft detection and aircraft identification; and presenting, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area comprises presenting, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets based on the radar returns positioned to represent a current location within the air space sector.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the operator and automated agent responses indicate detection of a particular target being an aircraft; and the automated agent is an aircraft detection agent.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein: the operator and automated agent responses identify a particular target as being one of a friendly aircraft and an unfriendly aircraft; and the automated agent is an aircraft identification agent.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a secondary source of data associated with the one or more targets comprising one or more of infrared data, flight plan data, and kinematic data; presenting the secondary source of data on the at least one display of the operator station to assist the operator; and providing the secondary source of data to the automated response agent that bases an automated response at least in part on the secondary source of data.
13. A threat monitoring system that engenders a human-automation collaborative response, the threat monitoring system comprising: at least one target sensor that detects targets within a target area; an operator station having an automatic controller, at least one display, and a user interface device that receives a user input from an operator, the automated controller communicatively coupled to the at least one target sensor, the at least one display, the user interface device, and which: monitors, by an automated controller, an assigned target area using at least one target sensor; tracks categorization status for targets within the assigned target area; presents, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area; annotates the one or more targets on the at least one display with an indication of classification status; and in response to a previously receiving a previously untracked target from the at least one sensor: tracks an amount of time that each target has been presented without an operator response to each target via a user interface device; and in response to the amount of time that a particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a first time threshold, automatically responds to the particular target using an automated agent.
14. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the automated controller: annotates the one or more targets by designating each target with a classification status from among: (i) unclassified; (ii) operator classified; and (iii) automated agent classified; in response to receiving a user input confirming a classification of a particular target by the automated agent, changes the classification and the annotation of the particular target from automated agent classified to operator classified; and in response to receiving a user input overruling a classification of the particular target by the automated agent, changes the classification and the annotation of the particular target from automated agent classified to unclassified.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the automated controller changes the classification of the particular target by the automated agent is further in response to determining that the particular target has been annotated as classified by the automated agent for more than a specified delay interval.
16. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the automated controller transmits an alert containing information of the classified target to a management console that takes corrective action to mitigate the threat.
17. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the automated controller, in response to the amount of time that the particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a second time threshold that is less than the first time threshold, automatically annotates the particular target on the at least one display to prompt the operator.
18. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the automated controller: tracks an inter-arrival time (IRT) of the presentation of the one or more targets; and in response to the IRT exceeding a first rate threshold, reduces the first time threshold.
19. The threat monitoring system of claim 18, wherein the automated controller, in response to the IRT being less than a second rate threshold that is less than the first rate threshold, increases the first time threshold.
20. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein: the assigned target area comprises a network of information handling systems; the at least one target sensor comprises a remote agent communicatively coupled to the network information handling system to receive and report workload indications from at least one of the information handling systems; the target comprises a workload indication that is above a threshold for a particular information handling system; and the classification comprises designating the workload indication as one of: (i) a cyber attack; and (ii) not a cyber attack.
21. The threat monitoring system of claim 13, wherein the automated controller: monitors the assigned target area using the at least one target sensor comprises receiving radar returns of an airspace sector assigned to an operator station; tracks categorization status for targets within the assigned target area comprises at least one of aircraft detection and aircraft identification; and presents, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area by presenting, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets based on the radar returns positioned to represent a current location within the air space sector.
22. The threat monitoring system of claim 21, wherein: the operator and automated agent responses indicate detection of a particular target being an aircraft; and the automated agent is an aircraft detection agent.
23. The threat monitoring system of claim 21, wherein: the operator and automated agent responses identify a particular target as being one of a friendly aircraft and an unfriendly aircraft; and the automated agent is an aircraft identification agent.
24. The threat monitoring system of claim 21, further comprising: receiving a secondary source of data associated with the one or more targets comprising one or more of infrared data, flight plan data, and kinematic data; presenting the secondary source of data on the at least one display of the operator station to assist the operator; and providing the secondary source of data to the automated response agent that bases an automated response at least in part on the secondary source of data.
24. A computer program product for that engenders a human-automation collaborative response, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage device having stored thereon program code that, when executed, configures a processor to perform executable operations comprising: monitoring, by an automated controller, an assigned target area using at least one target sensor; tracking categorization status for targets within the assigned target area; presenting, on at least one display of the operator station, one or more targets being tracked by the automated controller within the assigned target area; annotating the one or more targets on the at least one display with an indication of classification status; and in response to a previously receiving a previously untracked target from the at least one sensor: tracking an amount of time that each target has been presented without an operator response to each target via a user interface device; and in response to the amount of time that a particular target has been presented without an operator response exceeding a first time threshold, automatically responding to the particular target using an automated agent.
</claims>
</document>
