<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/309,H04B7/0413,H04B7/06,H04L5/00,H04W24/10,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALANEN, OLLI
KASSLIN, MIKA
KOLMONEN, VELI-MATTI
MARIN, JANNE
NOKIA NETWORKS
RANTALA, ENRICO HENRIK
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALANEN, OLLI
KASSLIN, MIKA
KOLMONEN, VELI-MATTI
MARIN, JANNE
RANTALA, ENRICO HENRIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70613636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNICATIONS APPARATUS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Communications apparatuses and methods are provided. The solution comprises receiving (200) from a server a request to perform sensing measurements; allocating (202) transmission resources to one or more wireless terminal devices, where the allocated resources are larger than needed for data transmission of the one or more wireless terminal; transmitting (204) information on resource to the one or more wireless terminal devices; receiving (206) transmission from one or more wireless terminal devices, the transmission comprising an amount of known symbols in addition to data; estimating (208) channel state information utilizing the known symbols; and transmitting (210) channel state information to the server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communications apparatus, the apparatus comprising at least one processor; at least one memory including computer program code; the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform: receiving from a server a request to perform sensing measurements; allocating transmission resources to one or more wireless terminal devices, where the allocated resources are larger than needed for data transmission of the one or more wireless terminal, the amount of transmission resources not needed for data transmission being selected based on the request received from the server; transmitting information on resource to the one or more wireless terminal devices; receiving transmission from one or more wireless terminal devices, the transmission comprising an amount of known symbols in addition to data; estimating channel state information utilizing the known symbols; and transmitting channel state information to the server.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: allocating larger transmission resources for those wireless terminal devices which utilize Orthogonal Frequency Domain Multiple Access or Multi-User Multiple-Input-Multiple-Output in transmission.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: determining the amount of transmission resources to be allocated based on amount of data expected from the terminals.
4. (canceled)
5. The apparatus of claim 23, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: receiving from the one or more wireless terminal devices information on the amount of data to be expected from the terminals.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: indicating to a terminal what known symbols the terminal is to use.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: receiving from a terminal information on the known symbols.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: determining from transmission of a terminal the known symbols the terminal is using.
9. A communications apparatus, the apparatus comprising at least one processor; at least one memory including computer program code; the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform: transmitting to an access point information on the amount of resources required for uplink data transmission; receiving an transmission resource allocation from an access point, where the allocated resources are larger than needed for data transmission; transmitting using the allocated resources, where resources left over the data to be transmitted are filled with additional known symbols.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: transmitting to the access point information on the known symbols.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus further to perform: receiving from the access point information what known symbols to use.
12. A method in a communication system, comprising: receiving from a server a request to perform sensing measurements; allocating transmission resources to one or more wireless terminal devices, where the allocated resources are larger than needed for data transmission of the one or more wireless terminal, the amount of transmission resources not needed for data transmission being selected based on the request received from the server; transmitting information on resource to the one or more wireless terminal devices; receiving transmission from one or more wireless terminal devices, the transmission comprising an amount of known symbols in addition to data; estimating channel state information utilizing the known symbols; and transmitting channel state information to the server.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: allocating larger transmission resources for those wireless terminal devices which utilize Orthogonal Frequency Domain Multiple Access or Multi-User Multiple-Input-Multiple-Output in transmission.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining the amount of transmission resources to be allocated based on amount of data expected from the terminals.
15. (canceled)
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving from the one or more wireless terminal devices information on the amount of data to be expected from the terminals.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: indicating to a terminal what known symbols the terminal is to use.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving from a terminal information on the known symbols.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining from transmission of a terminal the known symbols the terminal is using.
20. A method comprising transmitting to an access point information on the amount of resources required for uplink data transmission; receiving an transmission resource allocation from an access point, where the allocated resources are larger than needed for data transmission; transmitting using the allocated resources, where resources left over the data to be transmitted are filled with additional known symbols.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: transmitting to the access point information on the known symbols.
22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: receiving from the access point information what known symbols to use.
23. A computer program comprising instructions for causing an apparatus of a communication system to perform any of the method of claim 12.
24. A computer program comprising instructions for causing an apparatus of a communication system to perform any of the method of claim 20.
</claims>
</document>
