<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N5/02,G10L15/08,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
[24]7.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSE, ABHISHEK
GROVER, SUNEET
MADHAVAN, ANAND
SALAMMAGARI, ABHI RAM REDDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719892
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR FACILITATING TRAINING OF AGENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and apparatus for facilitating training of agents is disclosed. Raw transcripts representing textual form of interactions between the agents and customers of the enterprise are transformed to generate transformed transcripts. An interaction summary is generated in relation to each transformed transcript. A plurality of intent-based interaction clusters are derived using the interaction summary generated in relation to each transformed transcript. The plurality of interactions are classified based on the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters and an interaction flow map is generated for each intent-based interaction cluster based on the interactions classified into the respective intent-based interaction cluster. The generated interaction flow map is capable of facilitating training of agents for interacting with the customers of the enterprise.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for facilitating training of agents of an enterprise, the method comprising: transforming, by a processor, a plurality of raw transcripts to generate transformed transcripts, wherein the plurality of raw transcripts represents a textual form of a plurality of interactions between the agents and customers of the enterprise, and wherein transforming each raw transcript from among the plurality of raw transcripts comprises performing at least one pre-processing operation on the respective raw transcript; generating, by the processor, an interaction summary in relation to each transformed transcript; deriving, by the processor, a plurality of intent-based interaction clusters using the interaction summary generated in relation to each transformed transcript; associating each intent-based interaction cluster with a customer intent to configure a plurality of customer intents corresponding to the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters; classifying interactions from among the plurality of interactions, by the processor, based on the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters; generating, by the processor, an interaction flow map for each intent-based interaction cluster based on the interactions classified into the respective intent-based interaction cluster; and using the generated interaction flow map to facilitate training of at least one agent for interacting with the customers of the enterprise.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing, by the processor, for each intent-based interaction cluster: retrieving agent utterances from the interactions classified into the respective intent-based interaction cluster; and clustering the agent utterances at each agent turn to generate one or more agent utterance clusters for each agent turn.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising performing, by the processor, for each intent-based interaction cluster: retrieving customer utterances from the interactions classified into the intent-based interaction cluster; and clustering the customer utterances at each customer turn to generate one or more customer utterance clusters for each customer turn.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: tracing, by the processor, a flow of interactions from one interaction turn to another interaction turn using interaction paths for each interaction in the intent-based intention cluster; and connecting, with each interaction path, an utterance cluster at one turn to another utterance cluster at a subsequent turn.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: for an agent turn, selecting the utterance cluster from among the one or more agent utterance clusters corresponding to the respective agent turn; and for the subsequent turn being a customer turn, selecting the another utterance cluster from among the one or more customer utterance clusters corresponding to the respective customer turn.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: for a customer turn, selecting the utterance cluster from among the one or more customer utterance clusters corresponding to the respective customer turn; and for the subsequent turn being an agent turn, selecting the another utterance cluster from among the one or more agent utterance clusters corresponding to the respective customer turn.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising: associating each interaction path with a count of a number of interactions following the flow of interaction between utterance clusters as represented by the respective interaction path.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the processor, a corpus of n-grams relevant to the plurality of interactions between the agents and the customers of the enterprise; and associating, by the processor, each n-gram with a weight based on at least one predefined criterion, wherein the interaction summary is generated for each transformed transcript based, at least in part, on the weight associated with each n-gram.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein deriving the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters comprises performing unsupervised clustering of interaction summaries generated corresponding to the transformed transcripts.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting the at least one pre-processing operation from among operations related to stop-word removal, stemming, lemmatization, chunking, dictionary checking, masking and rule-based transcript processing.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interactions comprises voice interactions and textual chat interactions between the agents and the customers of the enterprise.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating, by the processor, textual representations of the voice interactions using at least one processing technique from among Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR).
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: converting each textual chat interaction and each textual representation of the voice interaction into a predefined format to generate the transformed transcripts.
14. An apparatus for facilitating training of agents of an enterprise, the apparatus comprising: a memory for storing instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions and thereby cause the apparatus to at least perform: transform a plurality of raw transcripts to generate transformed transcripts, wherein the plurality of raw transcripts represents textual form of a plurality of interactions between the agents and customers of the enterprise and, wherein transforming each raw transcript from among the plurality of raw transcripts comprises performing at least one pre-processing operation on the respective raw transcript; generate an interaction summary in relation to each transformed transcript; derive a plurality of intent-based interaction clusters using the interaction summary generated in relation to each transformed transcript; associate each intent-based interaction cluster with a customer intent to configure a plurality of customer intents corresponding to the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters; classify interactions from among the plurality of interactions based on the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters; generate an interaction flow map for each intent-based interaction cluster based on the interactions classified into the respective intent-based interaction cluster; and with the generated interaction flow map, facilitate training of at least one agent for interacting with the customers of the enterprise.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus is further caused to perform for each intent-based interaction cluster: retrieve agent utterances and customer utterances from the interactions classified into the respective intent-based interaction cluster; and cluster the agent utterances at each agent turn and cluster the customer utterances at each customer turn to generate one or more agent utterance clusters for each agent turn and one or more customer utterance clusters for each customer turn, respectively.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: trace a flow of interaction from one interaction turn to another interaction turn using interaction paths for each interaction in the intent-based intention cluster; and connect, with each interaction path, an utterance cluster at one turn to another utterance cluster at a subsequent turn.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein deriving the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters comprises performing unsupervised clustering of interaction summaries generated corresponding to the transformed transcripts.
18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: generate a corpus of n-grams relevant to the plurality of interactions between the agents and the customers of the enterprise; associate each n-gram with a weight based on at least one predefined criterion; generate the interaction summary for each transformed transcript based, at least in part, on the weight associated with each n-gram.
19. A computer-implemented method for facilitating training of chatbots of an enterprise, the method comprising: classifying, by a processor, a plurality of interactions between agents and customers of the enterprise based on a plurality of intent-based interaction clusters; and performing, by the processor, for at least one intent-based interaction cluster from among the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters: retrieve agent utterances and customer utterances from interactions classified into the intent-based interaction cluster; cluster the agent utterances at each agent turn and cluster the customer utterances at each customer turn to generate one or more agent utterance clusters for each agent turn and one or more customer utterance clusters for each customer turn, respectively; trace a flow of interaction from one interaction turn to another interaction turn using interaction paths for each interaction classified into the intent-based interaction cluster; for each interaction path, connect an utterance cluster at one turn to another utterance cluster at a subsequent turn; trace the flow of interaction for each interaction to facilitate the generation of an interaction flow map for the respective intent-based interaction cluster; and with the interaction flow map, facilitate training of at least one chatbot for interacting with the customers of the enterprise.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: generating, by the processor, a corpus of n-grams relevant to the plurality of interactions between the agents and the customers of the enterprise; associating, by the processor, each n-gram with a weight based on at least one predefined criterion; generating, by the processor, an interaction summary in relation to each interaction from among the plurality of interactions; and generating the interaction summary for each interaction based, at least in part, on the weight associated with each n-gram and, wherein the plurality of intent-based interaction clusters are derived using the interaction summary generated in relation to each interaction.
</claims>
</document>
