<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABIN, ANDREW TODD
Daniels, Michelle Lee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71899896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXTUAL GUIDANCE FOR HEARING AID
</title>

<abstract>
Various implementations include control mechanisms for managing hearing aid usage. In some cases, an interface with a representation of the hearing aid in space is used to control audio functions in the device. In other cases, directionality of the device is controlled based upon the user's visual focus direction. In additional cases, the operating mode of the device is adjustable based upon the signature of a nearby acoustic signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: providing a device usage recommendation to a user of a hearing aid based upon at least one of: an operating state of the hearing aid, a usage pattern for the hearing aid, or a characteristic of ambient acoustic signals detected at the hearing aid; at least one of: requesting feedback from the user about the device usage recommendation, or detecting a device usage adjustment at the hearing aid; and in response to receiving the feedback from the user or detecting the device usage adjustment, updating a set of device usage recommendation mappings.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing the device usage recommendation comprises applying the set of device usage recommendation mappings to data about at least one of: the operating state, the usage pattern or the characteristic of the ambient acoustic signals, to select the device usage recommendation.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the device usage recommendations comprise mappings between: at least one of: operating states of the hearing aid, usage patterns for the hearing aid, or acoustic signatures of ambient acoustic signals; and device usage recommendations.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the device usage recommendation comprises a suggested corrective action to: improve audibility of target ambient acoustic signals for the user, or enhance performance of the hearing aid.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the device usage recommendation comprises a suggested corrective action to adjust a behavior of the user or adjust a setting on the hearing aid, and wherein the device usage recommendation mappings are further updated based upon usage pattern data for a population of users distinct from the user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the device usage recommendation is provided at a display located on the hearing aid or on a distinct display at a smart device connected with the hearing aid.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing the device usage recommendation to the user based upon a characteristic of the hearing aid as detected by a sensor system.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the operating state is defined by at least one of: an on/off state of the hearing aid, or an operating mode of the hearing aid while in the on state, wherein the operating mode is defined by a time spent in the operating mode and a user adjustment to a setting in the operating mode, and wherein the device usage adjustment comprises a user adjustment between operating modes or a user adjustment to a setting within an operating mode.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing a notification indicating availability of the device usage recommendation, wherein the notification and the device usage recommendation are provided using at least one of: a visual interface, a tactile interface or an audio interface, and wherein the user provides the feedback at one or more of the visual interface, the tactile interface, the audio interface, or with a gesture-based command.
10. A hearing aid comprising: an acoustic transducer for providing an audio output; at least one microphone for detecting ambient acoustic signals; and a control circuit coupled with the acoustic transducer and the at least one microphone, the control circuit configured to: provide a device usage recommendation to the user based upon at least one of: an operating state of the hearing aid, a usage pattern for the hearing aid or a characteristic of the ambient acoustic signals detected by the at least one microphone; at least one of: request feedback from the user about the device usage recommendation, or detect a device usage adjustment at the hearing aid; and in response to receiving the feedback from the user or detecting the device usage adjustment, update a set of device usage recommendation mappings.
11. The hearing aid of claim 10, wherein providing the device usage recommendation comprises applying the set of device usage recommendation mappings to data about at least one of: the operating state of the hearing aid, the usage pattern or the characteristic of the ambient acoustic signals, to select the device usage recommendation, wherein the device usage recommendations comprise mappings between: at least one of: operating states of the hearing aid, usage patterns for the hearing aid or acoustic signatures of ambient acoustic signals; and device usage recommendations, and wherein the device usage recommendation comprises a suggested corrective action to: improve audibility of target ambient acoustic signals for the user, or enhance performance of the hearing aid.
12. The hearing aid of claim 10, further comprising a display, wherein the device usage recommendation is provided at the display located at the hearing aid or on a distinct display at a smart device connected with the hearing aid.
13. The hearing aid of claim 10, wherein the ambient acoustic signals are detected by the at least one microphone at the hearing aid or a distinct microphone at a smart device connected with the hearing aid.
14. The hearing aid of claim 10, wherein the operating state is defined by at least one of: an on/off state of the hearing aid, or an operating mode of the hearing aid while in the on state, wherein the operating mode is defined by a time spent in the operating mode and a user adjustment to a setting in the operating mode, and wherein the device usage adjustment comprises a user adjustment between operating modes or a user adjustment to a setting within an operating mode.
15. The hearing aid of claim 10, wherein the device usage recommendation comprises a suggested corrective action to adjust a behavior of the user or adjust a setting on the hearing aid, and wherein the device usage recommendation mappings are further updated based upon usage pattern data for a population of users distinct from the user.
16. A system comprising: a smart device; and a hearing aid connected with the smart device, the hearing aid comprising: an acoustic transducer for providing an audio output; at least one microphone for detecting ambient acoustic signals; and a control circuit coupled with the acoustic transducer and the at least one microphone, the control circuit configured to: provide a device usage recommendation to the user based upon at least one of: an operating state of the hearing aid, a usage pattern for the hearing aid, or a characteristic of the ambient acoustic signals detected by the at least one microphone; at least one of: request feedback from the user about the device usage recommendation, or detect a device usage adjustment at the hearing aid; and in response to receiving the feedback from the user or detecting the device usage adjustment, update a set of device usage recommendation mappings.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein providing the device usage recommendation comprises applying the set of device usage recommendation mappings to data about at least one of: the operating state of the hearing aid, the usage pattern or the characteristic of the ambient acoustic signals, to select the device usage recommendation, wherein the device usage recommendations comprise mappings between: at least one of: operating states of the hearing aid, usage patterns for the hearing aid or acoustic signatures of ambient acoustic signals; and device usage recommendations, wherein the device usage recommendation comprises a suggested corrective action to adjust a behavior of the user or adjust a setting on the hearing aid.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the hearing aid further comprises a display, and wherein the smart device further comprises a distinct display, wherein the control circuit is configured to provide the device usage recommendation at the display located at the hearing aid or on the distinct display at the smart device.
19. The system of claim 16, further comprising a sensor system at the smart device or the hearing aid, wherein providing the device usage recommendation to the user is based upon a characteristic of the hearing aid as detected by the sensor system.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the operating state is defined by at least one of: an on/off state of the hearing aid, or an operating mode of the hearing aid while in the on state, wherein the operating mode is defined by a time spent in the operating mode and a user adjustment to a setting in the operating mode, wherein the device usage adjustment comprises a user adjustment between operating modes or a user adjustment to a setting within an operating mode, and wherein the device usage recommendation mappings are further updated based upon usage pattern data for a population of users distinct from the user.
</claims>
</document>
