<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60N2/02,B60N2/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA
MIGA TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANDHI, UMESH, N.
PINKELMAN, BRIAN J.
TSURUTA, RYOHEI
GUMMIN, MARK A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836985
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE SEAT WITH MORPHING PORTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle seat can be configured to selectively provide support to a vehicle occupant in conditions when lateral acceleration is experienced. An actuator can be located within the vehicle seat. When activated, the actuator cause a portion of the seat to morph into an activated configuration. The actuator can be activated based on vehicle speed, steering angle, and/or lateral acceleration. The actuator can include a main body member, a first end member pivotably connected to a first end region of the main body member, and a second end member pivotably connected to a second end region of the main body member. The actuator can include shape memory material connecting members. The actuator can be configured such that, in response to an activation input, the shape memory material connecting members contract, causing the first and second end members pivot, which causes the actuator to morph into an activated configuration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An actuator comprising: a main body member, the main body member having a first end region and a second end region; a first end member pivotably connected to the first end region of the main body member; a first shape memory material connecting member connecting the first end member to the main body member; a second end member pivotably connected to the second end region of the main body member; and a second shape memory material connecting member connecting the second end member to the main body member, the actuator having a first dimension and a second dimension, the first dimension being substantially perpendicular to the second dimension, the first dimension being in a direction that extends through the first end member and the second end member, the actuator being configured such that, when an activation input is provided to the first and second shape memory material connecting members, the first and second shape memory material connecting members contract, causing the first and second end members to pivot, thereby causing the actuator to morph into an activated configuration in which the second dimension increases.
2. The actuator of claim 1, further including a first membrane, wherein the first membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a first side of the main body member.
3. The actuator of claim 2, further including a second membrane, wherein the second membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a second side of the main body member, and wherein the first side is opposite the second side.
4. The actuator of claim 2, wherein the first membrane is operatively connected to the second end member by one or more hinge members.
5. The actuator of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first shape memory material connecting member, and wherein the second shape memory material connecting member is a shape memory alloy wire.
6. The actuator of claim 1, wherein the actuator is further configured such that, when the activation input to the first and second shape memory material connecting members is discontinued, the first and second shape memory material connecting members substantially returns to a non-activated configuration.
7. A vehicle seat system comprising: a vehicle seat; and one or more actuators located within the vehicle seat, the one or more actuators being operatively positioned such that, when activated, the one or more actuators cause a portion of the vehicle seat to morph into an activated configuration, the one or more actuators including: a main body member, the main body member having a first end region and a second end region; a first end member pivotably connected to the first end region of the main body member; a first shape memory material connecting member connecting the first end member to the main body member; a second end member pivotably connected to the second end region of the main body member; and a second shape memory material connecting member connecting the second end member to the main body member, the actuator having a first dimension and a second dimension, the first dimension being substantially perpendicular to the second dimension, the first dimension being in a direction that extends through the first end member and the second end member, the actuator being configured such that, when an activation input is provided to the first and second shape memory material connecting members, the first and second shape memory material connecting members contract, causing the first and second end members to pivot, thereby causing the actuator to morph into an activated configuration in which the second dimension increases.
8. The vehicle seat system of claim 7, wherein the portion of the vehicle seat is a seat cushion or a bolster of a seat cushion.
9. The vehicle seat system of claim 7, wherein the portion of the vehicle seat is a seat back or a bolster of a seat back.
10. The vehicle seat system of claim 7, further including: one or more power sources operatively connected to the one or more actuators; and one or more processors operatively connected to control a supply of electrical energy from the one or more power sources to the one or more actuators, wherein the one or more processors are programmed to initiate executable operations comprising: determine, based on the sensor data acquired by one or more sensors, whether a seat actuator activation condition is met; and responsive to determining that the seat actuator activation condition is met, causing electrical energy to be supplied to one or more of the one or more actuators from the one or more power sources, whereby the one or more of the one or more actuators are activated to cause the portion of the vehicle seat to morph into an activated configuration.
11. The vehicle seat system of claim 10, further including one or more sensors operatively connected to the one or more processors, wherein the one or more sensors are configured to acquire sensor data about vehicle speed or steering wheel angle, and wherein the seat actuator activation condition is a vehicle speed threshold or a steering angle threshold.
12. The vehicle seat system of claim 10, further including one or more sensors operatively connected to the one or more processors, wherein the one or more sensors are configured to acquire sensor data about lateral acceleration, and wherein the seat actuator activation condition is a lateral acceleration threshold.
13. The vehicle seat system of claim 7, further including a first membrane and a second membrane, wherein the first membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a first side of the main body member, and wherein the second membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a second side of the main body member, wherein the first side is opposite the second side.
14. The vehicle seat system of claim 7, wherein at least one of the first shape memory material connecting member, and wherein the second shape memory material connecting member is a shape memory alloy wire.
15. A method of morphing a portion of a vehicle seat, one or more actuators being located within the vehicle seat, the one or more actuators being operatively positioned such that, when activated, the one or more actuators cause a portion of the vehicle seat to morph into an activated configuration, the method comprising: receiving sensor data from one or more sensors on a vehicle; determining, based on the sensor data, whether a seat actuator activation condition is met; and responsive to determining that the seat actuator activation condition is met, causing one or more actuators to be activated to cause a portion of the vehicle seat to morph into an activated configuration, the one or more actuators including: a main body member, the main body member having a first end region and a second end region; a first end member pivotably connected to the first end region of the main body member; a first shape memory material connecting member connecting the first end member to the main body member; a second end member pivotably connected to the second end region of the main body member; and a second shape memory material connecting member connecting the second end member to the main body member, the actuator having a first dimension and a second dimension, the first dimension being substantially perpendicular to the second dimension, the first dimension being in a direction that extends through the first end member and the second end member, the actuator being configured such that, when an activation input is provided to the first and second shape memory material connecting members, the first and second shape memory material connecting members contract, causing the first and second end members to pivot, thereby causing the actuator to morph into an activated configuration in which the second dimension increases.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the portion of the vehicle seat is a seat cushion or a bolster of a seat cushion.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the portion of the vehicle seat is a seat back or a bolster of a seat back.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein determining, based on the sensor data, whether a seat actuator activation condition is met includes: comparing the sensor data to one or more thresholds, wherein the one or more thresholds includes a vehicle speed threshold, a steering angle threshold, or a lateral acceleration threshold; and if the sensor data meets the one or more thresholds, then a seat actuator activation condition is detected.
19. The method of claim 15, further including a first membrane and a second membrane, wherein the first membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a first side of the main body member, and wherein the second membrane is operatively connected to the first end member and the second end member on a second side of the main body member, wherein the first side is opposite the second side.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one of the first shape memory material connecting member, and wherein the second shape memory material connecting member is a shape memory alloy wire.
</claims>
</document>
