<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUY, IDO
RADINSKI, KIRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139587
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS FROM USER REVIEWS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of improving a user interface by generating product descriptions from user reviews are disclosed. In some example embodiments, a computer system identifies a subset of product review contents from amongst a plurality of product review contents as being suitable to be used in a product description for a product using a classifier, selects at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product based on their corresponding confidence values, and causes the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents to be displayed on a client device in a user interface area dedicated for the product description of the product. The classifier predicts each product review content in the subset to be suitable to be used in the product description with a corresponding confidence value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying, by one or more hardware processors, a subset of product review contents from amongst a plurality of product review contents as being suitable to be used in a product description for a product using a classifier, the classifier predicting each product review content in the subset to be suitable to be used in the product description with a corresponding confidence value; selecting, by the one or more hardware processors, at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product, the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents comprising: ranking the subset of product review contents based on the confidence values of the subset of product review contents; and selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on the ranking; and causing, by the one or more hardware processors, the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents to be displayed on a client device in a user interface area dedicated for the product description of the product.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents further comprises: determining that at least one of the product review contents in the subset of product review contents is to be omitted from inclusion in the selected portion of the identified subset of product review contents to be displayed in the user interface area dedicated for the product description of the product, the determining that the at least one of the product review contents in the subset of product review contents is to be omitted from inclusion being based on at least one factor; and omitting the at least one of the product review contents from the selected portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on the determining that the at least one of the product review contents is to be omitted.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the at least one factor comprises a determination that the at least one of the product review contents in the subset of product review contents is redundant with respect to another product review content in the subset of product review contents based on a comparison of the at least one of the product review contents in the subset with other product review content in the subset.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents comprises determining an order in which to display the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on a model, the order being inconsistent with the ranking of the subset of product review contents.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the subset of product review contents comprises: receiving a plurality of source sentences from product reviews; and translating each one of the plurality of source sentences into a corresponding target sentence using a translation model, the plurality of product review content comprising the target sentences corresponding to the plurality of source sentences.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the selecting of the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product is based on at least one of: for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, a degree of change between the source sentence and the target sentence; for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, one or more words that were removed in the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence; for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, one or more words that were added in the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence; and for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, a confidence score for the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents is based on one or more characteristics of the client device.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the one or more characteristics comprises a screen size of the client device.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each product review content in the plurality of product review contents comprises a sentence.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising training, by the one or more hardware processors, the classifier using another plurality of product review contents as training data, a portion of the other plurality of product review contents being identified as being suitable for use in product description and a remaining portion of the other plurality of product review contents being identified as being unsuitable for use in product descriptions.
11. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a computer-readable storage medium storing executable instructions that, when executed, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations comprising: identifying a subset of product review contents from amongst a plurality of product review contents as being suitable to be used in a product description for a product using a classifier, the classifier predicting each product review content in the subset to be suitable to be used in the product description with a corresponding confidence value; selecting at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product based on the corresponding confidence values of the selected at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents; and causing the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents to be displayed on a client device in a user interface area dedicated for the product description of the product.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents comprises: ranking the subset of product review contents based on the confidence values of the subset of product review contents; and selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on the ranking.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents comprises: determining that at least one of the product review contents in the subset of product review contents is redundant with respect to another product review contents in the subset of product review content based on a comparison of the at least one of the product review contents in the subset with other product review contents in the subset, and omitting the at least one of the product review contents from the selected portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on the determination that the at least one of the product review contents is redundant.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the selecting the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents comprises determining an order in which to display the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents based on a model, the order being inconsistent with the ranking of the subset of product review contents.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the identifying the subset of product review contents comprises: receiving a plurality of source sentences from product reviews; and translating each one of the plurality of source sentences into a corresponding target sentence using a translation model, the plurality of product review content comprising the target sentences corresponding to the plurality of source sentences.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the selecting of the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product is based on at least one of: for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, a degree of change between the source sentence and the target sentence; for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, one or more words that were removed in the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence; for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, one or more words that were added in the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence; and for each one of the plurality of source sentences and its corresponding target sentence, a confidence score for the translating of the source sentence into the target sentence.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the selecting of the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents is based on one or more characteristics of the client device.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more characteristics comprises a screen size of the client device.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise training the classifier using another plurality of product review contents as training data, a portion of the other plurality of product review contents being identified as being suitable for use in product description and a remaining portion of the other plurality of product review contents being identified as being unsuitable for use in product descriptions.
20. A machine-readable storage medium storing a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: identifying a subset of product review contents from amongst a plurality of product review contents as being suitable to be used in a product description for a product using a classifier, the classifier predicting each product review content in the subset to be suitable to be used in the product description with a corresponding confidence value; selecting at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents for inclusion in the product description for the product based on the corresponding confidence values of the selected at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents; and causing the at least a portion of the identified subset of product review contents to be displayed on a client device in a user interface area dedicated for the product description of the product.
</claims>
</document>
