<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K15/00,G06K15/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATSUZAWA, TOMOKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING DEVICE, PRINT CONTROL DEVICE, AND LEARNED MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A learning device includes an acquiring unit and a learning unit. The acquiring unit acquires an image and correction information designated for printing the image. The learning unit performs machine learning on recommended correction information that indicates correction content recommended for the print target image in printing the print target image, based on the data set in which the image is associated with the correction information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning device comprising: an acquiring unit that acquires an image and correction information designated for printing the image; and a learning unit that performs machine learning on recommended correction information recommended for correction on a print target image, based on a data set in which the image is associated with the correction information.
2. The learning device according to claim 1, further comprising: a processing unit that outputs the recommended correction information corresponding to the print target image, based on a learned model generated by the machine learning of the learning unit, and performs correction processing based on the recommended correction information.
3. The learning device according to claim 1, further comprising: a presenting unit that presents a user with a plurality of sample images obtained by performing correction based on different pieces of correction information on a given original sample image, wherein the learning unit sets a parameter to be learned by the learning unit by performing machine learning based on a data set in which the correction information corresponding to the sample image selected from the plurality of sample images is associated with the original sample image.
4. The learning device according to claim 3, wherein the presenting unit presents a plurality of sample images obtained by performing correction based on different pieces of correction information on a first original sample image, and presents a plurality of sample images obtained by performing correction based on different pieces of correction information on a second original sample image of a type different from the first original sample image.
5. The learning device according to claim 1, further comprising: a presenting unit that presents a user with an original sample image, wherein the acquiring unit acquires the correction information input by the user based on the original sample image presented, and the learning unit sets a parameter to be learned by the learning unit by performing machine learning based on a data set in which the original sample image is associated with the correction information input by the user.
6. The learning device according to claim 2, further comprising: a presenting unit that presents the print target image after the correction processing based on the recommended correction information is performed by the processing unit, wherein the learning unit performs machine learning based on a data set in which the print target image before the correction processing is associated with modified correction information when the recommended correction information is modified and an instruction to select the correction information different from the recommended correction information is given based on the print target image presented by the presenting unit.
7. The learning device according to claim 6, wherein the presenting unit displays a screen for receiving a user input related to appropriateness of modification with respect to the recommended correction information when the recommended correction information is modified, an instruction to select the correction information different from the recommended correction information is given, and the print target image corrected by the modified correction information is printed, and the learning unit skips machine learning based on the data set in which the print target image is associated with the modified correction information when a user input indicating that the modification with respect to the recommended correction information is inappropriate is given, based on a display of the screen by the presenting unit.
8. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the learning unit performs machine learning on the recommended correction information based on a data set in which the image is associated with the correction information and print output destination information that indicates a print output destination.
9. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the correction information includes a color density.
10. The learning device according to claim 1, wherein the learning unit generates a learned model by the machine learning, the learned model has an input layer, an intermediate layer, and an output layer, weighting coefficients between the input layer and the intermediate layer and between the intermediate layer and the output layer are set in the learned model based on a data set in which the image is associated with the correction information designated for printing the image, and the learned model causes a computer to input, to the input layer, data about the print target image, perform an arithmetic operation based on the weighting coefficients being set, and output, from the output layer, data that indicates the recommended correction information.
11. A print control device for controlling printing of a printing apparatus, the print control device comprising: a storage unit that stores a learned model obtained by performing machine learning on recommended correction information recommended for correction on a print target image, based on a data set in which an image is associated with correction information designated for printing the image; a receiving unit that receives an input of the print target image; and a processing unit that determines, based on the learned model, the recommended correction information corresponding to the input print target image.
12. A learned model for determining, based on an input print target image, correction setting of the input print target image, the learned model comprising: an input layer, an intermediate layer, and an output layer, wherein weighting coefficients between the input layer and the intermediate layer and between the intermediate layer and the output layer are set based on a data set in which an image is associated with correction information designated for printing the image, and the learned model causes a computer to input, to the input layer, data about the input print target image, perform an arithmetic operation based on the weighting coefficients being set, and output, from the output layer, data that indicates recommended correction information recommended for correction on the print target image.
</claims>
</document>
