<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/36,G06F16/38,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIPRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
Jose, Juby
Kuzmik, Roman
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DETERMINING A POTENTIAL SUPPLIER FOR A PROJECT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is related to field of data analytics and machine learning, disclosing method and system for determining a potential supplier for a project. Supplier determining system extracts entities and qualifying phrases corresponding to entities from input data using predefined ontology related to domain of the project. Subsequently, the supplier determining system generates data models by annotating each qualifying phrase corresponding to the entities with a label and further, generates weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each data model that correlates suppliers, entities and assessing attributes of the suppliers, wherein weightage may be determined based on each label to indicate degree of correlation. Finally, the supplier determining system may recommend a potential supplier by ranking each supplier based on requirements queried by a user for the project and based on the degree of correlation. The present disclosure is adaptable to any domain of the project for determining a potential supplier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a potential supplier for a project, the method comprising: receiving, by a supplier determining system, input data related to a plurality of suppliers from one or more data sources associated with the supplier determining system, wherein the plurality of suppliers are related to a domain of a project; extracting, by the supplier determining system, one or more entities and qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities from the input data using a predefined ontology related to the domain; generating, by the supplier determining system, one or more data models by annotating each of the qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities with a label; generating, by the supplier determining system, a weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each of the one or more data models that correlates the plurality of suppliers, the one or more entities and assessing attributes of the plurality of suppliers, wherein weightage in the weighted knowledge graph is determined based on each label to indicate a degree of correlation; and recommending, by the supplier determining system, a potential supplier from the plurality of suppliers by ranking each of the plurality of suppliers based on one or more requirements queried by a user for the project and based on the degree of correlation inferred from each weighted knowledge graph.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the assessing attributes of the plurality of suppliers are at least one of capabilities of the plurality of suppliers, experience of the plurality of suppliers, location of the plurality of suppliers, previous engagements of the plurality of suppliers, strengths, weaknesses and risks of the plurality of suppliers, market reputation of the plurality of suppliers, expertise of the plurality of suppliers, infrastructure details of the plurality of suppliers or team size of the plurality of suppliers.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more entities are extracted upon normalizing and structuring the input data using predefined techniques.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more data models are generated using machine learning techniques that are pre-trained based on the input data, and the one or more entities and the qualifying phrases extracted from the input data.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the label comprises at least one of Excellent, Good, Satisfactory or Bad.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprises predicting, by the supplier determining system, progress of the plurality of suppliers based on the input data and the weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each of the plurality of suppliers.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the ranking of the plurality of suppliers varies dynamically when the one or more requirements are modified by the user.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the one or more data sources comprises at least one of internal data sources or external data sources.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data related to the plurality of suppliers received from internal data sources is data stored within an organization developing the project, wherein the internal data sources comprises at least one of site visit reports, previous experience of working with the plurality of suppliers, feedback of employees on work quality of the plurality of suppliers or tenders received from the plurality of suppliers.
10. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data related to the plurality of suppliers received from external data sources is data obtained from outside an organization developing the project, wherein the external data sources comprises at least one of forums, articles, publications, online magazines and newspapers, and websites of the plurality of suppliers.
11. A supplier determining system for determining a potential supplier for a project, the supplier determining system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the memory stores the processor-executable instructions, which, on execution, causes the processor to: receive input data related to a plurality of suppliers from one or more data sources associated with the supplier determining system, wherein the plurality of suppliers is related to a domain of a project; extract one or more entities and qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities from the input data using a predefined ontology related to the domain; generate one or more data models by annotating each of the qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities with a label; generate a weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each of the one or more data models that correlates the plurality of suppliers, the one or more entities and assessing attributes of the plurality of suppliers, wherein weightage in the weighted knowledge graph is determined based on each label to indicate a degree of correlation; and recommend a potential supplier from the plurality of suppliers by ranking each of the plurality of suppliers based on one or more requirements queried by a user for the project and based on the degree of correlation inferred from each weighted knowledge graph.
12. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the assessing attributes of the plurality of suppliers are at least one of capabilities of the plurality of suppliers, experience of the plurality of suppliers, location of the plurality of suppliers, previous engagements of the plurality of suppliers, strengths, weaknesses and risks of the plurality of suppliers, market reputation of the plurality of suppliers, expertise of the plurality of suppliers, infrastructure details of the plurality of suppliers or team size of the plurality of suppliers.
13. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the one or more entities are extracted upon normalizing and structuring the input data using predefined techniques.
14. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the one or more data models are generated using machine learning techniques that are pre-trained based on the input data, and the one or more entities and the qualifying phrases extracted from the input data.
15. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to predict progress of the plurality of suppliers based on the input data and the weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each of the plurality of suppliers.
16. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the ranking of the plurality of suppliers varies dynamically when the one or more requirements are modified by the user.
17. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the one or more data sources comprises at least one of internal data sources or external data sources.
18. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the input data related to the plurality of suppliers received from internal data sources is data stored within an organization developing the project, wherein the internal data sources comprises at least one of site visit reports, previous experience of working with the plurality of suppliers, feedback of employees on work quality of the plurality of suppliers or tenders received from the plurality of suppliers.
19. The supplier determining system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the input data related to the plurality of suppliers received from external data sources is data obtained from outside an organization developing the project, wherein the external data sources comprises at least one of forums, articles, publications, online magazines and newspapers, and websites of the plurality of suppliers.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor causes a supplier determining system to perform operations comprising: receiving input data related to a plurality of suppliers from one or more data sources associated with the supplier determining system, wherein the plurality of suppliers are related to a domain of a project; extracting one or more entities and qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities from the input data using a predefined ontology related to the domain; generating one or more data models by annotating each of the qualifying phrases corresponding to the one or more entities with a label; generating a weighted knowledge graph corresponding to each of the one or more data models that correlates the plurality of suppliers, the one or more entities and assessing attributes of the plurality of suppliers, wherein weightage in the weighted knowledge graph is determined based on each label to indicate a degree of correlation; and recommending a potential supplier from the plurality of suppliers by ranking each of the plurality of suppliers based on one or more requirements queried by a user for the project and based on the degree of correlation inferred from each weighted knowledge graph.
</claims>
</document>
