<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12M1/34,C12M1/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LONZA
BREIT, Jeffrey Francis
SCHMITT, John
DOWNEY, Brandon John
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREIT, Jeffrey Francis
DOWNEY, Brandon John
SCHMITT, John Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64650550
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROCESS AND SYSTEM FOR PROPAGATING CELL CULTURES WHILE PREVENTING LACTATE ACCUMULATION
</title>

<abstract>
A predictive model is described that can predict parameter concentrations in the future based on initial, measured concentrations and historical data. A plurality of multivariate techniques can be used to construct the predictive model capable of forecasting concentrations over multiple and diverse cell lines. The predictive model is also scalable. In one embodiment, a future lactate concentration trajectory is determined and at least one condition within a bioreactor is changed or modified to maintain lactate concentration within desired ranges.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A process for propagating a cell culture comprising; determining a concentration of one or more quality attributes selected from the group consisting of lactate, a protein, glycan, a charge variant, an aggregate, disulfide oxidation, and a disulfide shuffling variant, in a cell culture; measuring at least one attribute influencing parameter within the cell culture; sending the quality attribute concentration and the at least one attribute influencing parameter measurement to a controller, the controller including a predictive model that calculates a future concentration of the quality attribute in the cell culture; and selectively changing at least one condition within the cell culture based upon the calculated future concentration of the quality attribute in the cell culture for maintaining the quality attribute concentration within preset limits.
2. A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the attribute influencing parameter is selected from the group consisting of pH, glutamate concentration, glucose concentration, asparagine concentration, temperature, and nutrient feed rate.
3. A process as defined in claim 1, wherein the predictive model determines future concentration using at least two different multivariate methods.
4. A process for propagating a cell culture comprising: determining a concentration of lactate in a cell culture; measuring at least one lactate influencing parameter within the cell culture; sending the lactate concentration and the at least one lactate influencing parameter measurement to a controller, the controller including a predictive model that calculates a future concentration of lactate in the cell culture; and selectively changing at least one condition within the cell culture based upon the calculated future concentration of lactate in the cell culture for maintaining lactate concentration within preset limits.
5. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the lactate influencing parameter comprises pH, glutamate concentration, glucose concentration, asparagine concentration, temperature, and/or nutrient feed rate.
6. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein at least two lactate influencing parameters are measured and the measured data are sent to the controller and used for calculating the future concentration of lactate in the cell culture.
7. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the at least one condition is selectively changed by changing a nutrient media being fed to the cell culture.
8. A process as defined in claim 7, wherein the nutrient media comprises a carbohydrate source, an amino acid source, a vitamin, a lipid, a protein, a peptide, or mixtures thereof.
9. A process as defined in claim 7, wherein the nutrient media being fed to the cell culture is changed by changing a flow rate of the nutrient media to the cell culture.
10. A process as defined in claim 9, wherein in addition to changing the nutrient media being fed to the cell culture, a pH of the cell culture is also selectively changed in order to maintain lactate concentration within preset limits.
11. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the cell culture has an incubation period prior to being harvested, and wherein the predictive model forecasts a final lactate concentration at the end of the incubation period.
12. A process as defined in claim 11, wherein the at least one condition within the cell culture is selectively changed during the incubation period such that the final lactate concentration of the cell culture at the end of the incubation period is less than about 2 g/L.
13. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the process results in an increase in titer concentration of the cell culture.
14. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the cell culture contains mammalian cells.
15. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the cell culture is propagated in a batch process for from about 12 hours to about 28 days and then harvested.
16. A process as defined in claim 15, wherein the lactate concentration in the cell culture is calculated for from about 12 hours to about 4 days, prior to the controller calculating a future concentration of lactate in the cell culture.
17. A process as defined in claim 15, wherein the batch process includes an incubation time prior to harvesting the cell culture, and wherein the lactate concentration is measured for from about 5% to about 40% of the incubation time prior to the controller calculating a future concentration of lactate in the cell culture.
18. A process as defined in claim 15, wherein the lactate concentration is calculated at least every 12 hours, all of the lactate concentration data being fed to the controller and wherein the controller is configured to repeatedly calculate the future concentration of lactate in the cell culture as further data is received.
19. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the predictive model is based on comparing lactate concentration to prior reference data.
20. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the future concentration of lactate is calculated by the predictive model from a square deviation of lactate concentration predicted from a prescribed reference trajectory.
21. A process as defined in claim 20, wherein the predictive concentration of lactate is also calculated based on square deviation in changes of the at least one lactate influencing parameter.
22. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the future concentration of lactate is calculated using one or more techniques selected from partial squares analysis, classification trees, support vector determinations, linear discriminant analysis, or mixtures thereof.
23. A process as defined in claim 4, wherein the future concentration of lactate is calculated by the controller using a reduced order time varying autoregressive exogenous model.
24. A process as defined in claim 20, wherein the predictive model applies weighting to the difference between a predicted output and the referenced trajectory for each day.
25. A system for propagating a cell culture comprising: a bioreactor defining a hollow interior for receiving a cell culture, the bioreactor including a plurality of ports for feeding and/or removing materials from the hollow interior; a nutrient media feed for feeding a nutrient media to the hollow interior of the bioreactor, the nutrient media feed being in fluid communication with at least one of the ports on the bioreactor; a controller being configured to receive lactate concentration measurements of a cell culture contained in the bioreactor, the controller also being configured to receive measurements of at least one lactate influencing parameter, the controller including a predictive model that determines a future concentration of lactate in a cell culture contained in the bioreactor, the controller being configured to control the nutrient media feed for selectively increasing or decreasing flow of a nutrient media into the bioreactor based upon the predicted lactate concentration for maintaining the lactate concentration within preset limits.
26. (canceled)
27. (canceled)
28. (canceled)
29. (canceled)
30. (canceled)
31. (canceled)
32. The process as defined in claim 1, comprising measuring a change with time of the at least one attribute influencing parameter.
33. The process as defined in claim 4, comprising measuring a change with time of the at least one lactate influencing parameter.
34. The process as defined in claim 1, wherein the controller operates in a closed loop control system, where adjustments to input and/or output devices connected to a bioreactor including the cell culture are completely automated.
35. The process as defined in claim 4, wherein the controller operates in a closed loop control system, where adjustments to input and/or output devices connected to a bioreactor including the cell culture are completely automated.
</claims>
</document>
