<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L15/06,G10L15/16,G10L15/22,G10L25/84,H03G5/16,H04R29/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, HYEON SIK
LEE, KEUN SANG
SEO, JAE PIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070478
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACOUSTIC CONTROL SYSTEM, APPARATUS AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an acoustic control method for operating an acoustic control system and apparatus by executing artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms and/or machine learning algorithms in a 5G environment connected for Internet of Things. An acoustic control method for adjusting a sound according to an embodiment of the present disclosure may include collecting one or more acoustic signals in a vehicle through at least one microphone provided in the vehicle, analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle, and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of an acoustic service being outputted through a speaker provided in the vehicle in response to the analyzed acoustic signals in the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An acoustic control method for adjusting a sound, the acoustic control method comprising: collecting one or more acoustic signals in a vehicle through at least one microphone provided in the vehicle; analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle; and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of an acoustic service being outputted through a speaker provided in the vehicle in response to the analyzed acoustic signals in the vehicle.
2. The acoustic control method of claim 1, wherein the collecting of the acoustic signals in the vehicle comprises removing at least one output acoustic signal, inputted to the speaker to be outputted through the speaker, among the acoustic signals in the vehicle.
3. The acoustic control method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing of the acoustic signals in the vehicle comprises determining whether the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise or abnormal noise using a first deep neural network model that has been trained in advance to determine whether the acoustic signals are normal noise or abnormal noise generated in the vehicle by analyzing features of the acoustic signals, wherein the first deep neural network model is trained through training data in which big data on sounds normally generated in a vehicle are labeled as normal noise.
4. The acoustic control method of claim 3, further comprising, prior to the collecting of the acoustic signals in the vehicle through at least one microphone provided in the vehicle: registering a spoken utterance of a user of the vehicle through the microphone; and training a deep neural network for speech discrimination with the spoken utterance of the user to thereby generate a second deep neural network model capable of discriminating the spoken utterance of the user.
5. The acoustic control method of claim 4, wherein the adjusting comprises: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of the user, generating a first acoustic event signal; activating a speech recognition service in response to the first acoustic event signal; detecting acoustic signals other than the spoken utterance of the user among the acoustic signals in the vehicle; and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of at least one spoken response utterance signal corresponding to the spoken utterance of the user in response to a magnitude and waveform of the noise.
6. The acoustic control method of claim 4, wherein the adjusting comprises: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of the user and a spoken utterance of another passenger, generating a second acoustic event; deactivating a speech recognition service in response to the second acoustic event signal; detecting sounds of the spoken utterance of the user and the spoken utterance of the other passenger among the acoustic signals, as noise; and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
7. The acoustic control method of claim 4, wherein the adjusting comprises: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of another passenger other than the user, generating a third acoustic event signal; deactivating a speech recognition service in response to the third acoustic event signal; detecting the spoken utterance of the other passenger among the acoustic signals, as noise; and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
8. The acoustic control method of claim 4, wherein the adjusting comprises: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first deep neural network model, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the acoustic service, generating a fourth acoustic event signal; deactivating a speech recognition service in response to the fourth acoustic event signal; detecting acoustic signals other than the acoustic service, among the acoustic signals in the vehicle, as noise; and adjusting volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
9. The acoustic control method of claim 4, wherein the adjusting comprises: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first deep neural network model, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are abnormal noise including external environmental noise generated in the vehicle, generating a fifth acoustic event signal; and in response to the fifth acoustic event, adjusting volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the abnormal noise within a predetermined range on the basis of a user setting state.
10. The acoustic control method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a driving mode of the vehicle, and wherein the adjusting comprises adjusting volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the driving mode of the vehicle.
11. An acoustic control apparatus configured to adjust a sound, the acoustic control apparatus comprising: a collector configured to collect one or more acoustic signals in a vehicle through at least one microphone provided in the vehicle; a determiner configured to analyze the acoustic signals in the vehicle; and an adjuster configured to adjust volume and equalizer settings of an acoustic service being outputted through a speaker provided in the vehicle in response to the analyzed acoustic signals in the vehicle.
12. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 11, wherein the collector is configured to remove at least one output acoustic signal, inputted to the speaker to be outputted through the speaker, among the acoustic signals in the vehicle.
13. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 11, wherein the determiner is configured to determine whether the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise or abnormal noise using a first deep neural network model that has been trained in advance to determine whether the acoustic signals are normal noise or abnormal noise generated in the vehicle by analyzing features of the acoustic signals, and wherein the first deep neural network model is trained through training data in which big data on sounds normally generated in a vehicle are labeled as normal noise.
14. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 13, wherein the acoustic control apparatus is configured to, prior to collecting one or more acoustic signals in the vehicle through the microphone provided in the vehicle, register a spoken utterance of a user of the vehicle through the microphone and train a deep neural network for speech discrimination with the spoken utterance of the user to thereby generate a second deep neural network model capable of discriminating the spoken utterance of the user.
15. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 11, wherein the adjuster is configured to: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of the user, generate a first acoustic event signal; activate a speech recognition service in response to the first acoustic event signal; detect acoustic signals other than the spoken utterance of the user among the acoustic signals in the vehicle; and adjust volume and equalizer settings of at least one spoken response utterance signal corresponding to the spoken utterance of the user in response to a magnitude and waveform of the noise.
16. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 14, wherein the adjuster is configured to: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of the user and a spoken utterance of another passenger, generate a second acoustic event signal; deactivate a speech recognition service in response to the second acoustic event signal; detect sounds of the spoken utterance of the user and the spoken utterance of the other passenger among the acoustic signals, as noise; and adjust volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
17. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 14, wherein the adjuster is configured to: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first and second deep neural network models, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the spoken utterance of another passenger other than the user, generate a third acoustic event signal; deactivate a speech recognition service in response to the third acoustic event signal; detect the spoken utterance of the other passenger among the acoustic signals, as noise; and adjust volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
18. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 14, wherein the adjuster is configured to: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first deep neural network model, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise including the acoustic service, generate a fourth acoustic event signal; deactivate a speech recognition service in response to the fourth acoustic event signal; detect acoustic signals other than the acoustic service, among the acoustic signals in the vehicle, as noise; and adjust volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to the magnitude and waveform of the noise.
19. The acoustic control apparatus of claim 14, wherein the adjuster is configured to: as a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle by using the first deep neural network model, when the acoustic signals in the vehicle are abnormal noise including external environmental noise generated in the vehicle, generate a fifth acoustic event signal; and in response to the fifth acoustic event, adjust volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to a magnitude and waveform of the abnormal noise within a predetermined range on the basis of a user setting state.
20. An acoustic control system for adjusting a sound, the acoustic control system comprising: at least one microphone configured to collect acoustic signals in a vehicle, generated in the vehicle; a speaker configured to output an acoustic service in the vehicle; and a sound processor configured to analyze acoustic signals in the vehicle, collected from the microphone, and adjust volume and equalizer settings of the acoustic service in response to a result of analyzing the acoustic signals in the vehicle, wherein the sound processor is configured to determine whether the acoustic signals in the vehicle are normal noise or abnormal noise using a first deep neural network model that has been trained in advance to determine whether the acoustic signals are normal noise or abnormal noise generated in the vehicle by analyzing features of the acoustic signals, and wherein the first deep neural network model is trained through training data in which big data on sounds normally generated in a vehicle are labeled as normal noise.
</claims>
</document>
