<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/02,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MASTERCARD TECHNOLOGIES CANADA ULC
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUKASHUK, RANDY
LAPTIEV, ANTON
WU, HANHAN
OPUSHNYEV, IGOR
HEARTY, JOHN
BAILEY, CHRISTOPHER
CHAN, SIK SUEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72236278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-PAGE ONLINE APPLICATION ORIGINATION (OAO) SERVICE FOR FRAUD PREVENTION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A fraud prevention system that includes a fraud prevention server including an electronic processor and a memory. The memory includes an online application origination (OAO) service. When executing the OAO service, the electronic processor is configured to determine whether the OAO service is enabled and whether a website configuration includes a list of multi-page placements for an online application, determine that input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into multi-page input data, determine a fraud risk score of the online application based on the multi-page input data and an online application origination (OAO) model that differentiates between a behavior of a normal user and a behavior of a nefarious actor during a submission of the online application on a device, and control a client server to approve, hold, or deny the online application based on the fraud risk score that is determined.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A fraud prevention system comprising: a fraud prevention server including an electronic processor and a memory, the memory including an online application origination (OAO) service, wherein, when executing the OAO service, the electronic processor is configured to determine whether the OAO service is enabled, determine whether a website configuration includes a list of multi-page placements for an online application, determine that input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into multi-page input data in response to determining that the OAO service is enabled and that the website configuration includes the list of multi-page placements for the online application, determine a fraud risk score of the online application based on the multi-page input data and an online application origination (OAO) model that differentiates between a behavior of a normal user and a behavior of a nefarious actor during a submission of the online application on a device, and control a client server to approve, hold, or deny the online application based on the fraud risk score that is determined.
2. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the electronic processor is further configured to determine whether the website configuration includes an additional specific webpage placement that is configured as multi-page flow, and determine that an additional set of input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into the multipage input data in response to determining that the website configuration includes the additional specific webpage placement that is configured as the multi-page flow.
3. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with mouse movement behavioral features, and wherein the mouse movement behavioral features include a standard deviation of a mouse click in a X direction feature.
4. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include a time from last key to submission feature.
5. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include a coefficient of variation of keystroke rate across all fields in a form of the online application feature.
6. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with mouse movement behavioral features, and wherein the mouse movement behavioral features further include a standard deviation of a mouse click in a Y direction feature.
7. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include an average number of mouse clicks per field of the form feature.
8. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include an amount of time on page feature.
9. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with mouse movement behavioral features, and wherein the mouse movement behavioral features further include a total mouse distance feature.
10. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include a ratio of time spent in fields of the form to the overall time on page feature.
11. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include an average keystroke rate standard deviation feature.
12. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include an average of time between focus and first keystroke feature.
13. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with navigation behavioral features, and wherein the navigation behavioral features further include a total mouse click count feature.
14. The fraud prevention system of claim 1, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with non-behavioral features.
15. The fraud prevention system of claim 14, wherein the non-behavioral features further include a proxy concealed detection feature.
16. A method for operating a fraud prevention system, the method comprising: determining, with an electronic processor of a fraud prevention server, whether an online application origination (OAO) service is enabled; determining, with the electronic processor, whether a website configuration includes a list of multi-page placements for an online application; determining, with the electronic processor, that input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into multi-page input data in response to determining that the OAO service is enabled and that the website configuration includes the list of multi-page placements for the online application; determining, with the electronic processor, a fraud risk score of the online application based on the multi-page input data and an online application origination (OAO) model that differentiates between a behavior of a normal user and a behavior of a nefarious actor during a submission of the online application on a device; and controlling, with the electronic processor, a client server to approve, hold, or deny the online application based on the fraud risk score that is determined.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining, with the electronic processor, whether the website configuration includes an additional specific webpage placement that is configured as multi-page flow, and determining, with the electronic processor, that an additional set of input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into the multipage input data in response to determining that the website configuration includes the additional specific webpage placement that is configured as the multi-page flow.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the OAO model includes a feature set with behavioral features, wherein the behavioral features include a standard deviation of a mouse click in a X direction feature.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a fraud prevention server, causes the fraud prevention server to perform a set of operations comprising: determining whether the OAO service is enabled, determining whether a website configuration includes a list of multi-page placements for an online application, determining that input profile record data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into multi-page input data in response to determining that the OAO service is enabled and that the website configuration includes the list of multi-page placements for the online application, determining a fraud risk score of the online application based on the multi-page input data and an online application origination (OAO) model that differentiates between a behavior of a normal user and a behavior of a nefarious actor during a submission of the online application on a device, and controlling a client server to approve, hold, or deny the online application based on the fraud risk score that is determined.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the set of operations further includes determining whether the website configuration includes an additional specific webpage placement that is configured as multi-page flow, and determining that an additional set of input data needs to be stored in the memory and combined into the multipage input data in response to determining that the website configuration includes the additional specific webpage placement that is configured as the multi-page flow.
</claims>
</document>
