<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KADIR, TIMOR
DECLERCK, JEROME
OPTELLUM
PICKUP, LYNDSEY
POTESIL, VACLAV
</assignee>

<inventors>
KADIR, TIMOR
DECLERCK, JEROME
PICKUP, LYNDSEY
POTESIL, VACLAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60244261
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR DERIVING A SET OF TRAINING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A Computer Aided Diagnosis, CAD, training system (400) is described for training a CAD device (310) to receive and process at least one input medical image and produce an output that indicates a probability of a medical condition of a patient. The CAD device (310) comprises: an input circuit (305) configured to receive and assemble training data that comprises: medical data of patients that have been identified as having at least one medical condition, and medical data of patients that have been identified as not having the at least one medical condition. A parsing circuit (315) is configured to: separate the assembled training data into data sets, such that a first data set contains only the medical data of patients that have the at least one medical condition and a second data set contains only the medical data of patients that do not have the condition; and parse at least one of the data sets into at least two subsets (328), whereby a first subset is distinguished over a second subset of the at least two subsets (328) by at least one attribute. A data classifier circuit (330) is configured to associate different weights to the separated assembled training data, such that the first subset is prioritised during training of the CAD device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-11. (canceled)
12. A Computer Aided Diagnosis, CAD, training system for training a CAD device to receive and process at least one input medical image and produce an output that indicates a probability of a medical condition of a patient; wherein the CAD device comprises: an input circuit configured to receive and assemble training data that comprises: medical data of patients that have been identified as having at least one medical condition, and medical data of patients that have been identified as not having the at least one medical condition; a parsing circuit coupled to the input circuit and configured to: separate the assembled training data into data sets, such that a first data set contains only the medical data of patients that have the at least one medical condition and a second data set contains only the medical data of patients that do not have the condition; and parse at least one of the data sets into at least two subsets, whereby a first subset is distinguished over a second subset of the at least two subsets by at least one attribute; and a data classifier circuit coupled to the parsing circuit and configured to associate different weights to the separated assembled training data, such that the first subset is prioritised during training of the CAD device.
13. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the at least one attribute that distinguishes between the first subset and second subset is a clinical attribute or a radiological attribute and subsets that share the at least one attribute are prioritised during a training process as being easier to classify as data in relation to the at least one medical condition as patient medical data that can be discarded from further review by a clinician.
14. The CAD device training system of claim 12 wherein the parsed at least two subsets of data comprise at least two from a group of: (i) Radiologically Positive data cases, RP, that identify a set of data cases that are considered to contain disease; (ii) Radiologically Negative data cases, RN, that identify a set of data cases that are considered to not contain disease; and (iii) Radiologically Indeterminate data cases, RI, that are neither RP nor RN, but are recommended for follow-up imaging.
15. The CAD device training system of claim 14, wherein the parsed at least two subsets of data are determined as RP, RI or RN by comparing the separated assembled training data with data from one of the following databases: a Picture Archival and Communication System, PACS), Radiological Information System, RIS, and Electronic Medical Record, EMR.
16. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the classifier circuit includes a feature extraction circuit arranged to extract features of the separated assembled training data and use data analysis techniques to identify features of patient medical data that group together as being easier to classify in relation to the at least one medical condition that can be discarded from further review by a clinician.
17. The CAD device training system of claim 16, wherein the identified features of patient medical data that group together comprise features that are a distance greater than a feature space threshold from positive cases that require further review by a clinician.
18. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the data classifier circuit is configured to update weights associated to the separated assembled training data over iterative training operations.
19. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the medical data comprises at least one from a group of: medical images, blood test results, genetic profiling.
20. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the classifier circuit is configured as one from a group of: a Random Forest, Support vector machine, a Convolutional Neural Network.
21. The CAD device training system of claim 12, wherein the classifier circuit is configured to associate a second weight to the data subsets or at least one attribute of the separated assembled training data, such that the second subset is not prioritised during training.
22. A method of training a Computer Aided Diagnosis, CAD, device, the method comprising: receiving and assembling training data that comprises medical data of patients that have been identified as having at least one medical condition and medical data of patients that have been identified as not having the at least one medical condition; separating the assembled training data into data sets such that a first data set contains only the medical data of patients that have the at least one medical condition and a second data set contains only the medical data of patients that do not have the condition; parsing at least one of the data sets into at least two subsets, whereby a first subset is distinguished over a second subset of the at least two subsets by at least one attribute; associating different weights to the separated assembled training data, such that the first subset is prioritised during training.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein at least one attribute that distinguishes between the first subset and second subset is a clinical attribute or a radiological attribute, the method further comprising: prioritising subsets that share the at least one attribute during a training process as being easier to classify as data in relation to the at least one medical condition as patient medical data that can be discarded from further review by a clinician.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the parsed at least two subsets of data comprise at least two from a group of: (i) Radiologically Positive data cases, RP, that identify a set of data cases that are considered to contain disease; (ii) Radiologically Negative data cases, RN, that identify a set of data cases that are considered to not contain disease; and (iii) Radiologically Indeterminate data cases, RI, that are neither RP nor RN, but are recommended for follow-up imaging.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the parsed at least two subsets of data comprises determining the at least two subsets of data as RP, RI or RN by comparing the separated assembled training data with data from one of the following databases: a Picture Archival and Communication System, PACS, Radiological Information System, RIS, and Electronic Medical Record, EMR.
26. The method of claim 22, further comprising: extracting features of the separated assembled training data; and identifying features of patient medical data that group together as being easier to classify in relation to the at least one medical condition that can be discarded from further review by a clinician.
27. The method of claim 22, wherein the identified features of patient medical data that group together comprise features that are a distance greater than a feature space threshold from positive cases that require further review by a clinician.
28. The method of claim 22, further comprising updating weights associated to the separated assembled training data over iterative training operations.
29. The method of claim 22, wherein the medical data comprises at least one from a group of: medical images, blood test results, genetic profiling.
30. The method of claim 22, wherein associating different weights to the separated assembled training data associates according to one from a group of: a Random Forest, Support vector machine, a Convolutional Neural Network.
31. The method of claim 22, associating different weights to the separated assembled training data comprises associating a second weight to the data subsets or at least one attribute of the separated assembled training data, such that the second subset is not prioritised during training.
</claims>
</document>
