<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12M1/00,C12M1/34,C12M1/36,C12M3/00,C12M3/06,C12N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAWYER, WALLACE, GREGORY
PITENIS, ANGELA ATHENA
Famiglietti, Jack E.
Hood, Derek L.
McGhee, Alexander
Levings, Padraic P.
Jobin, Christian
Urueña, Juan Manuel
Smolchek, Ryan A.
Marshall, Samantha Lauren
Dougherty, Michael
Van Meter, Kylie E.
McGhee, Eric O.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046970
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERFUSION ENABLED BIOREACTORS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a bioreactor system that allows active perfusive flow through a porous support medium enabling 3D growth of biological samples. In some embodiments, the system comprises a sample well filled with a three-dimensional (3D) cell growth medium. The system can further comprise a liquid medium reservoir fluidly connected to the sample well by a first filter material. The system can further comprises a medium collection chamber fluidly connected to the sample well by a second filter material. In some embodiments, application of negative gage pressure to the medium collection chamber or positive pressure to the liquid medium reservoir draws fluid from the liquid medium reservoir, through the first filter material, into the sample well where it permeates the three-dimensional cell growth medium, through the second filter material, and finally into the medium collection chamber.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A microscopy-enabled bioreactor system, comprising: one or more bioreactor units, wherein each of the one or more bioreactor units comprises: a sample well filled with a three-dimensional (3D) cell growth medium, wherein the 3D cell culture medium comprises a plurality of hydrogel particles and a liquid cell culture medium, wherein the hydrogel particles are swelled with the liquid cell culture medium to form a granular gel, and a medium collection chamber fluidly connected to the sample well by a first filter material; wherein the system is configured so that application of negative gage pressure to the medium collection chamber or positive pressure to the sample well actively permeates fluid from the sample well through the three-dimensional cell growth medium, through the first filter material, and finally into the medium collection chamber; wherein the first filter material has a porosity smaller than the size of the swollen hydrogel particles, wherein the bottom of the sample well is optically transparent.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a liquid medium reservoir fluidly connected to the sample well by a second filter material, wherein the system is further configured so that the application of negative gage pressure to the medium collection chamber or positive pressure to the liquid medium reservoir perfuses fluid from the liquid medium reservoir, through the second filter material then through the three-dimensional cell growth medium, through the first filter material, and finally into the medium collection chamber
3. (canceled)
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising a vacuum apparatus operably connected to the medium collection chamber.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the vacuum apparatus comprises a screw-driven actuator, the screw-driven actuator comprising a set actuation screw rotatably mounted within the medium collection chamber configured to actively provide negative gauge pressure to the medium collection chamber.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the medium collection chamber comprises a vacuum port fluidly connected to the medium collection chamber that is releasably connectable to a vacuum apparatus.
7. The system of claim 1, comprising an array of isolated sample wells.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein each of the isolated sample wells in the array are fluidly connected to separate liquid medium reservoirs.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein each of the isolated sample wells in the array are fluidly connected to the same liquid medium reservoir.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the system has an annular arrangement comprising an outer ring, a middle ring, and a central chamber, wherein the liquid medium reservoirs is located in the outer ring, wherein the sample well is located in the middle ring, and wherein the center chamber is the medium collection chamber.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the system has an annular arrangement comprising an outer ring and a central chamber, wherein the sample well is located in the central chamber, wherein the medium collection chamber is located in the outer ring, and wherein the liquid medium reservoirs is located above the sample well in the central chamber.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the three-dimensional cell growth medium has a yield stress such that the cell growth medium undergoes a phase change from a first solid phase to a second liquid phase upon application of a shear stress greater than the yield stress.
13. 13-15. (canceled)
16. The system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of cells are disposed in a region of the 3D cell culture medium.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more bioreactor units are configured for a horizontal flow path of fluid from the liquid medium reservoir to the sample well to the medium collection chamber.
18. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pipette guide configured to receive a pipette tip and provide a fixed height from the bottom of the sample well to the distal end of the pipette tip.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more bioreactor units are discrete units not in fluidic communication with one another having a horizontal flow path of fluid from liquid reservoir to sample well to medium collection chamber.
20. The system of claim 1, further comprising a cassette configured to securely store and transport a plurality of discrete bioreactor units.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the discrete units comprises three or more apertures or annular frustroconical recesses on a bottom surface configured to receive a protrusion extending toward the top of the discrete unit.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the cassette comprises a chamber configured to receive a plurality of bioreactor units, the chamber having a bottom surface with a plurality of recesses, each recess of the plurality configured to securely seat an individual bioreactor unit.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the recesses of the bottom surface comprises three or more tapered frustroconical posts extending upwards from the bottom surface and tapering towards an end distal to the bottom surface, each of the tapered posts configured to protrude into and securely mate with the apertures or annular frustroconical recesses of the discrete bioreactor units.
24. The system of claim 19, wherein the cassette further comprises a gas port.
25. The system of claim 20, wherein the cassette is operably connected to a heat source.
26. 26-31. (canceled)
32. The system of claim 17, further comprising an injection port for drug delivery in fluid connection with the horizontal flow path positioned in the flow path between the liquid reservoir and the sample reservoir.
33. 33-42. (canceled)
43. A high-throughput bioreactor system, comprising: a well plate, wherein the well plate comprises a plurality of apertures, each of the plurality of apertures comprising a sample well filled with a three-dimensional (3D) cell growth medium, wherein the 3D cell culture medium comprises a plurality of hydrogel particles and a liquid cell culture medium, wherein the hydrogel particles are swelled with the liquid cell culture medium to form a granular gel; a filter; a center plate, the center plate comprising a plurality of apertures; and a base plate, the base plate comprising one or more medium collection chambers fluidly connected to the sample well by a filter material; wherein the bottom of the well plate is configured to mate with the top of center plate and sandwich the filter, the bottom of the center plate configured to mate with the top of the base plate, so that when mated, the sample wells of the well plate are in fluidic communication with the center plate through the filter, the center plate being in fluidic communication with the one or more medium collection chambers thereby forming a plurality of bioreactors having a vertical fluid flow path from the well plate through the filter and center plate to the base plate; wherein the system is configured so that application of negative gage pressure to the medium collection chamber actively draws fluid from the sample well where it permeates the three-dimensional cell growth medium, through the filter, and finally into the medium collection chamber; and wherein the filter material has a porosity smaller than the size of the swollen hydrogel particles.
44. 44-63. (canceled)
64. A dual-flow bioreactor system, comprising: a first liquid reservoir; a sample well, wherein the sample well is filled with a three-dimensional (3D) cell growth medium, wherein the 3D cell culture medium comprises a plurality of hydrogel particles and a liquid cell culture medium, wherein the hydrogel particles are swelled with the liquid cell culture medium to form a granular gel; a first medium collection chamber; a second liquid reservoir; a second medium collection chamber; a first vacuum apparatus; a second vacuum apparatus; wherein the first vacuum apparatus is operably connected to the first medium collection chamber; wherein the second vacuum apparatus is operably connected to the second medium collection chamber; wherein the first liquid reservoir is in fluidic communication with the sample well through a first filter material, which is in fluid communication with the first medium collection chamber through the first filter material, thereby forming a first perfusion flow path, wherein the first filter material has a porosity smaller than the size of the swollen hydrogel particles; wherein the second liquid reservoir is in fluidic communication with the sample well through a second filter material, which is in fluidic communication with the second medium collection chamber through the second filter media, thereby forming a second perfusion flow path, wherein the second filter material has a porosity smaller than the size of the swollen hydrogel particles; wherein the system is configured so that the first flow path and second flow path are orthogonal to one another and at different heights in the sample well from the bottom of the system; wherein the system is further configured so that application of negative gage pressure to the first medium collection chamber, second medium collection chamber, or both, actively draws fluid from the first liquid reservoir, the second liquid reservoir, or both, where it permeates the three-dimensional cell growth medium, through the first filter, the second filter, or both, and finally into the first medium collection chamber, the second collection chamber, or both.
65. 65-106. (canceled)
107. A method of using a perfusion-enabled bioreactor, comprising: providing one or more bioreactor systems of claim 1; providing a biological sample; providing a 3D growth media; placing the 3D growth media in a culture chamber of the bioreactor; pipetting the biological sample into the 3D growth media; applying a positive or negative gage pressure to the bioreactor thereby drawing fluid into the 3D growth media through active perfusion.
108. 108-141. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
