<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
Coupang Corporation
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHI, Xin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650657
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TOP ITEMS FOR A CUSTOM FULFILLMENT CENTER
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide systems and methods for determining items for a custom fulfillment center. The system may include one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to analyze, with a machine-learning algorithm, historical order data and geographic data, to determine one or more top items for a geographic area. Additionally, the system may provide data to a first user device for display to send the one or more top items to a vehicle with a custom fulfillment center and receive an order from a database, the order comprising one or more ordered items. Additionally, the system may and determine whether the ordered items include at least one top item and based on the determination, provide data to a second user device for display to fulfill the order at the custom fulfillment center.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining items for a custom fulfillment center, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: analyze, with a machine-learning algorithm, historical order data and geographic data, to determine one or more top items for a geographic area; apply an adjustment factor based on search data, by the machine-learning algorithm, to the one or more top items for the geographic area; determine, with the machine-learning algorithm and linear programming, how to utilize a capacity of a vehicle with a custom fulfillment center; based on the determination by the machine-learning algorithm, provide data to a first user device for display to send the one or more top items adjusted by the adjustment factor to the vehicle with the custom fulfillment center; receive an order from a database, the order comprising one or more ordered items; determine whether the ordered items include at least one top item; based on the determination whether the ordered items include the at least one top item, provide data to a user via a second user device for display to fulfill the order at the custom fulfillment center and instruct the user via the second user device for display to deliver the order; and change order data associated with the order to signify that the order will be fulfilled by the custom fulfillment center.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle with a custom fulfillment center is a static trailer.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle with a custom fulfillment center is a moving truck.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the second user device is determined based on proximity to the custom fulfillment center.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first user device is one of a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the second user device is one of a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein historical order data is updated every twenty-four hours.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein geographic data is based at least on a postal code.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein historical order data is based at least on search data.
10. A system for determining items for a custom fulfillment center, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: analyze, with a machine-learning algorithm, historical order data and geographic data, to determine one or more top items for a geographic area; apply an adjustment factor based on search data, by the machine-learning algorithm, to the one or more top items for the geographic area determine, with the machine-learning algorithm and linear programming, how to utilize a capacity of a vehicle with a custom fulfillment center; based on the determination by the machine-learning algorithm, provide data to a first user device for display to send the one or more top items adjusted by the adjustment factor to the vehicle with the custom fulfillment center in a neighborhood zone, wherein the geographic area includes one or more neighborhood zones; receive an order from a database, the order comprising one or more ordered items; determine whether the ordered items include at least one top item; based on the determination whether the ordered items include the at least one top item, provide data to multiple users via multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone for display to fulfill the order at the custom fulfillment center; receive confirmation from a user of one of the multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone for fulfilling the order at the custom fulfillment center; instruct the user via one of the multiple user devices to deliver the order; and change order data associated with the order to signify that the order will be fulfilled by the custom fulfillment center.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the vehicle with a custom fulfillment center is a static trailer.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the vehicle with a custom fulfillment center is a moving truck.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone are determined based on proximity to the custom fulfillment center.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the first user device is one of a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the multiple user devices are one of a PDA, a smart phone, a tablet, a laptop, or other computer device.
16. The system of claim 10, further comprising: provide data to the remaining multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone that one of the multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone is fulfilling the order.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein historical order data is updated every twenty-four hours.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein geographic data is based at least on a postal code.
19. The system of claim 10, wherein historical order data is based at least on search data.
20. A computer-implemented method for determining items for a custom fulfillment center, the system comprising: analyzing, with a machine-learning algorithm, historical order data and geographic data, to determine one or more top items for a geographic area; applying an adjustment factor based on search data, by the machine-learning algorithm, to the one or more top items for the geographic area; determining, with the machine-learning algorithm and linear programming, how to utilize a capacity of a vehicle with a custom fulfillment center; based on the determination by the machine-learning algorithm, providing data to a first user device for display to send the one or more top items adjusted by the adjustment factor to the vehicle with the custom fulfillment center in a neighborhood zone, wherein the geographic area includes one or more neighborhood zones; receive an order from a database, the order comprising one or more ordered items; determining whether the ordered items include at least one top item; based on the determination whether the ordered items include the at least one top item, providing data to multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone for display to fulfill the order at the custom fulfillment center; receiving confirmation from a user of one of the multiple user devices in the neighborhood zone for fulfilling the order at the custom fulfillment center; instructing the user via one of the multiple user devices to deliver the order; and changing order data associated with the order to signify that the order will be fulfilled by the custom fulfillment center.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the adjustment factor includes at least one of a seasonality factor and a popularity factor determined by social media data.
22. The system of claim 10, wherein the adjustment factor includes at least one of a seasonality factor and a popularity factor determined by social media data.
</claims>
</document>
