<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAL, MANJOT SINGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70482891
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EFFICIENT TASK COMPLETION VIA INTELLIGENT AGGREGATION AND ANALYSIS OF DATA
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for assisting with task completion are provided. A plurality of items may be added to an electronic shopping list, wherein the plurality of items is arranged in a first order in the electronic shopping list. A store that each of the plurality of items is available for purchase at may be identified. An indication that a computing device associated with the electronic shopping list is within a threshold distance of an entrance of the store may be received. A location of each of the plurality of items in the store may be identified. The plurality of items may be arranged in a second order in the electronic shopping list based on the location of each of the plurality of items in the store relative to the entrance of the store.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assisting with task completion, the method comprising: adding a plurality of items to an electronic shopping list, wherein the plurality of items is arranged in a first order in the electronic shopping list; identifying a store that each of the plurality of items is available for purchase at; receiving an indication that a computing device associated with the electronic shopping list is within a threshold distance of an entrance of the store; identifying a location of each of the plurality of items in the store; and arranging the plurality of items in a second order in the electronic shopping list based on the location of each of the plurality of items in the store relative to the entrance of the store.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: surfacing the list on a display of the computing device in the second order; receiving a selection of one of the plurality of items; and surfacing, on the display, an indication of the location of the selected item in the store.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the indication comprises at least one of: an aisle in the store; a shelf in the store; a quadrant of the store; and a level of the store.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of items is added to the electronic shopping list based on extracting the plurality of items from the body of an electronic event invitation.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the location of each of the plurality of items in the store comprises: receiving, from an item database of the store, a location of each of the plurality of the plurality of items in the store, wherein the item database of the store comprises a list of items and corresponding locations of those items in the store.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the user traveled to the store in a car; receiving an indication from another computing device that the user has reached a minimum threshold amount of an additional item; determining that the additional item is available for purchase at the store; identifying the location of the additional item in the store; and adding the additional item to the list.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the additional item is added at a position in the second order based on the location of the additional item in the store relative to the location of each of the plurality of items in the store.
8. A system for assisting with task completion, comprising: a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify an event, wherein the event has a plurality of items associated with it; add the plurality of items to an electronic list; identify a user account associated with an invitee of the event; match the user account to one of the items based on at least one of: a computing device associated with the user account being within a threshold distance of a store that carries the item; a search history associated with the user account for items of the item type; and a history of assigning items of the item type to the user by one or more event organizers; and add the purchasing of the item to an electronic to-do list linked to the user account.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the event is identified from an electronic invite and the plurality of items are associated with the event based on being included in the electronic invite.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the purchasing of the item added to the electronic to-do list linked to the user account comprises a number of the item that is to be purchased based on a number of confirmed attendees to the event.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: receive a modification to electronic invite, wherein the modification is a reduction in the number of confirmed attendees to the event; and automatically update, in the to-do list, the number of the item that is to be purchased based on the received modification to the electronic invite.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the item is added to a shopping list of the electronic to-do list, and wherein the shopping list comprises a plurality of items.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a store that each of the plurality of items is available for purchase at; receive an indication that the computing device associated with the user account is within a threshold distance of an entrance of the store; identify a location of each of the plurality of items in the store; and arrange the plurality of items in an order in the shopping list based on the location of each of the plurality of items in the store relative to the entrance of the store.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a store that each of the plurality of items is available for purchase at; receive an indication that the computing device associated with the user account is within a threshold distance of the store; identify a location of each of the plurality of items in the store; and arrange the plurality of items in an order in the shopping list based on the location of each of the plurality of items in the store relative to an identified location of the computing device.
15. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assists with task completion, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for: adding a plurality of items to an electronic shopping list, wherein the plurality of items is arranged in a first order in the electronic shopping list; identifying a store that each of the plurality of items is available for purchase at; identifying a location of each of the plurality of items in the store; identifying a location of a computing device associated with the electronic shopping list in relation to the identified location of each of the plurality of items in the store; arranging the plurality of items in a second order in the electronic shopping list based on the identified location of the computing device in relation to the identified location of each of the plurality of items in the store.
16. The computer-readable storage device of claim 15 further comprising: surfacing the electronic shopping list on a display of the computing device in the second order; receiving a selection of one of the plurality of items; and surfacing, on the display, an indication of the location of the selected item in the store.
17. The computer-readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the indication comprises at least one of: an aisle in the store; a shelf in the store; a quadrant of the store; and a level of the store.
18. The computer-readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the plurality of items is added to the electronic shopping list based on extracting the plurality of items from the body of an electronic event invitation.
19. The computer-readable storage device of claim 15, wherein in identifying the location of each of the plurality of items in the store, the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for: receiving, from a database associated with the store, a location of each of the plurality of items in the store, wherein the database comprises a list of items and corresponding locations of those items in the store.
20. The computer-readable storage device of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for: determining that the user traveled to the store in a car; receiving an indication from another computing device that the user has reached a minimum threshold amount of an additional item; determining that the additional item is available for purchase at the store; identifying the location of the additional item in the store; and adding the additional item to the list.
</claims>
</document>
