<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G16H10/60,G16H15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PALO, MATTI
ORTHO BISTRO
LEGUM, BENJAMIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
PALO, MATTI
LEGUM, BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATIENT ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A patient assessment system having a computing system including a processor configured to provide a plurality of routines to a patient using an avatar on a display is provided. A sensor array is configured to capture patient data and transmit patient data to a memory in operable communication with the processor. The memory is configured to store a plurality of patient data received from the sensor array. An artificial intelligence engine is in communication with the memory to receive and analyze patient data for one or more abnormalities. A patient report generator is in communication with the artificial intelligence engine and to provide a patient reports to an interface configured to display reports to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A patient assessment system comprising: a computing system including a processor configured to provide a plurality of routines to a patient using an avatar via a display; a sensor array configured to capture patient data and transmit patient data to a memory in operable communication with the processor, the memory configured to store a plurality of patient data received from the sensor array; an artificial intelligence engine in operable communication with the memory, the artificial intelligence system configured to analyze patient data one or more abnormalities; and a patient report generator in operable communication with the artificial intelligence engine, the patient report generator configured to provide a plurality of reports to an interface configured to display the plurality of reports.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the sensor array includes at least one of the following: at least one infrared sensor; at least one photographic device; and at least one dynamometer. at least one impedance sensor
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the sensor array is configured to transmit at least; volumetric data; thermographic data; body composition data; strength data; and optical imaging data, wherein the volumetric data, the thermographic data, the body composition data, the strength data, and the optical image data is aggregated into at least one data set.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the artificial intelligence engine is comprised of: a comparator configured to compare at least one data set stored in the memory to determine a difference between two or more values in the at least one data set; a diagnosis tool to determine if the difference is above a threshold value, and wherein the threshold value is used to elucidate a diagnosis and transmit the diagnosis to at least one of the plurality of reports.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the plurality of reports is stored in the memory, and wherein a comparing module compares the plurality of reports for each patient over time.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the user selects at least one of the plurality of routines, wherein the sensor array transmits the patient data to the artificial intelligence engine, wherein the artificial intelligence engine changes the routine in view of the patient data.
7. A patient assessment system comprising: a sensor array configured to provide a plurality of patient data to a computing system, the computing system including at least one processor operably coupled to the sensor array, the at least one processor configured to perform the following: providing a plurality of routines to a patient; collecting a plurality of patient data provided by the sensor array; transmitting the plurality of patient data to an artificial intelligence engine; analyzing, via the artificial intelligence engine, the patient data to detect a potential abnormality; and generating a plurality of reports using the patient data, a memory operably coupled to the at least one processor and configured to store the plurality of patient data; and a server operably coupled to the memory and configured to receive a request for the plurality of patient data, and to serve the plurality of patient data in response to the request.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of routines are stored in the memory, wherein the server receives a request for at least one routine and serves the at least one routine in response to the request, wherein the at least one routine is provided to the patent via a display.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of routines is performed by an avatar on a display.
10. The system of claim 9, including the avatar receiving instructions from the at least one processor to provide the plurality of routines to the patient, wherein the patient and the avatar simultaneously perform the plurality of routines provided on the display.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the patient performs the at least one routine, the processor is configured to measure the plurality of patient data received from the sensor array, wherein the plurality of patient data is related to at least one target anatomy of the patient and stored for comparison in the memory.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the artificial intelligence engine is comprised of: a comparator configured to compare at least one data set stored in the memory to determine a difference between two or more values in the at least one data set; a diagnosis tool to determine if the difference is above a threshold value, and wherein the threshold value is used to elucidate a diagnosis and transmit the diagnosis to at least one of the plurality of reports.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the plurality of reports is stored in the memory, and wherein a comparing module compares the plurality of reports for each patient over time.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the target anatomy of the patient includes at least one of the following: wrists, hands, forearms, fingers, ankles, toes, and feet.
15. The system of claim 7, wherein the sensor array includes at least one of the following: at least one infrared sensor configured to collect and transmit range-of-motion data at least one infrared sensor configured to collect and transmit thermographic and calculate volumetric data; at least one impedance sensor, configured to collect biometric data; at least one photographic device, configured to collect optical imaging data; and at least one dynamometer, configured to collect strength data.
16. A patient assessment system comprising: a sensor array configured to provide a plurality of patient data to a computing system, the computing system including at least one processor operably coupled to the sensor array, the at least one processor configured to perform the following: providing, via an avatar, a plurality of routines to a patient, each of the plurality of routines adapted to aggregate data into a plurality of data sets; transmitting the aggregated data to a patient interface adapted to permit user interaction therewith; transmitting the plurality of patient data to an artificial intelligence engine; analyzing, via the artificial intelligence engine, the patient data to detect recovery progress or a potential abnormality; and generating a plurality of reports using the patient data, a memory operably coupled to the at least one processor and configured to store the plurality of patient data in a shareable document format; and a server operably coupled to the memory and configured to receive a request for the plurality of patient data and to serve the plurality of patient data in response to the request.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of sensors includes at least one of the following: at least one infrared sensor configured to collect and transmit range-of-motion data, thermographic data, and volumetric data; at least one impedance sensor to collect impedance data; at least one photographic device configured to provide imaging data; and at least one dynamometer, configured to provide strength data.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the artificial intelligence engine is comprised of: a comparator configured to compare at least one data set stored in the memory to determine a difference between two or more values in the at least one data set; a diagnosis tool to determine if the difference is above a threshold value, and wherein the threshold value is used to elucidate a diagnosis and transmit the diagnosis to at least one of the plurality of reports.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of reports is stored in the memory, and wherein a comparing module compares the plurality of reports for each patient over time.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of reports are compared, via the comparator, to a standardized data sets stored in the database.
</claims>
</document>
