<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G16H10/60,G16H15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOC.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE BROUWER, WALTER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971801
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING PERSONALIZED HEALTH DATA
</title>

<abstract>
A method for providing personalized blood tests is provided, the method comprising receiving health data associated with a user and an input associated with the user. Based on the received user input, parameters associated with the user may be predicted via a trained neural network model. The received health data and the predicted parameters may be stored, using block chain, in decentralized nodes. The received health data and the predicted parameters may be transmitted to a remote device to personalize the health data. The method may further comprise receiving personalized health data associated with the user and at least one predictive model based on the personalized health data. The personalized health data may comprise the received health data filtered by the predicted parameters, and the predictive model may be configured to predict future health-related information. The personalized health data and the future health-related information may be displayed on a graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of providing a personalized blood test, the method comprising: receiving, from a digital device, health data associated with a user, the health data comprising blood test results; receiving, from the digital device, an input associated with the user; predicting, via a trained neural network model, parameters associated with the user based on the received user input; storing, using block chain, the received health data and the predicted parameters in a plurality of decentralized nodes; transmitting the received health data and the predicted parameters to a remote device; receiving, from the remote device, personalized health data associated with the user, wherein the personalized health data comprises the received health data filtered by the predicted parameters; receiving, from the remote device, at least one predictive model based on the personalized health data, wherein the predictive model is configured to predict future health-related information; and displaying the personalized health data and the future health-related information on a graphical user interface of the digital device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the predicted parameters associated with the user comprise at least one of gender, age, ethnicity, weight, height, or body mass index.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises at least one of an image of the user, clinome, phenome, exposome, genome, proteome, microbiome, pharmacome, or physiome.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the personalized health data comprises personalized blood test results that are filtered by gender, age, and ethnicity associated with the user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the future health-related information comprises at least one of a number of future healthcare visits the user will have, risks for mortality causes, microbial diversity, healthiest location to live, a number of steps the user will take per day, future potential for weight gain, risk of allergies, or future sleep patterns.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising displaying, on the graphical user interface, optimal range associated with the personalized health data, wherein the optimal range is calculated, via a machine-learning algorithm, based on the predicted parameters associated with the user.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating the received health data associated with the user with shared health data received from other users; and updating the predictive model based on the aggregation.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a reward to the user in response to determining that the received health data and the predicted parameters are transmitted to the remote device; and displaying the reward on the graphical user interface.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising encrypting the received health data and the predicted parameters before storing the received health data and the predicted parameters in the plurality of decentralized nodes.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the digital device comprises at least one of a computer, a laptop, a smartphone, a tablet, or a smartwatch.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that are executable by at least one processor of a device to cause the device to perform operations, comprising: receiving, from a digital device, health data associated with a user, the health data comprising blood test results; receiving, from the digital device, an input associated with the user; predicting, via a trained neural network model, parameters associated with the user based on the received user input; storing, using block chain, the received health data and the predicted parameters in a plurality of decentralized nodes; transmitting the received health data and the predicted parameters to a remote device; receiving, from the remote device, personalized health data associated with the user, wherein the personalized health data comprises the received health data filtered by the predicted parameters; receiving, from the remote device, at least one predictive model based on the personalized health data, wherein the predictive model is configured to predict future health-related information; and displaying the personalized health data and the future health-related information on a graphical user interface of the digital device.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the predicted parameters associated with the user comprise at least one of gender, age, ethnicity, weight, height, or body mass index.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the user input comprises at least one of an image of the user, clinome, phenome, exposome, genome, proteome, microbiome, pharmacome, or physiome.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the personalized health data comprises personalized blood test results that are filtered by gender, age, and ethnicity associated with the user.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the future health-related information comprises at least one of a number of future healthcare visits the user will have, risks for mortality causes, microbial diversity, healthiest location to live, a number of steps the user will take per day, future potential for weight gain, risk of allergies, or future sleep patterns.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions further cause the device to display, on the graphical user interface, optimal range associated with the personalized health data, and wherein the optimal range is calculated, via a machine-learning algorithm, based on the predicted parameters associated with the user.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions further cause the device to: aggregate the received health data associated with the user with shared health data received from other users; and update the predictive model based on the aggregation.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions further cause the device to: generate a reward to the user in response to determining that the received health data and the predicted parameters are transmitted to the remote device; and display the reward on the graphical user interface.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the set of instructions further cause the device to encrypt the received health data and the predicted parameters before storing the received health data and the predicted parameters in the plurality of decentralized nodes.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the digital device comprises at least one of a computer, a laptop, a smartphone, a tablet, or a smartwatch.
</claims>
</document>
