<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAN MARTIN JORQUERA, FERNANDO
SHAMI, MOHAMMAD
TEO, KOON HENG IVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052263
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES TO PROCESS SEARCH QUERIES AND PERFORM CONTEXTUAL SEARCHES
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques to determine contextual search terms. For example, embodiments include receiving a search query including a search term, the search query to cause performance of a search within a website. Embodiments also include determining a rule comprising one or more criteria is met, the rule associated with the search term and to link the search term with a contextual search term when the one or more criteria are met, appending the contextual search term with the search term in the search query to perform the search within the website, and performing the search within the website utilizing the search query comprising the search term and the contextual search term. Finally, embodiments include returning a result to the website.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory to store instructions; and processing circuitry, coupled with the memory, operable to execute the instructions, that when executed, cause the processing circuitry to: receive, via one or more network links, a search query associated with a user account, the search query comprising a search term, and to cause performance of a search within a web site; submit a query to a dictionary database stored on a storage system, the query comprising the search term; determine, from the dictionary database stored on the storage system, one or more contextual search terms related to the search term based on the query comprising the search term; determine one or more rules associated with the user account, the one or more rules generated based on a trained machine-learning operation, each of the one or more rules comprising one or more criteria for the user account that when met link one of the one or more contextual search terms with the search term; determine one or more criteria of a rule of the one or more rules is met based on information in the user account, the rule including the one or more criteria to cause a link between the search term with a contextual search term associated with the rule; append the contextual search term with the search term in the search query to perform the search within the web site, wherein the contextual search term is appended to the search term when the one or more criteria of the rule are met; perform the search within the web site utilizing the search query comprising the search term and the contextual search term appended with the search term; determine a result of the search utilizing the search query comprising the search term and the contextual search term; and communicate the result, via the one or more network link and in response to the search, to the website.
2. (canceled)
3. (canceled)
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the user account is one of a plurality of user accounts and each user account of the plurality of user account is associated with corresponding rules.
5. The system of claim 1, the processing circuitry to: cause presentation of the contextual search term in an area of the website prior to appending the contextual search term; and receive an indication of a selection of the contextual search term based on a user interaction with the website.
6. The system of claim 1, the processing circuitry to perform a crawl operation on the website to detect contextual search terms for search terms.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the crawl operation includes applying natural language processing to each webpage of the website.
8. The system of claim 1, comprising: a network interface coupled with the one or more network links; and the storage system to store a plurality of user accounts, a plurality of rules including the rule, a plurality of search terms including the search term, and a plurality of contextual search terms including the contextual search term.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, via one or more network links, a search query associated with a user account, the search query comprising a search term, and to cause performance of a search within a web site; querying to a dictionary database stored on a storage system utilizing the search term; determining, from the dictionary database stored on the storage system, contextual search terms associated with the search term; determining a plurality of rules associated with the search term are met establishing links between the search term and the plurality contextual search terms, each of the plurality of rules comprising one or more criteria; causing presentation of each of the plurality of contextual search terms in an area of the web site; receiving an indication of a selection of a contextual search term of the plurality contextual search terms; appending the contextual search term with the search term in the search query to perform the search within the web site; performing the search utilizing the search query comprising the search term and the contextual search term; and sending a result, via the one or more network links and in response to the search utilizing the search query, to the website.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising: determining the plurality of rules associated with the user account to determine whether criteria are met.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, comprising performing the machine learning to determine the plurality of rules associated with the user account, each of the plurality of rules comprising one or more criteria that when met link a term with another term.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the user account is one of a plurality of user accounts, and each user account of the plurality of user account is associated with corresponding rules.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising performing a crawl operation on the website to detect contextual search terms for search terms.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the crawl operation includes applying natural language processing to each webpage of the website.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, comprising storing a plurality of user accounts, the plurality of rules, a plurality of search terms including the search term, and a plurality of contextual search terms including the contextual search term in a storage system.
16. A computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable program code executable by a processor to: determine a first term of a search query entered via a web site, the search query to cause performance of a search within a web site; determine a user account associated with the search query; perform machine learning to determine a plurality of rules associated with the user account; determine whether a rule of the plurality of rules comprising one or more criteria is met, the rule to associate the first term with a second term if the one or more criteria are met, and wherein the second term is related to the first term in a database stored in storage; append the second term with the first term for the search query to perform the search within the website in response to determining the one or more criteria of the rule is met; forgo appending the second term with the first term for the search query to perform the search; perform the search on the web site; and return a result, via the one or more network links, to the search query.
17. (canceled)
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, each of the plurality of rules comprising one or more criteria that when met link a term with the first term, and wherein the user account is one of a plurality of user accounts and each user account of the plurality of user account is associated with corresponding rules.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-readable program code executable to: cause presentation of the second term in an area of the web site prior to appending the second term; and receive an indication of a selection of the second term based on a user interaction with the web site.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising computer-readable program code executable to perform a crawl operation on the website to detect contextual search terms for search terms, wherein the crawl operation includes applying natural language processing to each webpage of the website.
</claims>
</document>
