<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/58,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHI, SHUMING
LI, Xintong
LIU, Lemao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67548155
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE TRANSLATION METHOD, DEVICE, AND COMPUTER-READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A machine translation method includes: receiving to-be-processed information expressed in a source language; encoding the to-be-processed information, and generating an expression vector sequence of the to-be-processed information; and predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model. The feature information includes at least one of a part of speech or a word category of the target foresight word. The method also includes: determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word; and decoding the context vector by using a decoder, to obtain target content that corresponds to the context vector and expressed in a target language.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine translation method, applied to a translation device, and comprising: receiving to-be-processed information expressed in a source language; encoding the to-be-processed information and generating an expression vector sequence of the to-be-processed information; predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model, the feature information including at least one of a part of speech or a word category of the target foresight word; determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word; and decoding the context vector by using a decoder, to obtain target content that corresponds to the context vector and expressed in a target language.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein before the predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model, the method further comprises: training the prediction model according to a data set, the data set comprising source language sentences, target language sentences corresponding to the source language sentences, and feature information of the target language sentences.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word comprises: obtaining the feature information of the target foresight word; performing estimation on the feature information of the target foresight word, to obtain an estimation result; and determining the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the estimation result.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word comprises: obtaining the feature information of the target foresight word; determining an expected value of the feature information of the target foresight word; and determining the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the expected value.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model comprises: predicting, by using the prediction model according to a hidden state of the decoder at a second moment, the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment, the second moment being an adjacent moment before the first moment.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model comprises: obtaining a first result by using a neural network model according to target content corresponding to a second moment, the second moment being an adjacent moment before the first moment, and the first result being a hidden state of a hidden unit of the neural network model at the first moment; and predicting, by using the prediction model according to the first result, the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the obtaining a first result by using a neural network model according to target content corresponding to a second moment comprises: obtaining the first result by using the neural network model according to the target content corresponding to the second moment and a word vector at the first moment, the word vector being a vector expressed according to a phrase order in the expression vector sequence.
8. A translation device, comprising: a memory, configured to store computer-executable program code; a network interface; and a processor, coupled to the memory and the network interface, and configured to: receive to-be-processed information expressed in a source language; encode the to-be-processed information and generate an expression vector sequence of the to-be-processed information; predict feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model, the feature information including at least one of a part of speech or a word category of the target foresight word; determine a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word; and decode the context vector by using a decoder, to obtain target content that corresponds to the context vector and expressed in a target language.
9. The device according to claim 8, wherein before predicting the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment by using the prediction model, the processor is further configured to: train the prediction model according to a data set, the data set comprising source language sentences, target language sentences corresponding to the source language sentences, and feature information of the target language sentences.
10. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain the feature information of the target foresight word; perform estimation on the feature information of the target foresight word, to obtain an estimation result; and determine the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the estimation result.
11. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain the feature information of the target foresight word; determine an expected value of the feature information of the target foresight word; and determine the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the expected value.
12. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: predict, by using the prediction model according to a hidden state of the decoder at a second moment, the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment, the second moment being an adjacent moment before the first moment.
13. The device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain a first result by using a neural network model according to target content corresponding to a second moment, the second moment being an adjacent moment before the first moment, and the first result being a hidden state of a hidden unit of the neural network model at the first moment; and predict, by using the prediction model according to the first result, the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment.
14. The device according to claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain the first result by using the neural network model according to the target content corresponding to the second moment and a word vector at the first moment, the word vector being a vector expressed according to a phrase order in the expression vector sequence.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing a computer software instruction used by a translation device, the computer software instruction, when being executed, causing the translation device to perform: receiving to-be-processed information expressed in a source language; encoding the to-be-processed information and generating an expression vector sequence of the to-be-processed information; predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model, the feature information including at least one of a part of speech or a word category of the target foresight word; determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word; and decoding the context vector by using a decoder, to obtain target content that corresponds to the context vector and expressed in a target language.
16. The storage medium according to claim 15, wherein before the predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model, the computer software instruction further causes the translation device to perform: training the prediction model according to a data set, the data set comprising source language sentences, target language sentences corresponding to the source language sentences, and feature information of the target language sentences.
17. The storage medium according to claim 15, wherein the determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word comprises: obtaining the feature information of the target foresight word; performing estimation on the feature information of the target foresight word, to obtain an estimation result; and determining the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the estimation result.
18. The storage medium according to claim 15, wherein the determining a context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the feature information of the target foresight word comprises: obtaining the feature information of the target foresight word; determining an expected value of the feature information of the target foresight word; and determining the context vector corresponding to the first moment in the expression vector sequence according to the expected value.
19. The storage medium according to claim 15, wherein the predicting feature information of a target foresight word at a first moment by using a prediction model comprises: obtaining a first result by using a neural network model according to target content corresponding to a second moment, the second moment being an adjacent moment before the first moment, and the first result being a hidden state of a hidden unit of the neural network model at the first moment; and predicting, by using the prediction model according to the first result, the feature information of the target foresight word at the first moment.
20. The storage medium according to claim 19, wherein the obtaining a first result by using a neural network model according to target content corresponding to a second moment comprises: obtaining the first result by using the neural network model according to the target content corresponding to the second moment and a word vector at the first moment, the word vector being a vector expressed according to a phrase order in the expression vector sequence.
</claims>
</document>
