<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREED, ANDREW R.
PHIPPS, CHRISTOPHER
CHRISTIANSON, KYLE G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178478
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for Automated Analysis of Ground Truth Using Confidence Model to Prioritize Correction Options
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer-usable medium are disclosed for automated analysis of ground truth using confidence model to prioritize correction options. In certain embodiments, the ground truth data is analyzed to identify review-candidates. A confidence level may be assigned to each of the identified review-candidates and the review-candidates are prioritized, at least in part, using the assigned confidence levels. The review-candidates are electronically presented in prioritized order to solicit verification or correction feedback for updating the ground truth data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automated analysis of ground truth using an information processing system having a processor and a memory, the method comprising: receiving, by the information processing system, ground truth data; analyzing, by the information processing system, the ground truth data to identify review-candidates; assigning, by the information processing system, a confidence level to each of the identified review-candidates; prioritizing, by the information processing system, the review-candidates based at least on the assigned confidence levels; and electronically presenting, by the information processing system, the review-candidates in prioritized order to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the information processing system, suggested fixes for the review-candidates; and grouping identified review candidates having the same suggested fixes; and electronically presenting the grouped review-candidates in prioritized order along with the suggested fixes to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data using the suggested fixes.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein prioritizing the review-candidates further comprises: prioritizing a review-candidate based on an impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data using one or more of the respective suggested fixes.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data is based, at least in part, on the number of ground truth data entries that would be changed using respective suggested fixes.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the information processing system, review-candidates based on similarities between different attribute names; and assigning, by the information processing system, a high confidence level to review-candidates having different attribute names within a predetermined edit distance.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the information processing system, review-candidates based on differences in data types in ground truth entries for a given attribute; and assigning, by the information processing system, a high confidence level to review-candidates having different data types for the given attribute.
7. A system comprising: a processor; a data bus coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the processor and configured for: receiving ground truth data; analyzing the ground truth data to identify review-candidates; assigning a confidence level to each of the identified review-candidates; prioritizing the review-candidates based at least on the assigned confidence levels; and electronically presenting the review-candidates in prioritized order to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are further configured for: generating suggested fixes for the review-candidates; grouping identified review candidates having the same suggested fixes; and electronically presenting the grouped review-candidates in prioritized order along with the suggested fixes to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data using the suggested fixes.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein prioritizing the review-candidates further comprises: prioritizing a review-candidate based on an impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data using one or more of the respective suggested fixes.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data is based, at least in part, on the number of ground truth data entries that would be changed using respective suggested fixes.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are further configured for: identifying review-candidates based on similarities between different attribute names; and assigning a high confidence level to review-candidates having different attribute names within a predetermined edit distance.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions are further configured for: identifying review-candidates based on differences in data types in ground truth entries for a given attribute; and assigning a high confidence level to review-candidates having different data types for the given attribute.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: receiving ground truth data; analyzing the ground truth data to identify review-candidates; assigning a confidence level to each of the identified review-candidates; prioritizing the review-candidates based at least on the assigned confidence levels; and electronically presenting the review-candidates in prioritized order to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured for: generating suggested fixes for the review-candidates; grouping identified review candidates having the same suggested fixes; and electronically presenting the grouped review-candidates in prioritized order along with the suggested fixes to solicit corrective feedback for updating the ground truth data using the suggested fixes.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein prioritizing the review-candidates further comprises: prioritizing a review-candidate based on an impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data using one or more of the respective suggested fixes.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the impact of changing the review-candidate in the ground truth data is based, at least in part, on the number of ground truth data entries that would be changed using respective suggested fixes.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured for: identifying review-candidates based on similarities between different attribute names; and assigning a high confidence level to review-candidates having different attribute names within a predetermined edit distance.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions are further configured for: identifying review-candidates based on differences in data types in ground truth entries for a given attribute; and assigning a high confidence level to review-candidates having different data types for the given attribute.
</claims>
</document>
