<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G16H10/60,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SATI, MARWAN
STOVAL, III, WILLIAM M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING CLINICAL SUMMARIES USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system generates a clinical summary for a patient based on machine learning. One or more templates are generated, each indicating medical information for a corresponding clinical summary with respect to a medical condition of a patient. Preferences for medical information for each corresponding clinical summary are learned based on a history of desired medical information for clinical summaries for the medical condition. The learned preferences are applied to the one or more templates. A clinical summary is generated with respect to the medical condition of the patient based on the one or more templates with the learned preferences. Embodiments of the present invention further include a method and program product for generating a clinical summary for a patient based on machine learning in substantially the same manner described above.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating a clinical summary for a patient based on machine learning comprising: generating, via a processor, one or more templates each indicating medical information for a corresponding clinical summary with respect to a medical condition of a patient; learning, via the processor, preferences for medical information for each corresponding clinical summary based on a history of desired medical information for clinical summaries for the medical condition; applying, via the processor, the learned preferences to the one or more templates; and generating, via the processor, a clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient based on the one or more templates with the learned preferences.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more templates comprises: generating a personalized template based on user indications of relevant medical information for the personalized template.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the one or more templates comprises: generating a template based on crowdsourced indications for the medical information.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more templates are associated with a medical specialty and a corresponding medical scenario.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, via the processor, machine learning to analyze a medical scenario and determine a corresponding template for producing the clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the machine learning analyzes the medical scenario based on user feedback for the medical information and a set of parameters, wherein the set of parameters pertain to one or more from a group of: a reason for a medical examination, a complaint for the patient, a modality, a medical procedure, anatomy, automatic image findings based on image processing, information within a DICOM medical image header, information within a HL7 message, and anatomical measurements.
7. A computer system for generating a clinical summary for a patient based on machine learning, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, the program instructions comprising instructions to: generate one or more templates each indicating medical information for a corresponding clinical summary with respect to a medical condition of a patient; learn preferences for medical information for each corresponding clinical summary based on a history of desired medical information for clinical summaries for the medical condition; apply the learned preferences to the one or more templates; and generate a clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient based on the one or more templates with the learned preferences.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the instructions to generate the one or more templates comprise instructions to: generate a personalized template based on user indications of relevant medical information for the personalized template.
9. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the instructions to generate the one or more templates comprise instructions to: generate a template based on crowdsourced indications for the medical information.
10. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the one or more templates are associated with a medical specialty and a corresponding medical scenario.
11. The computer system of claim 7, further comprising instructions to: apply machine learning to analyze a medical scenario and determine a corresponding template for producing the clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the machine learning analyzes the medical scenario based on user feedback for the medical information and a set of parameters, wherein the set of parameters pertain to one or more from a group of: a reason for a medical examination, a complaint for the patient, a modality, a medical procedure, anatomy, automatic image findings based on image processing, information within a DICOM medical image header, information within a HL7 message, and anatomical measurements.
13. A computer program product for generating a clinical summary for a patient based on machine learning, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to: generate one or more templates each indicating medical information for a corresponding clinical summary with respect to a medical condition of a patient; learn preferences for medical information for each corresponding clinical summary based on a history of desired medical information for clinical summaries for the medical condition; apply the learned preferences to the one or more templates; and generate a clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient based on the one or more templates with the learned preferences.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the instructions to generate the one or more templates comprise instructions to: generate a personalized template based on user indications of relevant medical information for the personalized template.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the instructions to generate the one or more templates comprise instructions to: generate a template based on crowdsourced indications for the medical information.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the one or more templates are associated with a medical specialty and a corresponding medical scenario.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, further comprising instructions to: apply machine learning to analyze a medical scenario and determine a corresponding template for producing the clinical summary with respect to the medical condition of the patient.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the machine learning analyzes the medical scenario based on user feedback for the medical information and a set of parameters, wherein the set of parameters pertain to one or more from a group of: a reason for a medical examination, a complaint for the patient, a modality, a medical procedure, anatomy, automatic image findings based on image processing, information within a DICOM medical image header, information within a HL7 message, and anatomical measurements.
</claims>
</document>
