<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F9/50,G06K9/62,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, KEERTHI B.
KUMAR P, PRAMOD
PATIL, SHUBHAM SHASHIKANT
AGRAWAL, NITIN MADHUSUDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178348
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RELIABILITY DETERMINATION OF WORKLOAD MIGRATION ACTIVITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for determining reliability of a workload migration activity are disclosed. In one embodiment, sub-tasks associated with the workload migration activity may be determined. Further, statistical data associated with an execution of the sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of the workload migration activity may be retrieved. Furthermore, a reliability model may be trained through machine learning using the statistical data to determine reliability of the workload migration activity. Then, the reliability of a new workload migration activity may be determined using the trained reliability model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining a plurality of sub-tasks associated with a workload migration activity; retrieving statistical data associated with an execution of the plurality of the sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of the workload migration activity within a period; training a reliability model through machine learning using the statistical data corresponding to a portion of the period to determine reliability of the workload migration activity; and determining reliability of a new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: testing the trained reliability model against the statistical data corresponding to a remaining portion of the period.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein testing the trained reliability model comprises: predicting the reliability of an instance of the workload migration activity corresponding to the remaining portion of the period using the trained reliability model; and determining accuracy of the trained reliability model by comparing the predicted reliability with the retrieved statistical data for the remaining portion of the period, wherein the trained reliability model is selected to determine the reliability of the new workload migration activity when the determined accuracy of the trained reliability model is greater than or equal to a predefined threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: retraining the trained reliability model with the statistical data associated with a modified period when the accuracy is less than the predefined threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity comprises: determining a reliability score as 0 or 1, wherein the reliability score of 0 indicates an unreliable workload migration activity and the reliability score of 1 indicates a reliable workload migration activity.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a root cause for an unreliable workload migration activity by sub-classifying the sub-tasks associated with the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model when the new workload migration activity is determined as unreliable; and determining corrective measures for the root cause for the unreliable workload migration activity.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistical data comprises an execution time of each sub-task corresponding to the different instances of the workload migration activity, and wherein the statistical data comprises reliable data and unreliable data associated with each sub-task corresponding to the period.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining reliability of the new workload migration activity comprises: receiving data input from an analytics agent in a host when the new workload migration activity is triggered; and determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
9. A method comprising: determining a plurality of sub-tasks associated with a workload migration activity; retrieving statistical data associated with an execution of the plurality of the sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of the workload migration activity; performing a cluster analysis of the statistical data to generate a pair of clusters, with one cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are reliable and other cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are unreliable; and determining reliability of a new workload migration activity based on the generated pair of clusters.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: training a reliability model through machine learning based on the generated pair of clusters to determine the reliability of the workload migration activity; and determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining a root cause for an unreliable workload migration activity by sub-classifying the sub-tasks associated with the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model when the new workload migration activity is determined as unreliable; and determining corrective measures for the root cause for the unreliable workload migration activity.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the statistical data comprises an execution time of each sub-task corresponding to the different instances of the workload migration activity.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein determining reliability of the new workload migration activity comprises: receiving data input from an analytics agent in a host when the new workload migration activity is triggered; and determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the generated pair of clusters.
14. A management system supported by hardware in a virtual computing environment comprising: a retrieving unit to retrieve statistical data associated with an execution of a plurality of sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of a workload migration activity within a period, wherein the plurality of sub-tasks is associated with the workload migration activity; a training unit to train a reliability model through machine learning using the statistical data corresponding to a portion of the period to determine reliability of the workload migration activity; and a reliability determination unit to determine reliability of a new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
15. The management system of claim 14, further comprising a testing unit to test the trained reliability model against the statistical data corresponding to a remaining portion of the period.
16. The management system of claim 15, wherein the testing unit is to: predict the reliability of an instance of the workload migration activity corresponding to the remaining portion of the period using the trained reliability model; and determine accuracy of the trained reliability model by comparing the predicted reliability with the retrieved statistical data for the remaining portion of the period, wherein the trained reliability model is selected to determine the reliability of the new workload migration activity when the determined accuracy of the trained reliability model is greater than or equal to a predefined threshold.
17. The management system of claim 16, wherein the training unit is to: retrain the trained reliability model with the statistical data associated with a modified period when the accuracy is less than the predefined threshold.
18. A management system supported by hardware in a virtual computing environment comprising: a retrieving unit to retrieve statistical data associated with an execution of a plurality of sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of a workload migration activity, wherein the plurality of sub-tasks is associated with the workload migration activity; a classification unit to perform a cluster analysis of the statistical data to generate a pair of clusters, with one cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are reliable and other cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are unreliable; and a reliability determination unit to determine reliability of a new workload migration activity based on the generated pair of clusters.
19. The management system of claim 18, further comprising: a training unit to train a reliability model through machine learning based on the generated pair of clusters to determine the reliability of the workload migration activity.
20. The management system of claim 19, wherein the reliability determination unit is to determine the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
21. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: determine a plurality of sub-tasks associated with a workload migration activity; retrieve statistical data associated with an execution of the plurality of the sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of the workload migration activity within a period; train a reliability model through machine learning using the statistical data corresponding to a portion of the period to determine reliability of the workload migration activity; and determine reliability of a new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions to: test the trained reliability model against the statistical data corresponding to a remaining portion of the period.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein testing the trained reliability model comprises: predicting the reliability of an instance of the workload migration activity corresponding to the remaining portion of the period using the trained reliability model; and determining accuracy of the trained reliability model by comparing the predicted reliability with the retrieved statistical data for the remaining portion of the period, wherein the trained reliability model is selected to determine the reliability of the new workload migration activity when the determined accuracy of the trained reliability model is greater than or equal to a predefined threshold.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 23, further comprising instructions to: retrain the trained reliability model with the statistical data associated with a modified period when the accuracy is less than the predefined threshold.
25. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 21, wherein determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity comprises: determining a reliability score as 0 or 1, wherein the reliability score of 0 indicates an unreliable workload migration activity and the reliability score of 1 indicates a reliable workload migration activity.
26. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: determine a plurality of sub-tasks associated with a workload migration activity; retrieve statistical data associated with an execution of the plurality of the sub-tasks corresponding to different instances of the workload migration activity; perform a cluster analysis of the statistical data to generate a pair of clusters, with one cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are reliable and other cluster including the plurality of sub-tasks that are unreliable; and determine reliability of a new workload migration activity based on the generated pair of clusters.
27. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, further comprising instructions to: train a reliability model through machine learning based on the generated pair of clusters to determine the reliability of the workload migration activity; and determine the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model.
28. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, further comprising instructions to: determine a root cause for an unreliable workload migration activity by sub-classifying the sub-tasks associated with the new workload migration activity using the trained reliability model when the new workload migration activity is determined as unreliable; and determine corrective measures for the root cause for the unreliable workload migration activity.
29. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, wherein the statistical data comprises an execution time of each sub-task corresponding to the different instances of the workload migration activity.
30. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 26, wherein determining reliability of the new workload migration activity comprises: receiving data input from an analytics agent in a host when the new workload migration activity is triggered; and determining the reliability of the new workload migration activity using the generated pair of clusters.
</claims>
</document>
