<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N19/103,H04N19/154
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISPLAYLINK (UK)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARKS, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62067983
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data Transmission to Mobile Devices
</title>

<abstract>
Sensor information is received (S41) at a host device from a mobile device. A pose of the mobile device is then determined by the host device based on the received sensor information. The pose of the mobile device is compared with pose information (S42) of previous poses of the mobile device, each previous pose of the mobile device being associated with a performance level of the system for data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that previous pose. The host device then determines (S43) whether a performance level of the system for the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above or below a threshold of acceptability based on the comparison, and, if it is determined that the performance level is likely to be above the threshold of acceptability, setting (S44A) a low level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is high, but, if it is determined that the performance level is likely to be below the threshold of acceptability, setting (S44B) a high level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is low, but is more likely to be received and output properly by the mobile device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of transmitting data in a system comprising a host device and a mobile device, the method comprising, at the host device: receiving sensor information from the mobile device; determining a pose of the mobile device based on the received sensor information; comparing the determined pose of the mobile device with pose information of previous poses of the mobile device stored in a memory accessible by the host device, each previous pose of the mobile device being associated with a performance level of the system for data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that previous pose; determining whether a performance level of the system for the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above or below a threshold of acceptability based on the comparison with the performance levels associated with the previous poses; and if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above the threshold of acceptability, setting a low level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is high; or if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be below the threshold of acceptability, setting a high level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is low, but is more likely to be received and output properly by the mobile device; compressing the data to be transmitted to the mobile device by the set level of compression; transmitting the compressed data to the mobile device; determining a performance level of the system for the transmitted compressed data; and storing the determined pose of the mobile device and the determined performance level of the system for the transmitted compressed data.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pose information stored for a pose includes at least: position of the mobile device; and orientation of the mobile device.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pose information stored for a pose includes at least: location of the mobile device; movement of the mobile device; direction of movement of the mobile device; and angle of the mobile device compared to a reference.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the pose information stored for the pose further includes one or more of: velocity of the mobile device; acceleration of the mobile device; time of the pose; a compression level used for compressing the data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that pose; a type of compression used for compressing the data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that pose; or system resources that were used by the system at the time the data was transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that pose.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the performance levels associated with previous poses include performance parameters that are used in setting the level of compression to be applied to the data.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pose information is only stored for previous poses that have an acceptable performance level.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pose information is only stored for previous poses that have an unacceptable performance level.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein comparing the determined pose of the mobile device with pose information of previous poses of the mobile device comprises comparing the determined pose with the pose information of previous poses of the mobile device to find a previous pose that matches the determined pose, wherein matching is either matching completely, or to within a predetermined threshold of accuracy.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein if the pose information includes times of the previous poses, the comparing comprises comparing to find a most recent previous pose that matches the determined pose.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein if the pose information includes compression levels used for compressing the data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device for previous poses, and if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above the threshold of acceptability, the low level of compression is set to be lower than the compression level used for the previous pose that matches the determined pose.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein if the pose information includes compression levels used for compressing the data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device for previous poses, and if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be below the threshold of acceptability, the high level of compression is set to be higher than the compression level used for the previous pose that matches the determined pose.
12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining a likely future pose of the mobile device based on pose information of previous poses of the mobile device to determine a progression of the poses of the mobile device.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein determining whether a performance level of the system for the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above or below a threshold of acceptability is further based on the determined likely future pose of the mobile device.
14. The method according to claim 1, further comprising analysing the pose information to determine correlations between the pose information and the performance level on which analysis is used in the determining whether a performance level of the system for the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above or below a threshold of acceptability.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the memory in which the pose information of previous poses of the mobile device is stored is a First In First Out (FIFO) memory, storing the pose information of a limited number of previous poses.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data comprises image data to be output to a display of the mobile device.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data comprises audio data to be output to a speaker of the mobile device.
18. A host device configured to: receive sensor information from the mobile device; determine a pose of the mobile device based on the received sensor information; compare the determined pose of the mobile device with pose information of previous poses of the mobile device stored in a memory accessible by the host device, each previous pose of the mobile device being associated with a performance level of the system for data transmitted from the host device and received and output at the mobile device having that previous pose; determine whether a performance level of the system for the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above or below a threshold of acceptability based on the comparison with the performance levels associated with the previous poses; and if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be above the threshold of acceptability, set a low level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is high; or if it is determined that the performance level to the mobile device having the determined pose is likely to be below the threshold of acceptability, set a high level of compression to be applied to the data so that quality of the data transmitted to the mobile device is low, but is more likely to be received and output properly by the mobile device; compress the data to be transmitted to the mobile device by the set level of compression; transmit the compressed data to the mobile device; determine a performance level of the system for the transmitted compressed data; and store the determined pose of the mobile device and the determined performance level of the system for the transmitted compressed data.
19. A system comprising the host device of claim 18 and a mobile device.
20. The system according to claim 19, wherein the mobile device is a virtual reality device or an augmented reality device.
</claims>
</document>
