<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAGI, AKIRA
NARUO, AKIHISA
YAMANE, KEISUKE
AWAKURA, TAKATSUNA
KUMON, TAKAYUKI
SAKADA, KAZUYA
HOSHIKAWA, AKIO
MIZUKAMI, HIROTOSHI
MAKABE, SHINJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70326337
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent Virtual Agent For Managing Customer Communication And Workflows
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed intelligent virtual agent provides a single, unified platform for completing a variety of diverse complex business transactions including a series of interactions between multiple people and the performance of multiple tasks occurring at different points in time.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of using a virtual agent to perform a first workflow comprising multiple tasks, the method comprising: sending messages to and receiving messages from: a first user, the first user having a first state, and a second user, the second user having a second state, the messages sent and received via one or more of a frontend component and a chat engine, and the chat engine having a chat server and a bot server, wherein at least one of the received messages includes a request associated with the first workflow; using the bot server to: receive at least one chat command included in at least one of the received messages, request external services based on the at least one chat command, or obtain user information related to one of the first user and the second user; using a workflow server to: start and manage a first instance of the first workflow, the starting and managing the first instance of the first workflow including managing the multiple tasks, wherein the multiple tasks include a first task and a second task; storing information in a data lake, the information including the state of the first user and/or the state of the second user after completing the first task; and using the information stored in the data lake during the second task of the first workflow.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user is a first employee of a business entity and the second user is a second employee of the business entity.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising sending messages to and receiving messages from a third user, wherein the third user is a supervisor of the first user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second task of the first workflow includes obtaining the third user's approval.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: a second workflow that is different from the first workflow, the second workflow having a second instance; and using the workflow server to: start and manage the second instance of the second workflow.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first workflow is related to a loan application and the second workflow is related to a credit review.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: a third workflow that is different from the first workflow, the third workflow having a third instance; and using the workflow server to: start and manage the third instance of the third workflow.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising using the bot server to: receive at least one chat command included in at least one of the received messages, and request external services based on the at least one received chat command.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to: send messages to and receive messages from: a first user, the first user having a first state, and a second user, the second user having a second state, the messages sent and received via one or more of a frontend component and a chat engine, and the chat engine having a chat server and a bot server, wherein at least one of the received messages includes a request associated with a first workflow; use the bot server to: receive at least one chat command included in at least one of the received messages, request external services based on the at least one chat command, or obtain user information related to one of the first user and the second user; use a workflow server to: start and manage a first instance of the first workflow, the starting and managing the first instance of the first workflow including managing the multiple tasks, wherein the multiple tasks include a first task and a second task; store information in a data lake, the information including the state of the first user and/or the state of the second user after completing the first task; and use the information stored in the data lake during the second task of the first workflow.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 9, wherein the first user is a first employee of a business entity and the second user is a second employee of the business entity.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to send messages to and receive messages from a third user, wherein the third user is a supervisor of the first user.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 11, wherein the second task of the first workflow includes obtaining the third user's approval.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to use the workflow server to: start and manage a second instance of a second workflow, the second workflow being different from the first workflow.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 9, wherein the first workflow is related to a loan application and the second workflow is related to a credit review.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to use the workflow server to: start and manage a third instance of a third workflow, the third workflow being different from the first workflow and the second workflow.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 9, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to use the bot server to: receive at least one chat command included in at least one of the received messages, and request external services based on the at least one chat command.
17. A system for using a virtual agent to perform a first workflow comprising multiple tasks, comprising: one or more computers and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to: send messages to and receive messages from: a first user, the first user having a first state, and a second user, the second user having a second state, the messages sent and received via one or more of a frontend component and a chat engine, and the chat engine having a chat server and a bot server, wherein at least one of the received messages includes a request associated with a first workflow; use the bot server to: receive at least one chat command included in at least one of the received messages, request external services based on the at least one chat command, or obtain user information related to one of the first user and the second user; use a workflow server to: start and manage a first instance of the first workflow, the starting and managing the first instance of the first workflow including managing the multiple tasks, wherein the multiple tasks include a first task and a second task; store information in a data lake, the information including the state of the first user and/or the state of the second user after completing the first task; and use the information stored in the data lake during the second task of the first workflow.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the first user is a first employee of a business entity and the second user is a second employee of the business entity.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computers to send messages to and receive messages from a third user, wherein the third user is a supervisor of the first user.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the second task of the first workflow includes obtaining the third user's approval.
</claims>
</document>
