<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOO, CHUNGKUK
HWANG, INSEOK
ROZNER, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883240
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OVERLAPPING CNN CACHE REUSE IN HIGH RESOLUTION AND STREAMING-BASED DEEP LEARNING INFERENCE ENGINES
</title>

<abstract>
A method optimizes Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) inference time for full resolution images. One or more processors divide a full resolution image into a plurality of partially overlapping sub-images. The processor(s) select, from the plurality of partially overlapping sub-images, a first sub-image and a second sub-image that overlap one another in an overlapping area. The processor(s) feed the first sub-image, including the overlapping area, into a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) in order to create a first inference result for the first sub-image, where the CNN has been trained at a fine resolution. The processor(s) cache an inference result from the CNN for the overlapping area, and then utilize the cached inference result when inferring the second sub-image in the CNN. The processor(s) then identify a specific object in the full resolution image based on inferring the first sub-image and the second sub-image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to optimize Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) inference time for full resolution images, the method comprising: dividing, by one or more processors, a full resolution image into a plurality of partially overlapping sub-images; selecting, by one or more processors and from the plurality of partially overlapping sub-images, a first sub-image and a second sub-image that overlap one another in an overlapping area; feeding, by one or more processors, the first sub-image, including the overlapping area, into a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) in order to create a first inference result for the first sub-image, wherein the CNN has been trained at a fine resolution; caching, by one or more processors, an inference result from the CNN for the overlapping area; utilizing, by one or more processors, the cached inference result when inferring the second sub-image in the CNN; and identifying, by one or more processors, a specific object in the full resolution image based on inferring the first sub-image and the second sub-image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: labeling, by one or more processors, the specific object within the second sub-image on a display of the full resolution image based on a CNN computation of the second sub-image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the full resolution image is a stream of data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the full resolution image is a photograph of a physical scene.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the full resolution image is a graph of a stream of sound.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the full resolution image is a graph of electronic signal transmissions.
7. A method to optimize Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) inference time for full resolution images, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, a data D for processing by a system that utilizes a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to process data; separating, by one or more processors, the data D into sequentially processed partially overlapping data portions DP, wherein a first data portion DPi-1 and a second data portion DPi-2 have a common data portion CDPi-1; processing, by one or more processors, the common data portion CDPi-1 from the first data portion to form a first data portion result DPRi-1 for the first data portion DPi-1 and a common data portion result CDPRi-1 for use by the second data portion DPi-2; reusing, by one or more processors, the common data portion result CDPRi-1 in order to contribute to a second data portion result DPRi-2 for the second data portion DPi-2; and identifying, by one or more processors, a specific object in the data D based on the first data portion result DPRi-1 and the second data portion result DPRi-2.
8. The method of claim 7, where data D is a full resolution image, and wherein the method further comprises: labeling, by one or more processors, the specific object on a display of the full resolution image based inferring the data portion result DPRi-2 onto the CNN in order to identify the specific object within the second data portion DPi-2.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the common data portion CDPi-1 is the first data portion DPi-1.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the overlapping data portions DP are increasing sizes, and wherein the DPi-1 is contained in the DP.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, the overlapping data portions DP based on readings from a motion detection device in a camera that captured the second data portion DPi-2, wherein the motion detection device is from a group consisting of an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a global positioning sensor (GPS) positioning device, and a motion tracker.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the data D describes a low resolution image, wherein each data portion DPi is processed by the CNN, and wherein the CNN is trained on a high resolution image.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the overlapping data portions DP are determined by a sliding window.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein the data D is a photograph of a physical scene.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the data D is a graph of a stream of sound.
16. The method of claim 7, wherein the data D is a graph of electronic signal transmissions.
17. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, and wherein the program code is readable and executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: receiving a data D for processing by a system that utilizes a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to process data; separating the data D into sequentially processed overlapping data portions DP, wherein a first data portion DPi-1 and a second data portion DPi-2 have a common data portion CDPi-1; processing the common data portion CDPi-1 from the first data portion to form a common data portion result CDPRi-1 for the second data portion DPi-2; reusing the common data portion result CDPRi-1 in order to contribute to a data portion result DPRi-2 for the second data portion DPi-2; and inferring the data portion result DPRi-2 onto the CNN in order to identify a specific object within the second data portion DPi-2.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, where data D is a full resolution image, and wherein the method further comprises: labeling the specific object on a display of the full resolution image based inferring the data portion result DPRi-2 onto the CNN in order to identify the specific object within the second data portion DPi-2.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the overlapping data portions DP are determined by a sliding window.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
