<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/56,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRIDGE MOBILE TELEMATICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALAKRISHNAN, HARI
MADDEN, SAMUEL ROSS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641352
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CLASSIFYING DRIVER BEHAVIOR
</title>

<abstract>
Data processing techniques and systems for processing telematics data associated with a vehicle, such as an automobile, to classify how the vehicle is being operated by a driver. The telematics data can include the use of image data captured by a camera of the vehicle. The image data is processed in conjunction with vehicular telematics data such as position, speed, and acceleration data of the vehicle obtained from, for example, smartphone sensors. The image data is processed and used by a processing system to provide a context for the telematics data. The image data and the telematics data are classified by the processing system to identify driving behavior of the driver, determine driving maneuvers that have occurred, scoring driving quality of the driver, or a combination of them.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing system comprising: a camera configured to capture image data; one or more sensors configured to capture telematics data; a feature classification engine configured to generate classification metrics for a feature vector by performing operations comprising: generating, based at least partly on the image data and telematics data, the feature vector, with the feature vector comprising features representing events of interest of the image data and the telematics data; and determining, using machine learning logic, a classification metric for each feature of the feature vector; and a prediction engine configured to generate a prediction value indicative of a predicted likelihood of one of the events of interest occurring by performing operations comprising: assigning to each feature, based at least partly on the classification metric of the respective feature, a prediction weight; and determining the prediction value based at least partly on prediction weights for remaining features of the feature vector.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the event of interest comprises a relative speeding event, a following distance event, a traffic density event, a rolling event, a missed stop event, a turning behavior event, a hard stop event, an impaired visibility event, or a crosswalk behavior event.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine is configured to generate a risk score that is associated with a driver based at least partly on the prediction value.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the features comprise one or more of a street light, a vehicle, a street sign, or a road marking.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the telematics data comprises one or more of acceleration data, position data, and wireless signal strength data.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the image data comprises one or more of an image and a series of images.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine and the feature classification engine are part of a mobile device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction engine and the feature classification engine are part of a vehicle device.
9. A method comprising: generating, depending on received image data and telematics data captured during operation of a vehicle, features associated with events of the image data and the telematics data; determining a classification metric for each of the features; and assigning to each feature, depending on the classification metric of the feature, a prediction weight; determining a prediction value depending on prediction weights for the features; and generating a predicted likelihood of one of the events occurring depending on the prediction weights.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein one or more of the image data and the telematics data are processed by a mobile device to generate pre-processed data, and wherein the pre-processed data are sent to a remote computing environment for further processing.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the events comprises one or more of a relative speeding event, a following distance event, a traffic density event, a rolling event, a missed stop event, a turning behavior event, a hard stop event, an impaired visibility event, or a crosswalk behavior event.
12. The method of claim 9, comprising generating a risk score that is associated with a driver based at least partly on the prediction value.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the features comprise one or more of a street light, a vehicle, a street sign, or a road marking.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the telematics data comprises one or more of acceleration data, position data, and wireless signal strength data.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the image data comprises one or more of an image or a series of images.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions executable by one or more processors to cause the processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a camera, image data; receiving, from one or more sensors, telematics data; generating, by a feature classification engine, classification metrics for a feature vector by performing operations comprising: generating, based at least partly on the image data and telematics data, the feature vector, with the feature vector comprising features representing events of interest of the image data and the telematics data; determining, using machine learning logic, a classification metric for each feature of the feature vector; and generating, by a prediction engine, a prediction value indicative of a predicted likelihood one of the events of interest occurring by performing operations comprising: assigning to each feature, based at least partly on the classification metric of the respective feature, a prediction weight; and determining the prediction value based at least partly on prediction weights for remaining features of the feature vector.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein one or more of the image data and the telematics data are processed by a mobile device to generate pre-processed data, and wherein the pre-processed data are sent to a remote computing environment for further processing.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the event of interest comprises a relative speeding event, a following distance event, a traffic density event, a rolling event, a missed stop event, a turning behavior event, a hard stop event, an impaired visibility event, or a crosswalk behavior event.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, the operations comprising generating a risk score that is associated with a driver based at least partly on the prediction value.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the features comprise one or more of a street light, a vehicle, a street sign, or a road marking.
</claims>
</document>
