<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F7/58,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Freeman, Ion Chalmers
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039283
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENCRYPTED DEVICE IDENTIFICATION STREAM GENERATOR FOR SECURE INTERACTION AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for authenticating an encrypted device identity is provided. The system comprises a memory device with computer-readable program code stored thereon; a communication device connected to a network; and a processing device, wherein the processing device is configured to execute the computer-readable program code to: receive an encrypted device identification of a user device, the encrypted device identification comprising a stream of generated data; identify a unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification, wherein the unique stream pattern is a distinguishable characteristic in the stream generated data; store the unique stream pattern; receive an interaction request comprising a provided device identification; analyze the provided device identification to determine if the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern; and based on determining that the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern, authenticate the interaction request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for authenticating an encrypted device identity, the system comprising: a memory device with computer-readable program code stored thereon; a communication device connected to a network; and a processing device, wherein the processing device is configured to execute the computer-readable program code to: receive an encrypted device identification of a user device, the encrypted device identification comprising a stream of generated data; identify a unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification, wherein the unique stream pattern is a distinguishable characteristic of the stream of generated data; store the unique stream pattern; receive an interaction request comprising a provided device identification; analyze the provided device identification to determine if the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern; and based on determining that the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern, authenticate the interaction request.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the user device is a first user device, and wherein the processing device is further configured to execute the computer-readable program code to distribute an identification of the unique stream pattern to a second user device, wherein the second user device is configured to authenticate the interaction request based on the identification of the unique stream pattern.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein distributing the identification of the unique stream pattern further comprises training the second user device to identify the unique stream pattern.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein storing the unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification further comprises training a machine learning model to identify the unique stream pattern.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein training the machine learning model comprises leveraging transfer learning techniques to reuse and retrain a preexisting machine learning model.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the user device comprises a random number generator installed on the user device, the random number generator being configured for generating the stream of generated data.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processing device is further configured to execute the computer-readable program code to install the random number generator on the user device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the stream of generated data is time-dependent.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the encrypted device identification comprises a signature electromagnetic radiation emission emitted by the user device.
10. A computer program product for authenticating an encrypted device identity, wherein the computer program product comprises a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-readable instructions, the computer-readable instructions, when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to: receive an encrypted device identification of a user device, the encrypted device identification comprising a stream of generated data; identify a unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification, wherein the unique stream pattern is a distinguishable characteristic of the stream of generated data; store the unique stream pattern; receive an interaction request comprising a provided device identification; analyze the provided device identification to determine if the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern; and based on determining that the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern, authenticate the interaction request.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the user device is a first user device, and wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processing device, further cause the processing device to distribute an identification of the unique stream pattern to a second user device, wherein the second user device is configured to authenticate the interaction request based on the identification of the unique stream pattern.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein distributing the identification of the unique stream pattern further comprises training the second user device to identify the unique stream pattern.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein storing the unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification further comprises training a machine learning model to identify the unique stream pattern.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein training the machine learning model comprises leveraging transfer learning techniques to reuse and retrain a preexisting machine learning model.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the user device comprises a random number generator installed on the user device, the random number generator being configured for generating the stream of generated data.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processing device, further cause the processing device to install the random number generator on the user device.
17. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the stream of generated data is time-dependent.
18. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the encrypted device identification comprises a signature electromagnetic radiation emission emitted by the user device.
19. A computer-implemented method for authenticating an encrypted device identity, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an encrypted device identification of a user device, the encrypted device identification comprising a stream of generated data; identifying a unique stream pattern of the encrypted device identification, wherein the unique stream pattern is a distinguishable characteristic of the stream of generated data; storing the unique stream pattern; receiving an interaction request comprising a provided device identification; analyzing the provided device identification to determine if the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern; and based on determining that the provided device identification has the unique stream pattern, authenticating the interaction request.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, wherein the user device is a first user device, and wherein the computer-implemented method further comprises distributing an identification of the unique stream pattern to a second user device, wherein the second user device is configured to authenticate the interaction request based on the identification of the unique stream pattern.
</claims>
</document>
