<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,A61B6/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOEHLER, THOMAS
GRASS, MICHAEL
BIPPUS, ROLF DIETER
HALLIBURTON, SANDRA SIMON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65138985
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SCAN PARAMETER ADAPTION DURING A CONTRAST ENHANCED SCAN
</title>

<abstract>
A computed tomography imaging system (102) includes an X-ray radiation source (110) configured to emit X-ray radiation that traverses an examination region (108) and an X-ray radiation sensitive detector array (112) configured to detect X-ray radiation traversing the examination region and generate a view of line integrals. The imaging system further includes a subject support table top (118) configured to translate in the examination region for a scan based on at least one scan parameter. The imaging system further includes an operator console (122), which includes a processor (128) and computer readable storage medium (130) with a scan parameter adapter module (132). The processor is configured to execute instructions of the scan parameter adapter module, which causes the processor to determine a contrast agent concentration from the view of line integrals and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the determined concentration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computed tomography imaging system, comprising: an X-ray radiation source configured to emit X-ray radiation that traverses an examination region; an X-ray radiation sensitive detector array configured to detect X-ray radiation traversing the examination region and generate a view of line integrals; a subject support table top configured to translate in the examination region for a scan based on at least one scan parameter; and an operator console, which includes a processor and computer readable storage medium with a scan parameter adapter module, wherein the processor is configured to execute instructions of the scan parameter adapter module, which causes the processor to determine a contrast agent concentration from the view of line integrals and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the determined concentration, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to forward project pre-scan volumetric image data to estimate a view of line integrals corresponding to the generated view of line integrals, and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the estimated and generated views of line integrals.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one scan parameter is a speed of the subject support table top.
3. (canceled)
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to determine a difference between the estimated and generated views of line integrals and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on differences between the line integrals.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to determine a metric based on the differences and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the metric, and wherein the processor computes the metric by summing at least a sub-set of the differences or by computing an integral of the differences.
6. 6-8. (canceled)
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the X-ray radiation sensitive detector array is a multi-layer energy resolving detector array, and the instructions further cause the processor to spectrally decompose the views of line integrals to generate a contrast agent map and adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the contrast agent map.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the X-ray radiation sensitive detector array includes one or more rows of detectors, and the view of line integrals includes lines integrals for a single row of detectors.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the X-ray radiation sensitive detector array includes multiple rows of detectors, and the view of line integrals includes lines integrals for one of a single row of detectors and multiples rows of detectors.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one scan parameter is adjusted so that a subsequent current view images a peak contrast concentration.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to adjust the at least one scan parameter based on at least one of contrast agent administration information and patient physiological information.
14. (canceled)
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions include a neural network configured to adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the contrast agent concentration, and the processor is configured to employ the neural network to adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the contrast agent concentration.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the neural network is trained with a machine or deep learning algorithm to adapt a speed of the subject support table top during a scan.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the neural network is trained with at least one of image data from patient scans, patient information of patients for the patient scans, acquisition for the patient scans and contrast agent parameters for the patient scans as input, and image quality criteria.
18. A method for computed tomography imaging, comprising: receiving views of projection data during a CT angiogram; determining, for one or more of the views, an amount of contrast agent in a current scan plane; adjusting a scan parameter of the CT angiogram in response to the amount of contrast agent not satisfying a pre-determined condition; and determining the amount of contrast agent in the current scan plane based on an estimated view of a same scan plane from pre-scan volumetric image data.
19. (canceled)
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: decomposing the one or more of the views to generate an iodine map; and determining the amount of contrast agent from the iodine map.
21. The method of claim 18, further comprising employing a trained neural network to adjust the at least one scan parameter based on the contrast agent concentration.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the neural network is trained with a machine or deep learning algorithm to adapt a speed of the subject support table top during a scan.
23. A non-transient computer readable medium encoded with computer executable instructions, where the computer executable instructions, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive views of projection data during a CT angiogram; determine, for one or more of the views, an amount of contrast agent in a current scan plane; adjust a scan parameter of the CT angiogram in response to the amount of contrast agent not satisfying a pre-determined condition; and determine the amount of contrast agent in the current scan plane based on an estimated view of a same scan plane from pre-scan volumetric image data.
24. (canceled)
25. The computer readable medium of claim 23, wherein the computer executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the processor to: decompose the one or more of the views to generate an iodine map; and determine the amount of contrast agent from the iodine map.
</claims>
</document>
