<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N99/00,G06T3/40,G06T5/00,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GROS, ERIC
HSIEH JIANG
NILSEN, ROY
TANG, JIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67659603
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PATIENT-SPECIFIC DEEP LEARNING IMAGE DENOISING METHODS AND SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for improved image denoising using a deep learning network model are disclosed. An example system includes an input data processor to process a first patient image of a first patient to add a first noise to the first patient image to form a noisy image input. The example system includes an image data denoiser to process the noisy image input using a first deep learning network to identify the first noise. The image data denoiser is to train the first deep learning network using the noisy image input. When the first deep learning network is trained to identify the first noise, the image data denoiser is to deploy the first deep learning network as a second deep learning network model to be applied to a second patient image of the first patient to identify a second noise in the second patient image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image data processing system comprising: an input data processor to process a first patient image of a first patient to add a first noise to the first patient image to form a noisy image input; and an image data denoiser to process the noisy image input using a first deep learning network to identify the first noise, the image data denoiser to train the first deep learning network using the noisy image input and to modify a network weight based on a comparison of a noise output of the first deep learning network to an expected noise output, wherein, when the first deep learning network is trained to identify the first noise, the image data denoiser is to deploy the first deep learning network as a second deep learning network model to be applied to a second patient image of the first patient to identify a second noise in the second patient image; a post-processing image generator to remove the second noise identified by the second deep learning network model from the second patient image to form a denoised patient image; and an output imager to output the denoised patient image.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the input data processor is to thicken the first patient image from a thin slice image volume to a thick slice image volume to reduce noise in the first patient image before the first noise is to be added to the first patient image.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first noise is to be obtained using at least one of a first phantom scan or a simulation.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first phantom scan is to be obtained on an imaging scanner used to obtain the first patient image.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the input data processor is to scale the first noise based on feedback.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the identified second noise is to be checked and refined before being removed from the second patient image by the image data denoiser.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the second deep learning network model is to be deployed with respect to the first patient and wherein the first deep learning network is to be trained with respect to the first patient and a user who is to review the second patient image and diagnose the first patient.
8. A computer-readable storage medium including instructions which, when executed, cause at least one processor to at least: process a first patient image of a first patient to add a first noise to the first patient image to form a noisy image input; train the first deep learning network using the noisy image input as input to identify the first noise; and when the first deep learning network is trained to identify the first noise, deploy the first deep learning network as a second deep learning network model to be applied to a second patient image of the first patient to identify a second noise in the second patient image, wherein the second noise identified by the second deep learning network model is to be removed from the second patient image to form a denoised patient image to be output.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to at least thicken the first patient image from a thin slice image volume to a thick slice image volume to reduce noise in the first patient image before the first noise is to be added to the first patient image.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first noise is to be obtained using at least one of a first phantom scan or a simulation.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first phantom scan is to be obtained on an imaging scanner used to obtain the first patient image.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to at least scale the first noise based on feedback.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the at least one processor to at least check and refine the identified second noise before the second noise is removed from the second patient image.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the second deep learning network model is to be deployed with respect to the first patient and wherein the first deep learning network is to be trained with respect to the first patient and a user who is to review the second patient image and diagnose the first patient.
15. A computer-implemented method of image denoising comprising: processing, using at least one processor, a first patient image of a first patient to add a first noise to the first patient image to form a noisy image input; training, using the at least one processor, the first deep learning network using the noisy image input as input to identify the first noise; and when the first deep learning network is trained to identify the first noise, deploying, using the at least one processor, the first deep learning network as a second deep learning network model to be applied to a second patient image of the first patient to identify a second noise in the second patient image, wherein the second noise identified by the second deep learning network model is to be removed from the second patient image to form a denoised patient image to be output.
16. The method of claim 15, further including thickening the first patient image from a thin slice image volume to a thick slice image volume to reduce noise in the first patient image before the first noise is to be added to the first patient image.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the first noise is to be obtained using at least one of a first phantom scan or a simulation.
18. The method of claim 15, further including scaling the first noise based on feedback.
19. The method of claim 15, further including checking and refining the identified second noise before the second noise is removed from the second patient image.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the second deep learning network model is to be deployed with respect to the first patient and wherein the first deep learning network is to be trained with respect to the first patient and a user who is to review the second patient image and diagnose the first patient.
</claims>
</document>
