<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02,A61B5/026,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEARTFLOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, GILWOO
GRADY, LEO
SCHAAP, MICHIEL
TAYLOR, CHARLES A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55755746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PREDICTING TISSUE VIABILITY DEFICITS FROM PHYSIOLOGICAL, ANATOMICAL, AND PATIENT CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for using patient-specific anatomical models and physiological parameters to predict viability of a target tissue or vessel to guide diagnosis or treatment of cardiovascular disease. One method includes: receiving a patient-specific vessel model and a patient-specific tissue model of a patient anatomy; receiving one or more patient-specific physiological parameters (e.g. blood flow, anatomical characteristics, etc.) for one or more physiological states; estimating a viability characteristic of the patient-specific tissue or vessel model (e.g., via a trained machine learning algorithm), using the patient-specific physiological parameters; and outputting the viability characteristic to an electronic storage medium or display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method for estimating tissue viability of a patient's tissue, the method comprising: receiving, via one or more processors, image data derived from one or more images of a patient's anatomy when a patient is at one or more physiological states; determining, via the one or more processors, one or more image characteristics based on the image data; generating, via the one or more processors, one or more patient-specific models based on the image data, each being a model of a vessel or tissue of the patient when the patient is at the one or more physiological states; calculating, via the one or more processors, patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters based on the one or more patient-specific models; computing, via the one or more processors, one or more tissue viability characteristics based on the one or more image characteristics and the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters; and outputting, to an electronic storage medium or a display, the computed tissue viability characteristics.
22. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters include perfusion territories, the patient-specific values include a patient tissue perfusion territory estimation, the method comprises: estimating a blood supply to one or more vessel or tissue areas, using a blood flow simulation in at least one of the one or more patient-specific models; determining the patient tissue perfusion territory estimation based on the estimated blood supply; modifying the patient-specific model or the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters; determining an effect of the modifying the patient-specific model or at least one of the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters on the computed tissue viability value; generating a treatment plan based on the determined effect; and outputting the treatment plan to the electronic storage medium or the display.
23. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters include one or more anatomical characteristics including vessel size, vessel shape, vessel tortuosity, vessel length, vessel thickness, or a combination thereof.
24. The computer implemented method of claim 21, the one or more physiological states include a resting patient state, a hyperemic state, an exercise state, a postprandial state, a gravitational state, an emotional state, a state of hypertension, a medicated state, or a combination thereof.
25. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more tissue viability characteristics include a measure of an extent to which a vessel, tissue, or organ is functional.
26. The computer implemented method of claim 22, wherein the estimated blood supply includes fractional flow reserve, flow magnitude, flow direction, or a combination thereof.
27. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more image characteristics include, one or more of: local average intensities, texture characteristics, and standard image features.
28. The computer implemented method of claim 21, further including receiving one or more secondary characteristics including patient characteristics, target tissue disease characteristics, electromechanical measurements, or a combination thereof.
29. The computer implemented method of claim 21, further including comparing blood flow characteristics in the tissue or a vessel at different physiological states.
30. The computer implemented method of claim 21, wherein the one or more patient-specific models include: a coronary vascular model and a model of the myocardium; a cerebral vascular model and a model of the brain; a peripheral vascular model and a model of muscle; a hepatic vascular model and a model of a liver; a renal vascular model and a model of a kidney; a visceral vascular model and a model of a bowel; or a vascular model representing a vessel and a target organ to which blood is supplied by the vessel.
31. The computer implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: adjusting the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters based on the computed tissue viability characteristics; and simulating a blood flow characteristic using the computed tissue viability characteristics and the adjusted patient-specific values.
32. The computer implemented method of claim 22, wherein the treatment plan is generated based further on the modified patient-specific model or the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters.
33. A system for estimating patient-specific tissue viability, the system comprising: a data storage device storing instructions for determining characteristics of tissue viability; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including the steps of: receiving image data derived from one or more images of a patient's anatomy when a patient is at one or more physiological states; determining one or more image characteristics based on the image data; generating one or more patient-specific models based on the image data, each being a model of a vessel or tissue of the patient when the patient is at the one or more physiological states; calculating patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters based on the one or more patient-specific models; computing one or more tissue viability characteristics based on the one or more image characteristics and the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters; and outputting, to an electronic storage medium or a display, the computed tissue viability characteristics.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters include perfusion territories, the patient-specific values include a patient tissue perfusion territory estimation, the method further comprises: estimating a blood supply to one or more vessel or tissue areas, using a blood flow simulation in at least one of the one or more patient-specific models; determining the patient tissue perfusion territory estimation based on the estimated blood supply; modifying the patient-specific model or the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters; determining an effect of the modifying the patient-specific model or at least one of the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters on the computed tissue viability value; generating a treatment plan based on the determined effect; and outputting the treatment plan to the electronic storage medium or the display.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the one or more physiological states include a resting patient state, a hyperemic state, an exercise state, a postprandial state, a gravitational state, an emotional state, a state of hypertension, a medicated state, or a combination thereof.
36. The system of claim 33, wherein the one or more tissue viability characteristics include a measure of the extent to which a vessel, tissue, or organ is functional.
37. The system of claim 34, wherein the estimated blood supply includes fractional flow reserve, flow magnitude, flow direction, or a combination thereof.
38. The system of claim 33, wherein the estimating the tissue viability characteristics includes comparing blood flow characteristics in a tissue or a vessel at different physiological states.
39. The system of claim 33, wherein the one or more patient-specific models include: a coronary vascular model and the myocardium; a cerebral vascular model and the brain; a peripheral vascular model and muscle; a hepatic vascular model and a liver; a renal vascular model and a kidney; a visceral vascular model and a bowel; or a vascular model representing a vessel and a target organ to which blood is supplied by the vessel.
40. A non-transitory computer readable medium for performing a method on a computer system containing computer-executable programming instructions for estimating a characteristic of tissue viability, the method comprising: receiving, via one or more processors, image data derived from one or more images of a patient's anatomy when a patient is at one or more physiological states; determining, via the one or more processors, one or more image characteristics based on the image data; generating, via the one or more processors, one or more patient-specific models based on the image data, each being a model of a vessel or tissue of the patient when the patient is at the one or more physiological states; calculating, via the one or more processors, patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters based on the one or more patient-specific models; computing, via the one or more processors, one or more tissue viability characteristics based on the image characteristics and the patient-specific values of the one or more physiological or anatomical parameters; and outputting, to an electronic storage medium or a display, the computed tissue viability characteristics.
</claims>
</document>
