<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/284,G06K9/62,G06N20/20,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CDW
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOMEZAK, GREGORY
BHATTACHARYA, SUNRITO
HE, YUXI
SWAROOP, RAJAT
CHEN, YUQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122235
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Account manager virtual assistant using machine learning techniques
</title>

<abstract>
A method for machine learning-based account manager virtual assistant message processing includes receiving a message of a user, preprocessing the message to generate a normalized data set, analyzing the normalized data using a classification machine learning model, analyzing the normalized data using a deep learning machine learning model, generating a response based on the output of the first and second machine learning models, and transmitting the response to the user. An account manager virtual assistant computing system includes a processor and a memory storing instructions that cause the account manager virtual assistant system to receive a message from a user, process the message using a first machine learning model, process the message using a second machine learning model, when the message is a request for quote, generate a response and transmit the response to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automating tasks using machine learning-based account manager virtual assistant message processing, executed by at least one processor, comprising: receiving, via an electronic network, a free-form electronic message of a user, preprocessing the electronic message to generate a normalized extracted data set, analyzing the normalized extracted data using a trained classification machine learning model to generate a classification data set, analyzing the normalized extracted data using a trained information extraction machine learning model to generate an information extraction data set, wherein the trained information extraction machine learning model is a deep learning model trained using a matrix of values corresponding to a curated training data set of normalized messages, generating, based on the information extraction data set and the classification data set, a response; and transmitting, via an electronic network, the response to the user in a response electronic message.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein preprocessing the electronic message to generate a normalized extracted data set includes determining whether the user is a customer or an account manager.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein transmitting the response to the user includes transmitting the response to an account manager associated with an account of the customer.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, from the account manager, an indication that the response is complete, and transmitting the response to a customer associated with the response.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the electronic message from the user is an email.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the training of the trained information extraction machine learning model includes tokenizing the electronic message character-by-character.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the classification machine learning model is a random forest classifier.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein training the classification machine learning model includes analyzing a training data set including one or more electronic message, each electronic message including a label, an original message text, a normalized message text, and an indication of quotation language.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: retrieving, when the classification data set indicates that the electronic message includes a request for quote, item information corresponding to at least one item in the information extraction data set.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: when the classification data set indicates that the electronic message does not include a request for quote, mapping a customer identifier to a customer email address.
11. An account manager virtual assistant computing system, comprising: one or more processor, a memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed, cause the account manager virtual assistant system to: receive an electronic message from a user, process the electronic message using a trained classification machine learning model to generate a classification data set including an indication of whether the electronic message is a request for quote, when the electronic message is a request for quote, generate a response including price information corresponding to each of the set of item and quantity tuples, and process the electronic message using a trained information extraction machine learning model to generate an information extraction data set including a set of item and quantity tuples, wherein the trained information extraction machine learning model is a deep learning model; and transmit the response to the user of the electronic message.
12. The account manager virtual assistant computing system of claim 11, wherein the electronic message is an email.
13. The account manager virtual assistant computing system of claim 11, the memory storing further computer-readable instructions that, when executed, cause the account manager virtual assistant system to: retrieve, from a products application programming interface, a set of pricing, inventory and/or availability information relating to each of the item and quantity tuples; and update the response using the pricing, inventory, and/or availability information.
14. The account manager virtual assistant computing system of claim 11, the memory storing further computer-readable instructions that, when executed, cause the account manager virtual assistant system to: determine, based on the information extraction data set, whether the user is an account manager or a customer.
15. The account manager virtual assistant computing system of claim 11 wherein the training of the trained information extraction machine learning model includes tokenizing the electronic message character-by-character.
16. The account manager virtual assistant computing system of claim 11 wherein the classification machine learning model is a random forest classifier.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing program instructions that when executed, cause a computer to: receive an electronic message from a user, process the electronic message using a trained classification machine learning model to generate a classification data set including an indication of whether the electronic message is a request for quote, process the electronic message using a trained information extraction machine learning model to generate an information extraction data set including a set of item and quantity tuples, wherein the trained information extraction machine learning model is a deep learning model, when the electronic message is a request for quote, generate a response including price information corresponding to each of the set of item and quantity tuples; and transmit the response to the user of the electronic message.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the electronic message is an email.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the classification machine learning model is a random forest classifier.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17 containing further program instructions that, when executed, cause the computer to: determine, based on the information extraction data set, whether the user is a customer or an account manager.
</claims>
</document>
