<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAT, PRAVEEN KASHYAP ANANTA
Koki, Tarakesava Reddy
Fernandez, Jaison
Padekar, Ruchi Sitaram
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCKING AND POSITION STATUS DETECTION SCHEME FOR AN ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An example apparatus comprises a first member with a first surface, where the first member is movable relative to a second member with a second surface. The first member comprises a first magnet configured to produce a first magnetic field. The second member comprises a sensor operatively connected to a processor and a second magnet adjacent to the sensor. In a first position, the first magnet and the second magnet are engaged to magnetically hold the first member to the second member such that at least a portion of the first surface of the first member opposes at least a portion of the second surface of the second member. In the first position, the sensor is to detect the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet and is to send a signal to the processor in response to detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a first member with a first surface, the first member comprising a first magnet configured to produce a first magnetic field; a second member with a second surface, wherein the first member is movable relative to the second member, the second member comprising: a sensor operatively connected to a processor; and a second magnet adjacent to the sensor, wherein in a first position, the first magnet and the second magnet are engaged to magnetically hold the first member to the second member such that at least a portion of the first surface of the first member opposes at least a portion of the second surface of the second member, and the sensor is to detect the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet and is to send a signal to the processor in response to detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second magnet is oriented relative to the sensor to produce a second magnetic field that is undetectable by the sensor.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first magnet is oriented such that the first magnetic field runs perpendicular to the first surface of the first member, and wherein the second magnet is oriented such that the second magnetic field produced by the second magnet runs parallel to the second surface of the second member.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first magnet and the second magnet are selected from a group of magnets, the group of magnets including a bar magnet, a cylindrical magnet, and a disk magnet.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member comprises: a first display screen with an edge spaced from an end of the first member; and a first bezel area between the edge of the first display screen and the end of the first member, wherein the first magnet is contained in the first bezel area.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the second member comprises: a second display screen with an edge spaced from an end of the second member; and a second bezel area between the edge of the second display screen and the end of the second member, wherein the sensor and the second magnet are contained in the second bezel area.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is to: change from a working state to a sleep state when the first member is moved from a second position to the first position.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the apparatus further comprising: a mechanical attachment component connecting a first end of the first member and a second end of the second member and defining a fixed axis of rotation about which at least the first member is rotatable.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein in a second position, the first surface of the first member and the second surface of the second member define an angle sufficient to prevent attraction between the first magnet and the second magnet, and the sensor is to stop detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet and is to stop sending the signal to the processor.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first member is slidably movable in a longitudinal direction relative to the second member to at least one other position.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the second member further comprises: a second display screen, wherein in the first position, the first member covers a lower section of the second display screen, and wherein the processor is to: in response to receiving the signal from the sensor, prevent data from being displayed in the lower section of the second display screen; and provide data for display in an upper exposed section of the second display screen.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, and wherein the second member further comprises: a second sensor operatively connected to the processor; and a third magnet adjacent to the second sensor, wherein in a second position, the first magnet and the third magnet are engaged to magnetically hold the first member to the second member such that the first surface of the first member opposes a second portion of the second surface of the second member, and the second sensor is to detect the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet and is to send a second signal to the processor in response to detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the second member further comprises: a second display screen, wherein in the second position, the first member covers an upper section of the second display screen, and wherein the processor is to: in response to receiving the second signal from the second sensor, prevent data from being displayed in the upper section of the second display screen; and configure a lower section of the second display screen for an alternative use.
14. A system comprising: a processor; a first magnet disposed in a first member; a sensor operatively connected to the processor and disposed in a second member connected to the first member, wherein the first member is movable relative to the second member, the sensor to: detect, when the first member is in a first position, a first magnetic field produced by the first magnet; and send a signal to the processor in response to detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet; and a second magnet disposed in the second member and adjacent to the sensor, the second magnet to engage the first magnet to magnetically hold the first member to the second member when the first member is in the first position.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the second magnet oriented relative to the sensor to produce a second magnetic field that is not detectable by the sensor.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first magnet is oriented such that the first magnetic field runs perpendicular to a first surface of the first member, and wherein the second magnet is oriented such that the second magnetic field runs parallel to a second surface of the second member.
17. The system of claim 14, the system further comprising: a display screen contained in the first member, the display screen having an edge spaced from an end of the first member; and a bezel area between the edge of the display screen and the end of the first member, wherein the first magnet is contained in the bezel area.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is to: change from a working state to a sleep state when the first member is moved from a second position to the first position.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the first member is longitudinally movable relative to the second member to at least one other position.
20. A method comprising: magnetically holding a first member of a computing device to a second member of the computing device in a first position such that at least a portion of the first member opposes at least a portion of the second member, wherein the first member is magnetically held to the second member by a first magnet disposed in the first member engaging a second magnet disposed in the second member; detecting, by a sensor disposed in the second member adjacent to the second magnet, a first magnetic field produced by the first magnet in the first member; and in response to the detecting the first magnetic field produced by the first magnet, sending a signal to a processor to indicate that the first member is in the first position.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the second magnet is oriented relative to the sensor to produce a second magnetic field that is undetectable by the sensor.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the first magnet is oriented such that the first magnetic field runs perpendicular to a first surface of the first member, and wherein the second magnet is oriented such that a second magnetic field produced by the second magnet runs parallel to a second surface of the second member.
23. The method of claim 20, further comprising: changing a state of the computing device to a sleep state based on the processor receiving the signal indicating that the first member is in the first position; and changing the state of the computing device to a working state based on the processor not receiving the signal indicating that the first member is in the first position.
</claims>
</document>
