<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU ON-LINE NETWORK TECHNOLOGY (BEIJING) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUAN, JIANGUO
LI, YANYAN
XIONG HUI
ZHOU, JINGBO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65343942
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR GENERATING INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide a method and apparatus for generating information. A method may include: determining, according to received positioning request information, visiting information for a target area of interest, the visiting information including location information of at least one visiting point; determining, according to the location information of the at least one visiting point, a visiting point distribution map including the at least one visiting point; performing grid division on the visiting point distribution map, to obtain a first grid map including at least one grid; and generating, based on the first grid map, outline information for the target area of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating information, comprising: determining, according to received positioning request information, visiting information for a target area of interest, the visiting information comprising location information of at least one visiting point; determining, according to the location information of the at least one visiting point, a visiting point distribution map comprising the at least one visiting point; performing grid division on the visiting point distribution map, to obtain a first grid map comprising at least one grid; and generating, based on the first grid map, outline information for the target area of interest.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: performing a filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain a second grid map; determining, from the second grid map, a grid as a boundary grid; and generating, according to location information of the boundary grid, the outline information for the target area of interest.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the second grid map comprises road location information, and determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid comprises: determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid, according to the road location information and location information of the grid in the second grid map.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein performing the filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain the second grid map comprises: for each of the at least one grid in the first grid map: determining whether a number of visiting points included in the grid is less than a preset number threshold; and deleting the grid in response to determining the number of visiting points included in the grid being less than the preset number threshold; and using, in response to determining a completion of the filtering processing performed on each grid in the first grid map, the processed first grid map as the second grid map.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: inputting the first grid map into a pre-established generation model, to obtain boundary pixel point information, the pre-established generation model being used to represent a corresponding relationship between a grid map and boundary pixel point information; and generating, according to the obtained boundary pixel point information, the outline information for the target area of interest.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the pre-established generation model is trained and obtained by: acquiring a set of training samples, a training sample comprising the grid map and the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the grid map; using the grid map of the training sample in the set of training samples as an input; and using the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the inputted grid map as an expected output, to train and obtain the pre-established generation model.
7. An apparatus for generating information, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining, according to received positioning request information, visiting information for a target area of interest, the visiting information comprising location information of at least one visiting point; determining, according to the location information of the at least one visiting point, a visiting point distribution map comprising the at least one visiting point; performing grid division on the visiting point distribution map, to obtain a first grid map comprising at least one grid; and generating, based on the first grid map, outline information for the target area of interest.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: performing a filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain a second grid map; determining, from the second grid map, a grid as a boundary grid; and generating, according to location information of the boundary grid, the outline information for the target area of interest.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the second grid map comprises road location information, and determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid comprises: determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid, according to the road location information and location information of the grid in the second grid map.
10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein performing the filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain the second grid map comprises: for each of the at least one grid in the first grid map: determining whether a number of visiting points included in the grid is less than a preset number threshold; and deleting the grid in response to determining the number of visiting points included in the grid being less than the preset number threshold; and using, in response to determining a completion of the filtering processing performed on each grid in the first grid map, the processed first grid map as the second grid map.
11. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: inputting the first grid map into a pre-established generation model, to obtain boundary pixel point information, the pre-established generation model being used to represent a corresponding relationship between a grid map and boundary pixel point information; and generating, according to the obtained boundary pixel point information, the outline information for the target area of interest.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the pre-established generation model is trained and obtained by: acquiring a set of training samples, a training sample comprising the grid map and the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the grid map; using the grid map of the training sample in the set of training samples as an input; and using the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the inputted grid map as an expected output, to train and obtain the pre-established generation model.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium, storing a computer program, wherein the computer program, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining, according to received positioning request information, visiting information for a target area of interest, the visiting information comprising location information of at least one visiting point; determining, according to the location information of the at least one visiting point, a visiting point distribution map comprising the at least one visiting point; performing grid division on the visiting point distribution map, to obtain a first grid map comprising at least one grid; and generating, based on the first grid map, outline information for the target area of interest.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 13, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: performing a filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain a second grid map; determining, from the second grid map, a grid as a boundary grid; and generating, according to location information of the boundary grid, the outline information for the target area of interest.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, wherein the second grid map comprises road location information, and determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid comprises: determining, from the second grid map, the grid as the boundary grid, according to the road location information and location information of the grid in the second grid map.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, wherein performing the filtering processing on the at least one grid in the first grid map to obtain the second grid map comprises: for each of the at least one grid in the first grid map: determining whether a number of visiting points included in the grid is less than a preset number threshold; and deleting the grid in response to determining the number of visiting points included in the grid being less than the preset number threshold; and using, in response to determining a completion of the filtering processing performed on each grid in the first grid map, the processed first grid map as the second grid map.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 13, wherein generating, based on the first grid map, the outline information for the target area of interest comprises: inputting the first grid map into a pre-established generation model, to obtain boundary pixel point information, the pre-established generation model being used to represent a corresponding relationship between a grid map and boundary pixel point information; and generating, according to the obtained boundary pixel point information, the outline information for the target area of interest.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 17, wherein the pre-established generation model is trained and obtained by: acquiring a set of training samples, a training sample comprising the grid map and the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the grid map; using the grid map of the training sample in the set of training samples as an input; and using the boundary pixel point information corresponding to the inputted grid map as an expected output, to train and obtain the pre-established generation model.
</claims>
</document>
