<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/046
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, GWAN-HYUNG
KIM, SANG HO
SHIM, HUI JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65041133
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY APPARATUS AND METHOD OF CONTROLLING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a display apparatus and a method of controlling the display apparatus. The display apparatus comprises a first signal transceiver; a second signal transceiver installed at a position different from the first signal transceiver; a processor configured to determine a position in a two-dimensional space or a three-dimensional space of at least one detection object using the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver, and to generate a control signal corresponding to the position of the at least one detection object; and a display configured to operate according to the control signal. The processor is configured to control at least one of the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver to radiate a first electromagnetic wave of a first frequency, when the at least one of the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver receives a first reflected wave reflected from the at least one detection object, to control the first signal transceiver to radiate a second electromagnetic wave of a second frequency higher than the first frequency, and to control the second signal transceiver to radiate a third electromagnetic wave of a third frequency higher than the first frequency, and to determine the position of the at least one detection object based on a second reflected wave corresponding to the second electromagnetic wave and a third reflected wave corresponding to the third electromagnetic wave.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display apparatus comprising: a first signal transceiver; a second signal transceiver installed at a position different from the first signal transceiver; a processor configured to determine a position in a two-dimensional space or a three-dimensional space of at least one detection object using the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver, and to generate a control signal corresponding to the position of the at least one detection object; and a display configured to operate according to the control signal, wherein the processor is configured to: control at least one of the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver to radiate a first electromagnetic wave of a first frequency; when the at least one of the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver receives a first reflected wave reflected from the at least one detection object, control the first signal transceiver to radiate a second electromagnetic wave of a second frequency higher than the first frequency, and control the second signal transceiver to radiate a third electromagnetic wave of a third frequency higher than the first frequency; and determine the position of the at least one detection object based on a second reflected wave corresponding to the second electromagnetic wave and a third reflected wave corresponding to the third electromagnetic wave.
2. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the first signal transceiver to transmit a fourth electromagnetic wave of a fourth frequency that is higher than the first frequency and lower than the second frequency, and the first signal transceiver is configured to receive a fourth reflected wave corresponding to the fourth electromagnetic wave; and wherein the processor is configured to control the second signal transceiver to transmit a fifth electromagnetic wave of a fifth frequency that is higher than the first frequency and lower than the third frequency, and the second signal transceiver is configured to receive a fifth reflected wave corresponding to the fifth electromagnetic wave.
3. The display apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to determine whether a plurality of the detection objects exist based on the fourth reflected wave or the fifth reflected wave.
4. The display apparatus according to claim 3, wherein, when it is determined that the plurality of detection objects exist, the processor is configured to control the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver to transmit the second electromagnetic wave and the third electromagnetic wave, respectively.
5. The display apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising: a third signal transceiver disposed at a position different from the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver, configured to radiate a sixth electromagnetic wave, wherein, when it is determined that the plurality of detection objects exist, the processor is configured to control the first signal transceiver, the second signal transceiver, and the third signal transceiver to transmit the second electromagnetic wave, the third electromagnetic wave, and the sixth electromagnetic wave, respectively.
6. The display apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to determine a position of any one of the plurality of detection objects based on at least one of the first signal transceiver, the second signal transceiver, and the third signal transceiver.
7. The display apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the first signal transceiver to radiate the first electromagnetic wave periodically or continuously.
8. The display apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising: a fourth signal transceiver configured to radiate an eighth electromagnetic wave in an inclined direction with respect to one surface on which a screen of the display is displayed, and to receive an eighth reflected wave correspond to the eighth electromagnetic wave and reflected by the at least one detection object.
9. The display apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to determine a position of the at least one detection object based on the second reflected wave, the third reflected wave, and the eighth reflected wave.
10. The display apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to determine distances between the at least one detection object and the first signal transceiver, the second signal transceiver, and the fourth signal transceiver based on the second reflected wave, the third reflected wave, and the eighth reflected wave, and to determine the distance between the at least one detection object and the one surface using the determined distances.
11. A method of controlling a display apparatus comprising: transmitting, by a first signal transceiver, a first electromagnetic wave of a first frequency; receiving, by the first signal transceiver, a first reflected wave corresponding to the first electromagnetic wave and reflected by a detection object; transmitting, by the first signal transceiver, a second electromagnetic wave of a second frequency higher than the first frequency, and receiving a second reflected wave corresponding to the second electromagnetic wave; transmitting, by a second signal transceiver, a third electromagnetic wave of a third frequency higher than the first frequency, and receiving a third reflected wave corresponding to the third electromagnetic wave; and determining, by a processor, a position of the detection object based on the second reflected wave and the third reflected wave.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: transmitting, by the first signal transceiver, a fourth electromagnetic wave of a fourth frequency that is higher than the first frequency and lower than the second frequency, and receiving a fourth reflected wave corresponding to the fourth electromagnetic wave; and transmitting, by the second signal transceiver, a fifth electromagnetic wave of a fifth frequency that is higher than the first frequency and lower than the third frequency, and receiving a fifth reflected wave corresponding to the fifth electromagnetic wave.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: determining, by the processor, whether a plurality of the detection objects exist based on the fourth reflected wave or the fifth reflected wave.
14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: when it is determined that the plurality of detection objects exist, transmitting, by the first signal transceiver, the second signal transceiver, and the third signal transceiver, the second electromagnetic wave, the third electromagnetic wave, and a sixth electromagnetic wave, respectively, wherein the third signal transceiver is installed at a position different from the first signal transceiver and the second signal transceiver; and determining, by the processor, a position of any one of the plurality of detection objects based on at least one of the first signal transceiver, the second signal transceiver, and the third signal transceiver.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein further comprising: radiating, by a fourth signal transceiver, an eighth electromagnetic wave, and receiving an eighth reflected wave correspond to the eighth electromagnetic wave and reflected from at least one detection object; and determining, by the processor, a position of the at least one detection object based on the second reflected wave, the third reflected wave, and the eighth reflected wave, wherein the fourth signal transceiver is configured to radiate electromagnetic waves in an inclined direction with respect to one surface on which a screen of a display is displayed.
</claims>
</document>
