<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/145,G16H10/60,G16H40/67,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Livongo Health, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ellis, Robert J
Townley-Smith, Emma
Yang, Wen
Fakhouri, Tamer
Mehta, Keval
Bridgewater, Jesse
Shah, Bimal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING HEALTH METRIC IRREGULARITIES WHEN PROVIDING HEALTH SERVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Providing to a person a health service for a health condition includes receiving, from a health sensor of a mobile health device over an initial period, a plurality of initial values of health metrics of the person associated with performance of the health service, determining, based on the initial values, baseline values of the health metrics for the person, receiving, from the health sensor at a time after the initial period, an additional value corresponding to at least one of the health metrics, and determining whether the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values for the person. Providing to a person a health service for a health condition may also include, if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, communicating the irregularity to a provider of the health service.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-115. (canceled)
116. A method of providing to a person a health service for a health condition, comprising: receiving, from a health sensor of a mobile health device over an initial period, a plurality of initial values of health metrics of the person associated with performance of the health service; determining, based on the initial values, baseline values of the health metrics for the person; receiving, from the health sensor at a time after the initial period, an additional value corresponding to at least one of the health metrics; and determining whether the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values for the person.
117. The method of claim 116, further comprising: if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, communicating the irregularity to a provider of the health service.
118. The method of claim 116, further comprising: if it is determined that the additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, communicating the irregularity to an operator of the mobile health device.
119. The method of claim 118, further comprising: receiving input from the operator through a user interface of the mobile health device to address the irregularity.
120. The method of claim 116, further comprising: the mobile health device communicating the initial values and the additional value to a remote device remotely coupled to the mobile health device; and the remote device determining the baseline values and determining whether the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values.
121. The method of claim 120, further comprising: if the remote device determines that the additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, the remote device communicating the irregularity to an operator of the mobile health device, wherein the mobile health device receiving the additional value, determining whether the additional value represents an irregularity, and communicating the irregularity are performed in real-time.
122. The method of claim 116, wherein determining baseline values of the health and determining whether the additional value represents an irregularity are performed by the mobile health device.
123. A system for providing a health service to a person for a health condition, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory having code stored thereon that, when executed, receives, from a health sensor of a mobile health device over an initial period, a plurality of initial values of health metrics of the person associated with performance of the health service, determines, based on the initial values, baseline values of the health metrics for the person, receives, from the health sensor at a time after the initial period, an additional value corresponding to at least one of the health metrics, and determines whether the additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values for the person.
124. The system of claim 123, wherein if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, the irregularity is communicated to a provider of the health service.
125. The system of claim 123, wherein if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, the irregularity is communicated to an operator of the mobile health device.
126. The system of claim 125, wherein input from the operator is received through a user interface of the mobile health device to address the irregularity.
127. The system of claim 123, wherein the mobile health device communicates the initial values and the additional value to a remote device remotely coupled to the mobile health device and wherein the remote device determines the baseline values and determines whether additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values.
128. The system of claim 127, wherein if the remote device determines that the additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, the remote device communicates the irregularity to an operator of the mobile health device.
129. The system of claim 128, wherein the mobile health device receiving the additional value, determining whether the additional value represent an irregularity, and communicating the irregularity are all performed in real-time.
130. Non-transitory computer-readable media having software stored thereon for providing a person with a health service for a health condition, the software comprising: executable code that receives, from a health sensor of a mobile health device over an initial period, a plurality of initial values of health metrics of the person associated with performance of the health service; executable code that determines, based on the initial values, baseline values of the health metrics for the person; executable code that receives, from the health sensor at a time after the initial period, an additional value corresponding to at least one of the health metrics; and executable code that determines whether the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to baseline values for the person.
131. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 130, the software further comprising: executable code that, if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, communicates the irregularity to a provider of the health service.
132. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 130, the software further comprising: executable code that, if it is determined that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, communicates the irregularity to an operator of the mobile health device.
133. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 132, the software further comprising: executable code that receives input from the operator through a user interface of the mobile health device to address the irregularity.
134. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 130, the software further comprising: executable code that controls the mobile health device to communicate the initial values and the additional value to a remote device coupled to the mobile health device; and executable code that controls the remote device to determine the initial values and to determine whether the additional value represent an irregularity with respect to the baseline values.
135. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 134, the software further comprising: executable code that, if the remote device determines that the additional value represents an irregularity with respect to the baseline values, controls the remote device to communicate the irregularity to an operator of the mobile health device, wherein receiving the values, determining whether the additional values represent an irregularity, and communicating the irregularity are performed in real-time.
136. 136.-150. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
