<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q40/08,G16H10/40,G16H10/60,G16H20/10,G16H50/20,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HC1.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLARKE, CHARLES J.
ROBINSON, WILLIAM E.
BREEDLOVE, LAURA S.
BOSTIC, BRADLEY A.
PRESTON, MARK L.
WOLFGANG, JASON P.
Kennedy, Ryan C.
Oder, Richard J.
Pandelidis, Ioannis
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423927
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A PHARMACOLOGICAL TRACKING AND REPORTING PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure generally includes methods and systems for recommending a lab test for a patient is disclosed. The method includes obtaining a proposed prescription for the patient from an external data source. The method further includes obtaining patient attributes for the patient, including a diagnosis of the patient. The method also includes determining whether to recommend one or more different lab tests for the patient prior to the patient beginning the proposed prescription based on the proposed prescription and the patient attributes, and providing a testing recommendation to a customer relationship management system, wherein the testing recommendation indicates the one or more different tests that are recommended for the patient in response to determining to recommend one or more different lab tests for the patient, wherein the customer relationship management system transmits the testing recommendation to a healthcare system of a clinic of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for detecting misuse of a controlled medication of a patient, the method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system, lab test results of the patient from a lab testing system; obtaining, by the processing system, patient attributes of the patient from one or more patient data sources; generating, by the processing system, a usage profile corresponding to the patient based on the lab test results of the patient and the patient attributes; determining, by the processing system, whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse of the controlled medication based on one or more features of the usage profile; and in response to determining potential misuse of the controlled medication, transmitting a notification that indicates the potential misuse by the patient.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the potential misuse of the controlled medication is overuse of the controlled medication.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the potential misuse of the controlled medication is underuse of the controlled medication.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the usage profile includes combining multiple test results of the patient to obtain a history of lab results of the patient.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient attributes include two or more of: an age of the patient, a weight of the patient, a body type of the patient, and an activity level of a patient.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the patient attributes are obtained from an electronic medical record database of a healthcare system associated with a clinic of the patient.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the patient attributes are obtained from an insurer database of an insurance system associated with an insurance provider of the patient.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse includes: identifying a set of features based on the usage profile; inputting the set of features into a machine learned classification model that is trained to classify instances of potential misuse of the classified medication; obtaining a classification from the machine learned classification model and a confidence score indicating a degree of confidence in the classification determined by the machine learned classification model; and determining whether the usage profile is indicative of the potential misuse based on the classification and the confidence score.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse includes: identifying a set of features based on the usage profile; clustering the usage profile with a plurality of other usage profiles using a clustering algorithm, each other usage profile respectively corresponding to a respective previous patient that was prescribed the controlled medication and deemed either to be indicative of potential misuse of the controlled medication or of proper use of the controlled medication; determining a cluster of the usage profile of the patient to which the usage profile was clustered, wherein the cluster includes a subset of the plurality of other usage profiles; determining whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse of the controlled medication based on the other usage profiles in the subset of the plurality of other usage profiles.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse includes: identifying a set of features based on the usage profile; and applying a set of rules to the features to determine whether the usage profile is indicative of potential misuse.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the lab test results include results from a urine analysis test.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the lab test results include results from a blood test.
13. A computer implemented method for recommending a lab test for a patient, the method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system, a proposed prescription for the patient from an external data source, the proposed prescription indicating a medication; obtaining, by the processing system, patient attributes for the patient, including a diagnosis of the patient; determining, by the processing system, whether to recommend one or more different lab tests for the patient prior to the patient beginning the proposed prescription based on the proposed prescription and the patient attributes; in response to determining to recommend one or more different lab tests for the patient, providing, by the processing system, a testing recommendation to a customer relationship management system, wherein the testing recommendation indicates the one or more different tests that are recommended for the patient, wherein the customer relationship management system transmits the testing recommendation to a healthcare system of a clinic of the patient.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein determining whether to recommend the one or more different lab tests includes: identifying a set of features based on the proposed prescription and the patient attributes; inputting the set of features into one or more machine learned models that are respectively trained to determine whether to recommend a respective lab test; obtaining one or more respective recommendations from the one or more respective machine learned models based on the set of features, wherein each respective recommendation indicates whether the respective lab test should be performed for the patient given the patient attributes and has a confidence score that indicates a degree of confidence in the recommendation; and for each recommendation, determining whether to recommend the respective lab test indicated therein based on the confidence score of the recommendation.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 14, wherein each of the one or more machine learned models corresponds to the medication.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 14, wherein each of the one or more machine learned models is trained on a plurality of training data samples that respectively correspond to a plurality of previous patients that were prescribed the medication, wherein each training data sample includes respective patient attributes of the respective previous patient and an outcome related to the medication for the previous patient.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 16, wherein each training data sample further includes one or more lab test results of the respective previous patient.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein determining whether to recommend the one or more different lab tests includes: identifying a set of features based on the proposed prescription and the patient attributes; inputting the set of features into a machine learned model that is trained to determine whether to recommend one or more of a plurality of different lab tests given a set of patient attributes; obtaining a recommendation and a confidence score corresponding to the recommendation from the machine learned model based on the set of features, wherein the recommendation indicates any of the plurality of different lab tests that should be performed for the patient given the patient attributes, and the confidence score indicates a degree of confidence in the recommendation; and determining whether to accept the recommendation based on the confidence score of the recommendation.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 18, wherein the machine learned model corresponds to the medication.
20. The computer implemented method of claim 18, wherein the machine learned model is trained on a plurality of training data samples that respectively correspond to a plurality of previous patients that were prescribed the medication, wherein each training data sample includes respective patient attributes of the respective previous patient and an outcome related to the medication for the previous patient.
21. The computer implemented method of claim 20, wherein each training data sample further includes one or more lab test results of the respective previous patient.
22. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein determining whether to recommend the one or more different lab tests includes: identifying a set of features based on the usage profile; and applying a set of rules to the features to determine whether to recommend the one or more different lab tests based on the set of features and one or more conditions defined in the set of rules.
23. The computer implemented method of claim 13, wherein the different lab tests include at least one of a genetic test, a blood test, and a urine analysis test.
</claims>
</document>
