<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<assignee>
DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYUN SIK
PARK, JEE HUN
LEE, SANG JIN
PARK, JAE HYEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70470667
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR DIAGNOSING ANALYSIS AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus and method for diagnosing analysis is provided. The apparatus includes an analytic layer to divide a peripheral space of a target component into a plurality of cells and to derive analytic data by performing a numerical analysis iteration according to computational fluid dynamics for the plurality of cells; a model layer to derive an analytic model that simulates the numerical analysis iteration; a predictive layer to derive predictive data by predicting a result of the numerical analysis iteration by using the analytic model; and a diagnostic layer to diagnose an abnormality condition of numerical analysis by comparing the analytic data and predictive data during the numerical analysis iteration performed by the analytic layer. The diagnostic layer includes an early alarm to generate early alarm information by sorting a cell satisfying an early alarm condition; and an abnormality diagnostic device to determine whether the numerical analysis iteration is abnormal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for diagnosing analysis, comprising: an analytic layer configured to divide a peripheral space of a design target component into a plurality of cells, and to derive analytic data by performing a numerical analysis iteration according to computational fluid dynamics for the plurality of cells; a model layer configured to derive an analytic model that simulates the numerical analysis iteration; a predictive layer configured to derive predictive data by predicting a result of the numerical analysis iteration by using the analytic model; and a diagnostic layer configured to diagnose an abnormality condition of numerical analysis by comparing the analytic data with the predictive data during the numerical analysis iteration performed by the analytic layer.
2. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic layer comprises an early alarm configured to generate early alarm information by sorting a cell that satisfies a predetermined early alarm condition among the plurality of cells; and an abnormality diagnostic device configured to determine whether the result of the numerical analysis iteration is abnormal based on the early alarm information.
3. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 2, wherein the early alarm comprises a residual generator configured to derive residual data by obtaining a difference between the analytic data and the predictive data; and an alarm information device configured to generate the early alarm information by sorting a cell in which at least one of the analytic data, the predictive data, and the residual data satisfies the predetermined early alarm condition among the plurality of cells.
4. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 3, wherein the abnormality diagnostic device transmits an analysis interrupt command to the analytic layer so that the analytic layer interrupts the numerical analysis iteration, when satisfying a predetermined abnormality condition by determining whether at least one of the plurality of cells, a plurality of cell groups, and all of the cells of the plurality of cells satisfies the predetermined abnormality condition based on the early alarm information.
5. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 1, wherein the model layer comprises an analytic data storage configured to store the analytic data comprising a plurality of input signals used for the numerical analysis and a plurality of output signals corresponding to each of the plurality of input signals; and an analytic model deriver configured to generate the analytic model that simulates the numerical analysis iteration through the analytic data.
6. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 5, wherein the analytic model deriver constitutes the relationship equation of the analytic model in which a parameter is not determined, and generates the analytic model by deriving the parameter through learning using the analytic data.
7. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 6, wherein the model layer further comprises a preprocessor configured to perform preprocessing that corrects or removes the analytic data according to a predetermined condition.
8. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 7, wherein the model layer further comprises a data analyzer configured to derive the relationship between cells of the plurality of cells and the relationship between data in the cells by analyzing the preprocessed analytic data.
9. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 1, wherein the predictive layer comprises a numerical analyzer configured to derive base data by performing the numerical analysis iteration for the plurality of cells occupying the divided peripheral space of the design target component; and a predictor configured to derive the predictive data by applying the base data to the analytic model derived by the model layer to predict the result of the numerical analysis iteration.
10. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 9, wherein the predictive layer further comprises a predictive optimizer configured to optimize the predictive data derived by the predictor.
11. An apparatus for diagnosing analysis, comprising: an analytic layer configured to divide a peripheral space of a design target component into a plurality of cells, and to derive analytic data by performing numerical analysis iteration according to computational fluid dynamics for the plurality of cells; a predictive layer configured to derive predictive data by predicting a result of the numerical analysis iteration by using the analytic model that predicts the result of the numerical analysis iteration; and a diagnostic layer configured to diagnose an abnormality condition of numerical analysis by comparing the analytic data with the predictive data during the numerical analysis iteration performed by the analytic layer.
12. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 11, wherein the analytic model comprises at least one of a parametric model and a non-parametric model, and wherein the parametric model comprises a Transfer Function model and a State Space model.
13. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 11, wherein the analytic model includes one of a model for simulating the numerical analysis iteration for each of the plurality of cells; a model for simulating the numerical analysis iteration for a cell group comprising a predetermined number of cells adjacent to each other; a model for simulating the numerical analysis iteration for a cell group comprising cells having characteristics similar to each other; and a model for simulating the numerical analysis iteration for all of the plurality of cells.
14. The apparatus for diagnosing the analysis of claim 11, wherein the diagnostic layer comprises an early alarm configured to generate early alarm information by sorting a cell that satisfies a predetermined early alarm condition among the plurality of cells; and an abnormality diagnostic device configured to determine whether the result of the numerical analysis iteration is abnormal based on the early alarm information.
15. A method for diagnosing analysis, comprising: dividing, by a model layer, a peripheral space of a design target component into a plurality of cells; deriving, by the model layer, an analytic model that simulates numerical analysis iteration according to computational fluid dynamics for the plurality of cells; deriving, by an analytic layer, analytic data by performing the numerical analysis iteration; deriving, by a predictive layer, predictive data by predicting a result of the numerical analysis iteration by using the analytic model; and diagnosing, by a diagnostic layer, an abnormality condition of numerical analysis by comparing the analytic data with the predictive data during the numerical analysis iteration performed by the analytic layer.
16. The method for diagnosing the analysis of claim 15, wherein the diagnosing the abnormality condition of the numerical analysis comprises generating, by an early alarm of the diagnostic layer, early alarm information by sorting a cell that satisfies a predetermined early alarm condition among the plurality of cells; and determining, by an abnormality diagnostic device of the diagnostic layer, whether the result of the numerical analysis iteration is abnormal based on the early alarm information.
17. The method for diagnosing the analysis of claim 16, wherein the generating the early alarm information comprises deriving, by a residual generator of the early alarm, residual data by obtaining a difference between the analytic data and the predictive data; and generating, by an alarm information device of the early alarm, the early alarm information by sorting a cell in which at least one of the analytic data, the predictive data, and the residual data satisfies the predetermined early alarm condition among the plurality of cells.
18. The method for diagnosing the analysis of claim 17, wherein the determining whether the result of the numerical analysis iteration is abnormal comprises transmitting, by the abnormality diagnostic device, an analysis interrupt command to the analytic layer so that the analytic layer interrupts the numerical analysis iteration, when satisfying a predetermined abnormality condition by determining whether at least one of a plurality of cells, a plurality of cell groups, and all of the cells satisfies the predetermined abnormality condition based on the early alarm information.
19. The method for diagnosing the analysis of claim 15, wherein the deriving the analytic model comprises generating, by the model layer, the analytic model that simulates the numerical analysis iteration through the analytic data comprising a plurality of input signals used for the numerical analysis iteration and a plurality of output signals corresponding to each of the plurality of input signals.
20. The method for diagnosing the analysis of claim 15, wherein the deriving the predictive data comprises deriving, by a numerical analyzer of the predictive layer, base data by performing the numerical analysis iteration for the plurality of cells occupying the divided peripheral space of the design target component; and deriving, by a predictor of the predictive layer, the predictive data by applying the base data to the analytic model derived by the model layer to predict the result of the numerical analysis iteration.
</claims>
</document>
