<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALAM, NEBULA
CHAKRAVORTY, RAJIB
GHAHREMANLOU, LIDA
ORTIZ, JORGE ANDRES MOROS
PALANI, DHEERENDER VELU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59788582
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERSONALITY BASED SENTIMENT ANALYSIS OF TEXTUAL INFORMATION WRITTEN IN NATURAL LANGUAGE
</title>

<abstract>
A sentiment analyzer obtains natural language media input and determines sentiment of the natural language media input. A personality analyzer obtains data indicative of a personality of an originator of the natural language media input and determines a personality metric of the originator of the natural language media input. The sentiment of the natural language media input and the personality metric of the originator of the natural language media input are combined to obtain a personality-based sentiment of the natural language media input. The natural language media input is provided to a receiver together with a representation of the personality-based sentiment of the natural language media input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing to a receiver an ordered listing of a plurality of natural language media inputs together with representations of personality-based sentiments of said natural language media inputs, said method comprising: obtaining, at a sentiment analyzer implemented by a processor of a computer, said natural language media inputs; determining, by said sentiment analyzer using natural language processing on content of each of said natural language media inputs, a sentiment for said each of said natural language media inputs; obtaining, at a personality analyzer implemented by said processor, data distinct from said content of said natural language media inputs and indicative of a personality of an originator of said each of said natural language media inputs; determining, by said personality analyzer using linguistic analytics on said data, a personality metric of said originator of said each of said natural language media inputs; obtaining a personality-based sentiment for said each of said natural language media inputs by said processor combining said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input; ordering said natural language media inputs into a listing arranged according to said personality-based sentiments of said natural language media inputs; and providing said ordered listing of natural language media inputs to said receiver, by said processor via a display of said computer, together with said representations of said personality-based sentiments of said natural language media inputs.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting, from said each of said natural language media inputs, an identifier of said originator of said natural language media input; and locating in a social media feed said data indicative of said personality of said originator of said natural language media input on the basis of said identifier.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein, in said step of obtaining said natural language media input, said natural language media input comprises an e-mail.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein, in said step of obtaining said natural language media input, said natural language media input comprises a user forum entry.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein, in said step of obtaining said natural language media input, said natural language media input comprises audiovisual input.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein, in said step of obtaining said data indicative of said personality of said originator of said natural language media input, said data indicative of said personality of said originator of said natural language media input comprises a social media post.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeating said steps of obtaining said natural language media input, determining said sentiment of said natural language media input, obtaining said data indicative of said personality of said originator of said natural language media input, determining said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input, combining said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input to obtain said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, and providing said natural language media input to said receiver together with said representation of said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, for a plurality of additional natural language media inputs of a plurality of additional originators; and prioritizing responses to said natural language media input and said plurality of additional natural language media inputs on the basis of said representation of said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input and said plurality of additional natural language media inputs.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said representation of said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input comprises one of a very tense emoticon, a more tense emoticon, a tense emoticon, a neutral emoticon, a happy emoticon, and a very happy emoticon.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said combining of said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input, to obtain said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, comprises calculating a weighted average of said sentiment of said natural language media input and a positive attitude component of said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said combining of said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input, to obtain said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, comprises applying machine learning.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said combining of said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input, to obtain said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, comprises assigning a score to said sentiment of said natural language media modulated by a positive attitude component of said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeating said steps of obtaining said natural language media input, determining said sentiment of said natural language media input, obtaining said data indicative of said personality of said originator of said natural language media input, determining said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input, and combining said sentiment of said natural language media input and said personality metric of said originator of said natural language media input to obtain said personality-based sentiment of said natural language media input, for a plurality of additional times; and identifying at least one of a trend in said personality-based sentiment and an abrupt change in said personality-based sentiment.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying a cause of at least one of said trend in said personality-based sentiment and said abrupt change in said personality-based sentiment by natural language analysis of more than one of said natural language media inputs that are associated with said originator.
</claims>
</document>
