<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L17/00,G10L17/06,H04L29/08,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARG, PARAG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68693452
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING SAFETY CONCERNS VIA SUBSCRIBER SAFETY CONTROL (SSC) SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described that facilitate analyzing real-time communication sessions between a client device of a client account and a third-party device for the purpose of detecting safety concerns that may impact a client associated with the client device. The real-time communication sessions may include voice or text communications provisioned by a telecommunication service provider. In response to detecting a safety concern, notification data may be sent to a trusted device associated with the client account that alerts a trusted person of the inferred safety concern. In some examples, a safety concern may be inferred based on an irregular performance or non-performance of a regularly conducted real-time communication session. Moreover, communication session modification data may be sent to a client device involved in the real-time communication session for the purpose of terminating the real-time communication session based at least in part on safety concerns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions, that when executed on one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: analyzing a client data model to infer that a regularly conducted communication session is to be performed via a client device associated with a client account; monitoring the client device to identify performance indicators associated with an occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session; inferring whether the regularly conducted communication session occurred, based at least in part on the performance indicators; generating a subscriber safety score that is associated with the client device, based at least in part on the performance indicators and the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session; and transmitting notification data to a trusted device associated with the client account, based at least in part on the subscriber safety score.
2. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: retrieving, from a data store, historical instances of regularly conducted communication sessions performed via the client device; and generating the client data model that is associated with the client device, based at least in part on the historical instances of regularly conducted communication sessions, the client data model providing a baseline of nominal, non-threatening communication sessions.
3. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: identifying performance indicators associated with the client device, based at least in part on the client data model.
4. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the performance indicators include an indication of an irregular performance of the regularly conducted communication session, the irregular performance being based at least in part on a time of day, a day of week, or a duration of the regularly conducted communication session.
5. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the performance indicators include an indication of a non-performance of the regularly conducted communication session.
6. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, wherein the performance indicators include an indication of a geolocation associated with the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session.
7. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: inferring the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session based at least in part on one of a time of day, day of week, or a geographic location of the client device.
8. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: retrieving from the client device, sensor data associated with environmental conditions that surround the client device, and wherein, the performance indicators are further based at least in part on an indication of ambient conditions associated with the regularly conducted communication session, the ambient conditions including one or more of an ambient noise, an ambient temperature, or an ambient humidity.
9. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: generating client profile data associated with the client account, the client profile data including a voice biometric template of a client associated with the client account, and wherein, the performance indicators are further based at least in part on the voice biometric template.
10. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: determining that the subscriber safety score is greater than a predetermined safety threshold, and wherein, the notification data includes computer-executable instructions that present an alert on a display of the trusted device, the alert indicating that a safety concern associated with the client device.
11. A computer-implemented method, comprising: under control of one or more processors: retrieving, from a data store, client profile data associated with a client account, the client profile data being further associated with a client device; identifying performance indicators associated with regularly conducted communication sessions, based at least in part on the client profile data; inferring whether the performance indicators indicate an occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session; generating a subscriber safety score that is associated with the client device, based at least in part on the performance indicators; and in response to the subscriber safety score being greater than a predetermined safety threshold, transmitting notification data to a trusted device associated with the client account.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: retrieving, from a data store, one or more historical communication sessions conducted by the client device over a predetermined time interval; and generating the client profile data based at least in part on historical session metadata associated with the one or more historical communication sessions, the historical session metadata including an indication of a time of day, a day of week, or a geolocation of the client device when the historical communication sessions occurred.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: generating a client data model, based at least in part on the client profile data, the client data model providing a baseline of nominal, non-threatening communication sessions, wherein, inferring whether the performance indicators indicate the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session is based at least in part on analysis of the client data model.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the performance indicators include an indication of an irregular performance of the regularly conducted communication session, the irregular performance being based at least in part on a time of day, a day of week, or a duration of the regularly conducted communication session.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein inferring the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session based at least in part on one of a time of day, day of week, or a geographic location of the client device.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: generating computer-executable instructions that present an alert on a display of the trusted device, the alert indicating that a safety concern associated with the client device, and wherein, the notification data includes the computer-executable instructions.
17. A system, comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to the one or more processors, the memory including one or more modules that are executable by the one or more processors to: analyze client profile data to infer whether a regularly conducted communication session is to be performed via a client device associated with a client account; monitor the client device to identify performance indicators associated with an occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session; generate a subscriber safety score that is associated with the client device, based at least in part on the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session; and transmit notification data to a trusted device associated with the client account, based at least in part on the subscriber safety score being greater than a predetermined safety threshold.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more modules are further executable by the one or more processors to: generate client data model that is associated with the client device, based at least in part on the client profile data, the client profile data including historical instances of regularly conducted communication sessions; analyze the client data model to identify the performance indicators associated with the occurrence of the regularly conducted communion session; and infer the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session based at least in part on analysis of the client data model.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the performance indicators an indication of an irregular performance of the regularly conducted communication session, the irregular performance being based at least in part on a time of day, a day of week, or a duration of the regularly conducted communication session.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the performance indicators include at least one of a first indication of a non-performance of the regularly conducted communication session, or a second indication a geolocation associated with the occurrence of the regularly conducted communication session.
</claims>
</document>
