<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMDEN TOWN TECHNOLOGIES PRIVATE LIMITED
</assignee>

<inventors>
Raj, Mikhil
Varshney, Karan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72749255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION OF DIGITAL DOCUMENT FROM ANALOG DOCUMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Generation of a digital document from an analog document is provided. The document generation includes obtaining a user image of a user-filled document. A first set of key points and a second set of key points are extracted from a template image and the user image, respectively. Probabilistic matching of the first set of key points and the second set of key points is performed to determine a transformation. An inverse transformation is performed on the transformation to transform back one or more areas of interest into an image-space of the template image. A mask is generated for the one or more areas of interest in the user image. The mask is further merged onto a corresponding area of the template image to generate the digital document.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A document generation method, comprising: receiving, by a computing server, a user image of a user-filled document from a user-computing device via a communication network; extracting, by the computing server, a first set of key points from a template image, and a second set of key points from the user image; determining, by the computing server, a transformation that maps each pixel coordinate of the template image to a pixel coordinate of the user image when a matching between the first set of key points and the second set of key points is greater than a threshold value, wherein the transformation is indicative of one or more locations of one or more areas of interest in the user image; masking, by the computing server, each area of interest to generate a mask including at least foreground information of each area of interest; and generating, by the computing server, a user document by merging the mask of each area of interest of the user image onto a corresponding area of the template image.
2. The document generation method of claim 1, wherein the user image is generated based on capturing of the user-filled document by the user-computing device, wherein the user-filled document is an updated copy of the template image, and wherein the template image is updated by a user by incorporating analog content in one or more areas of the template image.
3. The document generation method of claim 1, further comprising extracting, by the computing server, a first set of descriptors of the first set of key points from the template image, and a second set of descriptors of the second set of key points from the user image, wherein the first set of key points and the second set of key points are associated with one or more pixels in the template image and the user image, respectively, and wherein each descriptor in the first set of descriptors and the second set of descriptors corresponds to a location of a pixel in the template image and the user image, respectively.
4. The document generation method of claim 3, wherein the matching of the first set of key points and the second set of key points is executed based on the first set of descriptors and the second set of descriptors, and wherein the matching is executed to obtain one-to-one mapping between a first subset of the first set of key points and a second subset of the second set of key points.
5. The document generation method of claim 1, further comprising executing, by the computing server, an inverse transformation of the determined transformation based on the one or more areas of interest.
6. The document generation method of claim 5, wherein the inverse transformation is executed by transforming back the one or more areas of interest into an image-space of the template image.
7. The document generation method of claim 6, wherein the inverse transformation includes at least correcting orientation, rotation, and perspective of the one or more areas of interest.
8. The document generation method of claim 1, wherein the mask of an area of interest includes one or more specific portions of the area of interest, wherein the one or more specific portions include at least the foreground information, and wherein a combined shape and size of the one or more specific portions is less than an actual shape and size of the area of interest.
9. The document generation method of claim 8, further comprising generating, by the computing server, one or more contours based on at least the foreground information of the area of interest to obtain the one or more specific portions of the area of interest in the user image.
10. The document generation method of claim 1, wherein the mask of an area of interest includes one or more specific pixels of the area of interest, and wherein the one or more specific pixels include at least the foreground information.
11. The document generation method of claim 1, wherein the foreground information of each area of interest includes analog content incorporated by a user.
12. A document generation system, comprising: a computing server comprising circuitry configured to: receive a user image of a user-filled document from a user-computing device via a communication network; extract a first set of key points from a template image, and a second set of key points from the user image; determine a transformation that maps each pixel coordinate of the template image to a pixel coordinate of the user image when a match between the first set of key points and the second set of key points is greater than a threshold value, wherein the transformation is indicative of one or more locations of one or more areas of interest in the user image; mask each area of interest to generate a mask including at least foreground information of each area of interest; and generate a user document by a merge of the mask of each area of interest of the user image onto a corresponding area of the template image.
13. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the user image is generated based on capture of the user-filled document by the user-computing device, wherein the user-filled document is an updated copy of the template image, and wherein the template image is updated by a user by incorporating analog content in one or more areas of the template image.
14. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the circuitry is further configured to extract a first set of descriptors of the first set of key points from the template image, and a second set of descriptors of the second set of key points from the user image, wherein the first set of key points and the second set of key points are associated with one or more pixels in the template image and the user image, respectively, and wherein each descriptor in the first set of descriptors and the second set of descriptors corresponds to a location of a pixel in the template image and the user image, respectively.
15. The document generation system of claim 14, wherein the circuitry is further configured to execute the match of the first set of key points and the second set of key points based on the first set of descriptors and the second set of descriptors, and wherein the match is executed to obtain one-to-one mapping between a first subset of the first set of key points and a second subset of the second set of key points.
16. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the circuitry is further configured to execute an inverse transformation of the determined transformation based on the one or more areas of interest.
17. The document generation system of claim 16, wherein the inverse transformation is executed by transformation back the one or more areas of interest into an image-space of the template image, and wherein the inverse transformation includes at least correction of orientation, rotation, and perspective of the one or more areas of interest.
18. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the mask of an area of interest includes one or more specific portions of the area of interest, wherein the one or more specific portions include at least the foreground information, and wherein a combined shape and size of the one or more specific portions is less than an actual shape and size of the area of interest.
19. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the mask of an area of interest includes one or more specific pixels of the area of interest, and wherein the one or more specific pixels include at least the foreground information.
20. The document generation system of claim 12, wherein the foreground information of each area of interest includes analog content incorporated by a user.
</claims>
</document>
