<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TOKYO
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARADA, TATSUYA
TOKOZUME, YUJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65040254
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Learning Method, Learning Program, Learning Device, and Learning System
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a learning method, a learning program, a learning device, and a learning system, for training a classification model, to further raise the correct answer rate of classification by the classification model. The learning method includes execution of generating one piece of composite data by compositing a plurality of pieces of training data of which classification has each been set, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, at a predetermined ratio, inputting one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into the classification model, and updating a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model, by a computer provided with at least one hardware processor and at least one memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning method, comprising: execution, performed by a computer provided with at least one hardware processor and at least one memory, of generating one piece of composite data by compositing a plurality of pieces of training data of which classification has each been set, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, at predetermined ratio, inputting one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into a classification model, and updating a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model.
2. The learning method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining the predetermined ratio before executing generating of the composite data.
3. The learning method according to claim 2, wherein determining the predetermined ratio includes randomly selecting one numeric value from a predetermined numeric value range, and determining the predetermined ratio on the basis of the selected numeric value.
4. The learning method of claim 2, wherein determining the predetermined ratio is performed each time generating of the composite data is executed.
5. The learning method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting the plurality of pieces of training data from an initial dataset before executing generating of the composite data.
6. The learning method according to claim 5, wherein selecting the plurality of pieces of training data includes randomly selecting data from the initial dataset.
7. The learning method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the plurality of pieces of converted data by converting the plurality of pieces of training data before executing generating the composite data.
8. The learning method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of training data is a plurality of pieces of sound data, and generating the composite data includes generating one piece of composite sound data by overlaying the plurality of pieces of sound data at the predetermined ratio.
9. The learning method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of training data is a plurality of pieces of image data, and generating the composite data includes generating one piece of composite image data by adding pixel values at the predetermined ratio, for each pixel of the plurality of pieces of image data.
10. The learning method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pieces of training data is a plurality of pieces of text data, and generating the composite data includes converting the plurality of pieces of text data into a plurality of pieces of vector data, and generating one piece of composite vector data by adding the plurality of pieces of vector data at the predetermined ratio.
11. A learning method, comprising: execution, by a computer provided with at least one hardware processor and at least one memory, of inputting a plurality of pieces of training data of which classification has each been set, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, into a classification model, and obtaining a plurality of intermediate outputs of the classification model, generating one piece of composite data by compositing the plurality of intermediate outputs at a predetermined ratio, inputting one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into a subsequent stage of the configuration of the classification model that has output the intermediate outputs, and updating a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model, by a computer provided with at least one hardware processor and at least one memory.
12. A non-transitory recording medium recording computer readable instructions, when executed by a computer provided with at least one hardware processor and at least one memory to execute generating one piece of composite data by compositing a plurality of pieces of training data of which classification has each been set, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, at a predetermined ratio, inputting one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into a classification model, and updating a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model.
13. A learning device, comprising: a generating unit that generates one piece of composite data by compositing a plurality of pieces of training data of which classification has each been set, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, at a predetermined ratio; an introducing unit that inputs one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into a classification model; and an updating unit that updates a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model.
14. A learning system, comprising: a database that stores an initial dataset of which classification has each been set; a classification model that outputs classification of input data; and a learning device including a generating unit that generates one piece of composite data by compositing a plurality of pieces of training data selected from the initial dataset, or a plurality of pieces of converted data obtained by converting the plurality of pieces of training data, at a predetermined ratio, an introducing unit that inputs one or a plurality of pieces of the composite data into the classification model, and an updating unit that updates a parameter of the classification model so that classification of the plurality of pieces of training data included in the composite data is replicated at the predetermined ratio by output of the classification model.
</claims>
</document>
