<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06T7/00,G06T7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUNJI DAISUKE
HIRAISHI TOMONOBU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, METHOD OF PROCESSING IMAGE, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
At least one processor of an apparatus functions as a generation unit that identifies at least an outer edge of a specific region in a surface layer of an object and that generates outer edge candidates, and a control unit that selects an outer edge candidate based on an instruction from a user among the generated outer edge candidates.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor configured to perform operations as: a generation unit that identifies at least an outer edge of a specific region in a surface layer of an object from an image of the object and that generates outer edge candidates; and a control unit that selects an outer edge candidate based on an instruction from a user among the generated outer edge candidates.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit saves, in a storage medium, information about a shape of the selected outer edge candidate and an image of the specific region depending on the selected outer edge candidate.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit identifies status regions included in the specific region and generates the outer edge candidates for the respective status regions.
4. The apparatus according to of claim 3, wherein the control unit causes a display device to display an image that is obtained by superimposing the outer edge candidates for the respective status regions on an image of the specific region, and selects an outer edge candidate based on the instruction from the user from the obtained image.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the control unit causes the display device to display an image that is obtained by superimposing at least one outer edge candidate among the outer edge candidates on the specific region.
6. The apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the control unit causes the display device to display an image that is obtained by superimposing an outer edge candidate corresponding to at least one status region among the outer edge candidates for the respective status regions on the specific region.
7. The apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the generation unit classifies the specific region into classes for the respective status regions, and wherein the control unit selects an outer edge candidate corresponding to a class that is instructed by the user.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit identifies the outer edge of the specific region based on learning data in learning of a result of selection of the outer edge candidate.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region and generates the outer edge candidates regarding the image of the object imaged based on a position that is designated by the user, and wherein the control unit selects the outer edge candidate based on the designated position among the generated outer edge candidates.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region from a region in which a feature that is same as or approximates to a feature of an image at the designated position is continuous.
11. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the generation unit excludes, from candidate regions to be identified as the specific region, a candidate region having a feature that differs from the feature of the image at the designated position among candidate regions that are presumed to correspond to the specific region based on the designated position.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the generation unit identifies, as the specific region, a candidate region having highest reliability of a degree of certainty that the candidate region corresponds to the specific region among remaining candidate regions other than the excluded candidate region.
13. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the generation unit selects a candidate region having a feature that differs from the feature of the image at the designated position among candidate regions that are presumed to correspond to the specific region based on the designated position and reduces reliability of a degree of certainty that the candidate region corresponds to the specific region.
14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region and generates the outer edge candidates regarding the image of the object based on a region that is designated by the user, and wherein the control unit selects the outer edge candidate based on the designated region among the generated outer edge candidates.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region based on a region that is designated by defining a closed curve by the user.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region based on a size of a portion that overlaps the region in which the user defines the closed curve.
17. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the generation unit excludes, from candidate regions to be identified as the specific region, a candidate region having a portion that overlaps the region in which the user defines the closed curve and that has a size smaller than a threshold among candidate regions that are presumed to correspond to the specific region based on the region in which the user defines the closed curve.
18. The apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the generation unit identifies, as the specific region, a candidate region having a portion that overlaps the region in which the user defines the closed curve and that has a maximum size among remaining candidate regions other than the excluded candidate region.
19. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the generation unit reduces reliability of a degree of certainty that candidate regions that are presumed to correspond to the specific region based on the region in which the user defines the closed curve correspond to the specific region, and an amount of the reduction increases as a size of a portion that overlaps the defined region decreases.
20. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit causes a display device to display a preview image in which the outer edge candidates are superimposed on the specific region, and wherein the generation unit identifies the specific region and generates the outer edge candidates regarding a still image that is obtained while the preview image is displayed.
21. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit obtains information for use in evaluation of the specific region based on information about an external shape of the selected outer edge candidate.
22. The apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the specific region is an injury region in the surface layer of the object, and wherein the control unit obtains information for use in evaluation of a size of an external shape of the injury region.
23. The apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the injury region is an affected region of an injury that occurs in a surface layer of a skin.
24. A method comprising: generating outer edge candidates by identifying at least an outer edge of a specific region in a surface layer of an object from an image of the object; and selecting an outer edge candidate based on an instruction from a user among the generated outer edge candidates.
25. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing a program of instruction for causing a computer to perform a method comprising: generating outer edge candidates by identifying at least an outer edge of a specific region in a surface layer of an object; and selecting an outer edge candidate based on an instruction from a user among the generated outer edge candidates.
</claims>
</document>
