<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCGREW, DAVID
REHAK, MARTIN
ANDERSON, BLAKE HARRELL
DUNLOP, SCOTT WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67480329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENDPOINT-ASSISTED INSPECTION OF ENCRYPTED NETWORK TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a traffic inspection service executed by an intermediary device obtains, from a monitoring agent executed by an endpoint device, keying information for an encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and a remote entity. The traffic inspection service provides a notification to the monitoring agent that acknowledges receipt of the keying information. The traffic inspection service uses the keying information to decrypt encrypted traffic from the encrypted traffic session. The traffic inspection service applies a policy to the encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and the remote entity, based on the decrypted traffic from the session.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a traffic inspection service executed by an intermediary device and from a monitoring agent executed by an endpoint device, keying information for an encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and a remote entity; providing, by the traffic inspection service, a notification to the monitoring agent that acknowledges receipt of the keying information; using, by the traffic inspection service, the keying information to decrypt encrypted traffic from the encrypted traffic session; and applying, by the traffic inspection service, a policy to the encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and the remote entity, based on the decrypted traffic from the session.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the encrypted traffic session is a Transport Layer Security (TLS) session.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the traffic inspection service is a firewall or intrusion detection system.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the decrypted traffic comprises a file, wherein the policy is a data privacy policy, and wherein applying the policy to the traffic session comprises: blocking, by the traffic inspection service, the traffic session from delivering the encrypted traffic to the remote entity.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: blocking, by the traffic inspection service, all encrypted traffic associated with the endpoint device for which the traffic inspection service did not receive keying information from the monitoring agent.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein the monitoring agent provides the keying information based on a determination that a process tree on the endpoint device associated with the traffic session is untrusted.
7. A method comprising: detecting, by a monitoring agent of a device, a handshake between the device and a remote entity to form an encrypted traffic session; capturing, by the monitoring agent, keying information for the session from the handshake; providing, by the monitoring agent, the captured keying information to a traffic inspection service, wherein the traffic inspection service uses the keying information to decrypt encrypted traffic from the encrypted traffic session and applies a policy to the traffic session based on the decrypted traffic; and delaying, by the monitoring agent, providing of the encrypted traffic from the device to the remote entity, until the traffic inspection service acknowledges receipt of the provided keying information.
8. The method as in claim 7, wherein the encrypted traffic session is a Transport Layer Security (TLS) session.
9. The method as in claim 7, wherein the traffic inspection service is a firewall or intrusion detection system.
10. The method as in claim 7, wherein the decrypted traffic comprises a file, wherein the policy is a data privacy policy, and wherein applying the policy to the traffic session comprises blocking the traffic session.
11. The method as in claim 7, further comprising: determining, by the monitoring agent, that a process tree on the device associated with the traffic session is untrusted, wherein the monitoring agent provides the keying information for the session to the traffic inspection service based on the determination that the process tree associated with the traffic session is untrusted.
12. The method as in claim 7, further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring agent, an acknowledgement from the traffic inspection service that acknowledges receipt of the keying information.
13. The method as in claim 7, wherein capturing the keying information for the session from the handshake comprises: capturing, by the monitoring agent, the keying information from a memory space of a process of the device that is associated with the handshake.
14. The method as in claim 7, further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring agent, data from the traffic inspection service that causes the monitoring agent to capture the keying information.
15. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: obtain, from a monitoring agent executed by an endpoint device, keying information for an encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and a remote entity; provide a notification to the monitoring agent that acknowledges receipt of the keying information; use the keying information to decrypt encrypted traffic from the encrypted traffic session; and apply a policy to the encrypted traffic session between the endpoint device and the remote entity, based on the decrypted traffic from the session.
16. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the encrypted traffic session is a Transport Layer Security (TLS) session.
17. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the apparatus comprises a firewall or intrusion detection system.
18. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the monitoring agent delays providing traffic of the encrypted traffic session until the endpoint device obtains the notification that acknowledges receipt of the keying information.
19. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the monitoring agent provides the keying information based on a determination that a process tree on the endpoint device associated with the traffic session is untrusted.
20. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the apparatus is located at an edge of a local network that includes the endpoint device.
</claims>
</document>
