<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63G31/16,G03H1/22,H04N13/368,H04N13/383
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIGHT FIELD LAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEVENSEE, BRENDAN ELWOOD
KARAFIN, JONATHAN SEAN
Dohm, John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69181945
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Light field display system based amusement park attraction
</title>

<abstract>
A light filed (LF) display system for displaying holographic content to viewers in an amusement park (e.g., as part of an amusement park ride). The LF display system in an amusement park includes LF display modules tiled together to form an array of LF modules. In some embodiments, the LF display system includes a tracking system and/or a viewer profiling module. The tracking system and viewer profiling module can monitor and store characteristics of viewers on the amusement park ride, a viewer profile describing a viewer, and/or responses of viewers to the holographic content during the amusement park ride. The holographic content created for display on an amusement park ride can be based on any of the monitored or stored information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-69. (canceled)
70. A light field (LF) display system comprising: a controller configured to generate holographic content; a LF display assembly comprising one or more LF display modules that are configured to present the holographic content in a holographic object volume to one or more viewers located in a viewing volume of the one or more LF display modules of an amusement park ride; a tracking system comprising one or more tracking devices configured to obtain information about the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and wherein the controller is configured to generate holographic content for the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride based in part on the information obtained by the tracking system.
71. The LF display system of claim 70, wherein the information obtained by the tracking system includes any of a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, an age of the viewer, a gender of the viewer, and identification of a piece of a garment worn by the viewer.
72. The LF display system of claim 70, wherein the controller is configured to use the information obtained by the tracking system and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
73. The LF display system of claim 70, further comprising: a viewer profiling module configured to: access the information obtained by the tracking system; process the information to identify a viewer of the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and generate a viewer profile for the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the viewer based in part on the viewer profile.
74. The LF display system of claim 73, wherein the controller is configured to use the viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
75. The LF display system of claim 73, wherein the viewer profiling module is further configured to: update the viewer profile using information from a social media account of the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content based in part on the updated viewer profile.
76. The LF display system of claim 75, wherein the controller is configured to use the updated viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
77. The LF display system of claim 70, further comprising: a viewer profiling module configured to: access the information obtained by the tracking system; process the information to identify the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and generate an aggregate viewer profile for the one or more viewers; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the one or more viewers based in part on the aggregate viewer profile.
78. The LF display system of claim 77, wherein the viewer profiling module is further configured to: update the aggregate viewer profile using information from at least one or more social media accounts of the one or more viewers; and wherein the controller is configured to generate holographic content based in part on the updated aggregate viewer profile.
79. The LF display system of claim 70, further comprising: a user station configured to be occupied by the viewer and to move relative to the one or more LF display modules, and wherein the controller is configured to generate holographic content based in part on relative movement between the user station and one or more LF display modules.
80. The LF display system of claim 79, wherein the user station is configured to move and the one or more LF display modules are stationary.
81. The LF display system of claim 80, wherein the user station includes at least one of a motor-controlled chair, a motor-controlled bench, a motor-controlled stool, a motor-controlled cart, a carriage, a vehicle, a motor-controlled floor, or a motor-controlled platform.
82. The LF display system of claim 79, wherein the one or more LF display modules are configured to move and the user station is stationary.
83. The LF display system of claim 70, wherein the presented holographic content of the amusement park ride includes a holographic character.
84. The LF display system of claim 83, further comprising: a sensory feedback system comprising at least one sensory feedback device that is configured to provide sensory feedback as the holographic character is presented.
85. The LF display system of claim 84, wherein the sensory feedback includes tactile feedback, audio feedback, aroma feedback, temperature feedback, or any combination thereof.
86. The LF display system of claim 85, wherein the tactile feedback is configured to provide a tactile surface coincident with a surface of the holographic character that the one or more viewers may interact with via touch.
87. The LF display system of claim 83, further comprising: a tracking system comprising one or more tracking devices configured to obtain information about the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic character for the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride based on the information obtained by the tracking system.
88. The LF display system of claim 87, wherein the information obtained by the tracking system includes any of: a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, a gaze of the viewer, an age of a viewer, a gender of the viewer, an identification of a piece of a garment worn by the viewer, and an auditory feedback of the viewer.
89. The LF display system of claim 87, wherein the tracked information of the viewer includes the gaze of the viewer, and wherein the LF display assembly is configured to update eyes of the holographic character to maintain eye-contact with the gaze of the viewer.
90. The LF display system of claim 87, wherein the one or more viewers include a first viewer and a second viewer and the tracked response includes the gaze of the first viewer and the second viewer, and wherein the LF display assembly is configured to update eyes of the holographic character to alternate directing eye-contact between the first viewer and the second viewer.
91. The LF display system of claim 87, wherein the controller is configured to use the information obtained by the tracking system and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic character.
92. The LF display system of claim 87, further comprising: a viewer profiling module configured to: access the information obtained by the tracking system; process the information to identify a viewer of the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and generate a viewer profile for the viewer, and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic character for the viewer based in part on the viewer profile.
93. The LF display system of claim 92, wherein the controller is configured to use the viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic character.
94. The LF display system of claim 92, wherein the viewer profiling module is further configured to: update the viewer profile using information from a social media account of the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic character based in part on the updated viewer profile.
95. The LF display system of claim 94, wherein the controller is configured to use the updated viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic character.
96. A light field (LF) display system comprising: a controller configured to generate holographic content; a LF display assembly comprising one or more LF display modules that are configured to present the holographic content in a holographic object volume to one or more viewers located in a viewing volume of the one or more LF display modules of an amusement park ride; and an enclosure with at least one LF display surface formed by a plurality of LF display modules, the plurality of LF display modules including at least one of the one or more LF display modules, wherein the plurality of LF display modules are tiled together to form a seamless surface environment, and wherein the enclosure encloses the viewing volume for presenting holographic content to the one or more viewers.
97. The LF display system of claim 96, wherein the plurality of LF display modules are coincident to a wall, a floor, a ceiling, or some combination thereof.
98. The LF display system of claim 96, wherein the holographic object volume extends behind a plane of the at least one LF display surface such that holographic content creates a simulated environment larger than the enclosure.
99. The LF display system of claim 96, wherein the enclosure comprises: a user station that is configured to be occupied by the one or more viewers, wherein the user station includes at least one of a chair, a bench, a stool, a cart, a carriage, a vehicle, a standing console, or some combination thereof; and a dashboard display surface of the user station, the dashboard display surface comprising a LF display assembly, wherein the LF display assembly presents at least one holographic object selected from the holographic content consisting of: a two-dimensional object, a three-dimensional object, a control button, a control switch, a control dial, a steering control interface, an instrument cluster, a volume control interface, a computer interface, a shifter, some other control interface, or some combination thereof.
100. The LF display system of claim 96, further comprising: a sensory feedback system comprising at least one sensory feedback device that is configured to provide sensory feedback as the holographic content is presented, wherein the LF display assembly is further configured to generate a tactile surface in a local area of the LF display assembly.
101. The LF display system of claim 100, wherein the tactile surface is coincident with a surface of at least one of the one or more holographic objects.
102. The LF display system of claim 96, further comprising: a tracking system comprising one or more tracking devices configured to obtain information about the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride based on the information obtained by the tracking system.
103. The LF display system of claim 102, wherein the information obtained by the tracking system includes any of a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, a gaze of the viewer, an age of a viewer, a gender of the viewer, an identification of a piece of a garment worn by the viewer, and an auditory feedback of the viewer.
104. The LF display system of claim 102, wherein the tracked information of the viewer includes the gaze of the viewer, and wherein the LF display assembly is configured to perform an action based on the gesture.
105. The LF display system of claim 104, wherein the action comprises adjusting a holographic object, adjusting a control interface, adjusting an arrangement of the one or more holographic objects, or some combination thereof.
106. The LF display system of claim 102, wherein the tracking system is part of the LF display assembly, and the LF display assembly includes at least one LF display module that has a bidirectional LF display surface which simultaneously projects holographic objects and senses light from a local area adjacent to the LF display surface.
107. The LF display system of claim 102, wherein the controller is configured to use the information obtained by the tracking system and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
108. The LF display system of claim 102, further comprising: a viewer profiling module configured to: access the information obtained by the tracking system; process the information to identify a viewer of the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and generate a viewer profile for the viewer, and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the viewer based in part on the viewer profile.
109. The LF display system of claim 108, wherein the controller is configured to use the viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
110. The LF display system of claim 108, wherein the viewer profiling module is further configured to: update the viewer profile using information from a social media account of the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content based in part on the updated viewer profile.
111. The LF display system of claim 110, wherein the controller is configured to use the updated viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
112. The LF display system of claim 96, further comprising: a tracking system configured to track a location of each viewer within the viewing volume of the enclosure; wherein the presented holographic content includes a first holographic object for a first viewer within a first portion of the viewing volume and a second holographic object for a second viewer within a second portion of the viewing volume, and the first holographic object is presented within a first portion of the holographic object volume that is visible from the first portion of the viewing volume and is not visible from the second portion of the viewing volume.
113. The LF display system of claim 112, wherein the second holographic object is presented within a second portion of the holographic object volume that is visible from the second portion of the viewing volume and is not visible from the first portion of the viewing volume, and the first holographic object is different from the second holographic object.
114. The LF display system of claim 96, further comprising: at least one curved wall forming a curved path for the one or more viewers to traverse, and wherein the at least one curved wall comprises at least one curved LF display surface formed by the plurality of LF display modules that are tiled together to form the seamless surface environment, the plurality of LF display modules including at least one of the one or more LF display modules.
115. The LF display system of claim 114, wherein the presented holographic content includes a pathway for the one or more viewers to traverse that has less curvature than a curvature of the at least one curved LF display surface.
116. The LF display system of claim 96, further comprising: an enclosure comprising a first segment and a second segment that is adjacent to the first segment, wherein the first segment encloses a first portion of the viewing volume and a first portion of the holographic object volume, wherein the presented holographic content includes a first holographic object for a first viewer within the first portion of the viewing volume, and the first holographic object is presented within the first portion of the holographic object volume and is not visible from the second portion of the viewing volume within the second segment.
117. The LF display system of claim 116, further comprising: a tracking system configured to track responses of the viewer; a viewer profiling module configured to: access the responses obtained by the tracking system; process the responses to identify a viewer of the one or more viewers of the amusement park ride; and generate a viewer profile for the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the viewer based in part on the viewer profile.
118. A light field (LF) display system comprising: a controller configured to generate holographic content; a LF display assembly comprising one or more LF display modules that are configured to the present holographic content in a holographic object volume to one or more viewers located in a viewing volume of the one or more LF display modules of an amusement park queue; a tracking system configured to track responses of a viewer of the one or more viewers to the presented holographic content within the viewing volume; and wherein the controller is configured to update the presented holographic content based on the tracked responses.
119. The LF display system of claim 118, wherein the viewing volume includes a viewing sub-volume, and LF display modules present the holographic content to a viewer located in the viewing sub-volume, and the presented holographic content is visible from inside the viewing sub-volume and is not visible from outside the viewing sub-volume.
120. The LF display system of claim 118, wherein the tracked responses obtained by the tracking system includes any of a position of the viewer, a movement of the viewer, a gesture of the viewer, an expression of the viewer, a gaze of the viewer, and auditory feedback of the viewer.
121. The LF display system of claim 118, wherein the controller is configured to use the information obtained by the tracking system and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
122. The LF display system of claim 118, wherein the holographic content presented includes a holographic character.
123. The LF display system of claim 122, wherein the tracked response of the viewer includes the gaze of the viewer, and wherein the LF display assembly is configured to update eyes of the holographic character to maintain eye-contact with the gaze of the viewer.
124. The LF display system of claim 122, wherein the one or more viewers include a first viewer and a second viewer and the tracked response includes the gaze of the first viewer and the second viewer, and wherein the LF display assembly is configured to update eyes of the holographic character to alternate directing eye-contact between the first viewer and the second viewer.
125. The LF display system of claim 118, further comprising: a viewer profiling module configured to: identify a viewer of the one or more viewers within the viewing volume, and generate a viewer profile for the viewer; and wherein the controller is configured to generate the holographic content for the viewer based in part on the viewer profile.
126. The LF display system of claim 125, wherein the controller is configured to use the viewer profile and an artificial intelligence model to generate the holographic content.
127. The LF display system of claim 125, wherein the viewer profile includes information about the holographic content preferences of the viewer, the in-park purchases of the viewer, the status of the viewer, the frequency of visiting each ride in the amusement park of the viewer, the wait times of the viewer for each amusement park ride, the frequency between visits to one particular ride in the amusement park of the viewer, or some combination thereof.
128. The LF display system of claim 125, wherein the presented holographic content includes personalized holographic content, an amusement park ride suggestion, an amusement park ride wait time, or some combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
