<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOODLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRABTREE, JASON
SELLERS, ANDREW
PARKE, BRIDGET
DAVIDS, THOMAS FREDERICK
DOUGLAS, JAMES EARL
HICKS, MATTHEW DALE
KOTHARI, NEIL A.
OKIMOTO, ERIC JAMES
WHITE, RILEY
HOANG, FRANCIS QUANG
OLDS, SHAWN NATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63790206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INTELLIGENT PEER-TO-PEER FUNDRAISING CAMPAIGN MANAGEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An intelligent peer-to-peer fundraising campaign platform is provided for managing charitable and for profit campaigns. The platform includes capabilities for creating and managing campaigns by supporters, retrieving person data for supporters and leads for the campaign, relationship data and other attributes including affinity data, donation history data, potential and financial data and storing such data in the form of social graph. The campaign platform also helps supporters of a campaign to identify leads, send personalized communication to the leads for enlisting support to the campaign, determine donor outcomes with respect to each personalized communication sent to the lead; and updating or reinforcing a donor prediction model based on the donor outcome.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing peer-to-peer campaign, comprising: determining personalized information of a supporter of the campaign and creating a personal profile based on the personalized information; determining campaign information for the campaign; identifying donor leads based on personalized information of the supporter, the campaign information, and a machine learned donor prediction model; sending personalized communication to the donor leads for enlisting support to the campaign; determining donor outcomes with respect to a set of personalized communications sent to the donor leads; and updating or reinforcing the machine learned donor prediction model based on the donor outcomes.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the campaign is a charitable fundraising campaign.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the campaign is selected from a list of charitable projects including translation projects, clean water projects, education projects, building projects, missionary projects, disaster relief projects, restoration projects, and acquisition projects.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the campaign is a for profit project campaign.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein personalized information includes personally identifiable information, social network information, contacts information, financial information and information about current and past organizations attended and supported.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein campaign information includes campaign type, cause, content, goals, participants and regulatory information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein donor outcomes are selected from a group comprising ignored, responded, responded negatively, enlisted in the campaign, donated to the campaign, volunteered, and reached out to other leads.
8. An intelligent peer-to-peer fundraising campaign platform for providing one or more supporters of a campaign opportunity to identify and enlist other potential supporters or leads in the campaign, comprising: a campaign management system that creates an electronic campaign that is supported by the one or more supporters; a data acquisition system that acquires personalized information about the one or more supporters and one or more individuals that have a relationship with the one or more supporters; a lead generation system that identifies potential supporters or leads for the campaign based on the personalized information, campaign data relating to campaign data relating to the electronic campaign, and a machine learned donor prediction model; a cognitive processes system that updates or reinforces the machine learned donor prediction model based on donor outcomes received upon sending communication to the leads by the supporters to enlist the support of the leads for the electronic campaign.
9. The platform of claim 8, further comprising a content generation system configured to generate personalized content for a contact event between a supporter and a lead.
10. The platform of claim 8, further comprising a workflow system configured to support various workflows associated with the campaign, including initial contacts, follow ups, donor outcomes and thank you notes.
11. The platform of claim 8, further comprising a storage system that stores one or more campaign records that store campaign data corresponding to respective electronic campaigns, person records that store personalized information of the one or more supporters and the one or more leads, social graphs containing relationship data and one or more machine learned models.
12. The platform of claim 8, wherein the cognitive processes system is configured to make predictions regarding leads with respect to electronic campaigns.
13. The platform of claim 12, wherein the predictions are selected from a group comprising: a likelihood that a lead is likely to donate to the campaign, a likelihood that a lead is likely to volunteer for the campaign, an amount a lead is likely to donate to the campaign and a likelihood that a lead will respond to an email regarding the campaign.
14. The platform of claim 13, wherein the cognitive processes system is configured to output scores for each possible prediction.
15. The platform of claim 8, wherein the cognitive processes system is configured to perform analytics relating to various aspects of the campaign platform.
16. The platform of claim 8, wherein the cognitive processes system is configured to run a clustering algorithm to assist the lead generation module in identifying leads for the campaign.
17. The platform of claim 16, wherein the clustering algorithm is a k-means clustering algorithm.
18. The platform of claim 8, wherein the data acquisition system is configured to find and aggregate disparate pieces of information to generate a comprehensive profile for a supporter or a lead.
19. A method for predicting a likelihood of donation by potential supporters or leads of a fundraising campaign, comprising: receiving campaign data and personal profile data from a supporter of the fundraising campaign; retrieving data from external data sources and user devices of supporters of the fundraising campaign indicating relationships between the supporters and potential supporters or leads to create a social graph; receiving donor outcome data based on response from the leads to a fundraising communication sent by the supporters; and training a machine learning algorithm on campaign data, social graph data, and the donor outcome data to predict the likelihood of donation by future leads.
20. The method as claimed in claim 19, further comprising generating an indication whether an existing or potential supporter be contacted for enlisting support for the fundraising campaign.
21. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein social graph data includes affinity data, interest data, personal history data including educational and employment history, indications of interest in particular topics, causes, donation history data, political and financial data.
</claims>
</document>
