<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/903,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVAS, KAVITHA
BHATTACHARJYA, DEBARUN
KATZ, MICHAEL
HASSANZADEH, OKTIE
SOHRABI ARAGHI, SHIRIN
PERRONE, Michael
FEBLOWITZ, Mark
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73750161
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT CAUSAL KNOWLEDGE EXTRACTION FROM DATA SOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments are provided for intelligent causal knowledge analysis from data sources in a computing system by a processor. Multiple communications may be identified from one or more data sources. One or more causal statements having a cause-effect relationship may be extracted from the plurality of communications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for intelligent causal knowledge analysis from a data source in a computing system by a processor, comprising: identifying a plurality of communications from one or more data sources; and extracting one or more causal statements having a cause-effect relationship from the plurality of communications.
2. The method of claim 1, further including classifying each of the plurality of communications as being the one or more causal statements or non-causal statements.
3. The method of claim 1, further including performing a natural language processing ("NLP") operation on the plurality of communications to identify the one or more causal statements, wherein the one or more data sources include a corpus of text data.
4. The method of claim 1, further including: creating an index of a list of a plurality of causal statements collected of a selected period of time, wherein the index is enabled to perform a search operation for a defined query; or creating a cause-effect relationship graphs having a plurality of nodes and edges representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship.
5. The method of claim 1, further including: identifying a frequency of occurrence of each of the one or more causal statements; or assigning a confidence score to the one or more causal statements indicating a degree of accuracy for the cause-effect relationship.
6. The method of claim 1, further including providing the one or more causal statements to a received cause-effect relationship query void of semantic constraints.
7. The method of claim 1, further including initiating a machine learning mechanism to: training a cause-effect relationship model for learning the cause-effect relationship to identify the one or more causal statements; identifying one or more semantic similarities between the plurality of communications; and identifying one or more paths in a cause-effect relationship graph representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship relating to a received cause-effect relationship query.
8. A system for intelligent causal knowledge analysis from a data source in a computing system, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: identify a plurality of communications from one or more data sources; and extract one or more causal statements having a cause-effect relationship from the plurality of communications.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further classify each of the plurality of communications as being the one or more causal statements or non-causal statements.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further perform a natural language processing ("NLP") operation on the plurality of communications to identify the one or more causal statements, wherein the one or more data sources include a corpus of text data.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: create an index of a list of a plurality of causal statements collected of a selected period of time, wherein the index is enabled to perform a search operation for a defined query; or creates cause-effect relationship graphs having a plurality of nodes and edges representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: identify a frequency of occurrence of each of the one or more causal statements; or assign a confidence score to the one or more causal statements indicating a degree of accuracy for the cause-effect relationship.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further provide the one or more causal statements to a received cause-effect relationship query void of semantic constraints.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further initiate a machine learning mechanism to: train a cause-effect relationship model for learning the cause-effect relationship to identify the one or more causal statements; identify one or more semantic similarities between the plurality of communications; and identify one or more paths in a cause-effect relationship graph representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship relating to a received cause-effect relationship query.
15. A computer program product for intelligent causal knowledge analysis from a data source by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that identifies a plurality of communications from one or more data sources; and an executable portion that extracts one or more causal statements having a cause-effect relationship from the plurality of communications.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that classifies each of the plurality of communications as being the one or more causal statements or non-causal statements.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that performs a natural language processing ("NLP") operation on the plurality of communications to identify the one or more causal statements, wherein the one or more data sources include a corpus of text data.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion: creates an index of a list of a plurality of causal statements collected of a selected period of time, wherein the index is enabled to perform a search operation for a defined query; or creates a cause-effect relationship graphs having a plurality of nodes and edges representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion: identifies a frequency of occurrence of each of the one or more causal statements; assigns a confidence score to the one or more causal statements indicating a degree of accuracy for the cause-effect relationship; or provides the one or more causal statements to a received cause-effect relationship query void of semantic constraints.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion initiate a machine learning mechanism to: trains a cause-effect relationship model for learning the cause-effect relationship to identify the one or more causal statements; identifies one or more semantic similarities between the plurality of communications; and identifies one or more paths in a cause-effect relationship graph representing the one or more causal statements having the cause-effect relationship relating to a received cause-effect relationship query.
</claims>
</document>
