<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Brown, Ruben E.
Willey, Richard E.
Cooper, Daniel E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73047322
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING THE STATE OF A REQUEST ROUTING MECHANISM TO INFORM ATTACK DETECTION AND MITIGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, this document describes systems, methods and apparatus for identifying and mitigating network attacks, particularly botnet attacks and other volumetric attacks. In some embodiments, a distributed computing platform provides client-facing service endpoints and a request routing mechanism (request router or RR) directing clients to a particular service endpoint or cluster thereof to obtain a service. The state of the RR at a given time is communicated to enforcement points in the system, which may be cluster equipment, service endpoints, or other components. When client traffic arrives at a particular enforcement point it is checked for consistency with the RR's directions, referred to as 'mapping consistency'. This information is incorporated into decisions about how to handle the packets from the client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for mitigating attacks against a distributed computing system, the distributed computing system providing a service from a plurality of service endpoints addressable over one or more computer networks and a request routing mechanism that directs clients to one or more service endpoints in the plurality of service endpoints, the method comprising: extracting from the request routing mechanism a mapping that identifies of one or more clients that the request routing mechanism directs to one or more service endpoints; sending the mapping to at least one enforcement point in the distributed computing system on a network path between the client and the one or more service endpoints; subsequent to said receipt of the mapping, receiving a network packet sent from a particular client to the one or more service endpoints; based on one or more characteristics of the network packet and the identification of the one or more clients in the mapping, checking whether the packet is consistent with the mapping from the request routing mechanism, and based at least in part on said check: (i) if the particular client is mapped to the one or more service endpoints, passing the network packet; (ii) if the particular client is not mapped to the one or more service endpoints, taking a mitigation action, the mitigation action selected from the group of actions that is: blocking the network packet; logging the network packet for further inspection; generating an alert about the packet; sending information about the client and the inconsistency to a client reputation scoring system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the network packet is an IP packet, and the mapping comprises a set of one or more client IP addresses and a set of one or more IP addresses associated with service endpoints.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said checking the mapping, based on one or more characteristics of the network packet, comprises comparing the source IP address of the network packet to a client IP address of the mapping, and the destination IP address in the network packet to a service endpoint IP address in the received mapping, and determining that the particular client is mapped to the one or more service endpoints if both comparisons are matches.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more service endpoints comprise a service application running on a service host.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the enforcement point is any of a cluster level and service endpoint level.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said consistency check is performed only when an in progress attack is detected.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: the request routing mechanism, in response to an in-progress attack, initiating a change in the mapping.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said change results in an updated mapping and said updated mapping is mutually exclusive with the prior mapping.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the checking step considers the prior mapping as valid for a predetermined time period after the change.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing any of a translation, de-aggregation on the extracted mapping before sending the mapping.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: for the duration of an in progress attack, the request routing mechanism repeatedly changing the mapping, and upon each change, the method repeating said extracting step.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the request routing mechanism comprises a DNS system.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more service endpoints comprises a plurality of service endpoints that represents a cluster.
14. A distributed computing system with mitigation against attacks, the distributed computing system providing a service from a plurality of service endpoints addressable over one or more computer networks, the distributed system comprising: a request routing mechanism configured to: direct clients to one or more servers in the plurality of servers, export a mapping of one or more clients to one or more service endpoints, the mapping identifying one or more clients that the request routing mechanism directs to the one or more service endpoints; and send the mapping to at least one enforcement point in the distributed computing system on a network path between the client and the one or more service endpoints; an enforcement point associated with the one or more service endpoints configured to, subsequent to said receipt of the mapping: receive a network packet sent from a particular client to the one or more service endpoints; based on one or more characteristics of the network packet and the identification of the one or more clients in the mapping, check whether the packet is consistent with the mapping from the request routing mechanism, and based at least in part on said check: (i) if the particular client is mapped to the one or more service endpoints, pass the network packet; (ii) if the particular client is not mapped to the one or more service endpoints, take a mitigation action, the mitigation action selected from the group of actions that is: block the network packet; log the network packet for further inspection; generate an alert about the packet; send information about the client and the inconsistency to a client reputation scoring system.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the network packet is an IP packet, and the mapping comprises a set of one or more client IP addresses and a set of one or more IP addresses associated with service endpoints.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein said checking the mapping, based on one or more characteristics of the network packet, comprises comparing the source IP address of the network packet to a client IP address of the mapping, and the destination IP address in the network packet to a service endpoint IP address in the received mapping, and determining that the particular client is mapped to the one or more service endpoints if both comparisons are matches.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein each of the one or more service endpoints comprise a service application running on a service host.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the enforcement point is any of a cluster level and service endpoint level.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein said consistency check is performed only when an in progress attack is detected.
20. The system of claim 14, the request routing mechanism, in response to an in-progress attack, configured to initiate a change in the mapping.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein said change results in an updated mapping and said updated mapping is mutually exclusive with the prior mapping.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the checking step considers the prior mapping as valid for a predetermined time period after the change.
23. The system of claim 14, the request routing mechanism configured to, for the duration of an in progress attack, repeatedly changing the mapping, and upon each change, the method repeating said extracting step.
24. The system of claim 14, wherein the request routing mechanism comprises a DNS system.
25. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more service endpoints comprises a plurality of service endpoints that represents a cluster.
</claims>
</document>
