<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T5/50,G06T7/13
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING SENSETIME TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
QIAN CHEN
WU, WENYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63614398
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR POSITIONING FACE FEATURE POINTS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods and apparatuses for positioning face feature points. The method includes: carrying out edge detection on a face image to obtain a face feature line image; and fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for positioning face feature points, comprising: performing edge detection on a face image to obtain a face feature line image; and fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points.
2. The method according to claim 1, before the fusing the face image and the face feature line image, further comprising: performing validity determination on the face feature line image to obtain an optimized face feature line image; and the fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points comprising: fusing the face image and the optimized face feature line image to obtain the position information of the face feature points.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the performing edge detection on a face image to obtain a face feature line image comprises: performing feature line feature extraction on the face image to obtain a feature line image; and optimizing the feature line image to obtain the face feature line image.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the performing feature line feature extraction on the face image to obtain a feature line image comprises: sequentially performing a convolution operation, a residual operation, a downsampling operation, and another residual operation on the face image to obtain the feature line image.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the optimizing the feature line image to obtain the face feature line image comprises: optimizing the feature line image by at least one stage of optimization network to obtain the face feature line image, wherein each stage of the optimization network comprises a hourglass-shaped network used for realizing a residual operation and an information transmission layer used for realizing feature line information transmission.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points comprises: performing input image fusion on the face image to obtain a first fusion image; performing at least one stage of edge image fusion on the first fusion image and the face feature line image to obtain a second fusion image; and mapping the second fusion image to obtain position vectors of feature points, and taking the position vectors as the position information of the face feature points.
7. The method according to claim 6, before performing at least one stage of edge image fusion on the first fusion image and the face feature line image, further comprising: performing optimization processing on the first fusion image to obtain an optimized first fusion image, wherein the optimization processing sequentially comprises a convolution operation, a downsampling operation, and a residual operation.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the performing input image fusion on the face image to obtain a first fusion image comprises: multiplying the face image by each predefined feature line image pixel by pixel to obtain a plurality of boundary features having one-to-one correspondence to the each predefined feature line image; and superposing the plurality of boundary features and the face image to obtain the first fusion image.
9. The method according to claim 6, wherein the performing at least one stage of edge image fusion on the first fusion image and the face feature line image to obtain a second fusion image comprises: superposing the first fusion image and the face feature line image to obtain a third fusion image; performing a residual operation on the third fusion image to obtain a fourth fusion image having a same size as the face feature line image; multiplying the first fusion image by the fourth fusion image pixel by pixel to obtain a fifth fusion image; and superposing the first fusion image and the fifth fusion image to obtain the second fusion image.
10. The method according to claim 6, among each stage of edge image fusion, further comprising: performing a residual operation on a result of each stage of edge fusion.
11. The method according to claim 6, wherein the mapping the second fusion image to obtain position vectors of feature points comprises: sequentially performing a residual operation and a full-connection operation on the second fusion image to obtain the position vectors of the feature points.
12. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor; wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to perform: performing edge detection on a face image to obtain a face feature line image; and fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points.
13. The electronic device according to claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to: perform validity determination on the face feature line image to obtain an optimized face feature line image; and the processor is further configured to: fuse the face image and the optimized face feature line image to obtain the position information of the face feature points.
14. The electronic device according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform feature line feature extraction on the face image to obtain a feature line image; and optimize the feature line image to obtain the face feature line image.
15. The electronic device according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: sequentially perform a convolution operation, a residual operation, a downsampling operation, and a residual operation on the face image to obtain the feature line image.
16. The electronic device according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: optimize the feature line image by at least one stage of optimization network to obtain the face feature line image, wherein each stage of the optimization network comprises a hourglass-shaped network used for realizing a residual operation and an information transmission layer used for realizing feature line information transmission.
17. The electronic device according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to comprises: perform input image fusion on the face image to obtain a first fusion image; perform at least one stage of edge image fusion on the first fusion image and the face feature line image to obtain a second fusion image; and map the second fusion image to obtain position vectors of feature points, and take the position vectors as the position information of the face feature points.
18. The electronic device according to claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to: perform optimization processing on the first fusion image to obtain an optimized first fusion image, wherein the optimization processing sequentially comprises a convolution operation, a downsampling operation, and a residual operation.
19. The electronic device according to claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: multiply the face image by each predefined feature line image pixel by pixel to obtain a plurality of boundary features having one-to-one correspondence to the each predefined feature line image; and superpose the plurality of boundary features and the face image to obtain the first fusion image.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having computer program instructions stored thereon, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor causes the processor to perform: performing edge detection on a face image to obtain a face feature line image; and fusing the face image and the face feature line image to obtain position information of face feature points.
</claims>
</document>
