<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/06,G06N10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOGABOAM, JUSTIN
JOHRI, SONIKA
MATSUURA, ANNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71098409
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR DYNAMICALLY ADJUSTING QUANTUM COMPUTER CLOCK FREQUENCY WITH A LOCKING PULSE
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and method for dynamically adjusting a quantum computer clock frequency. For example, one embodiment of an apparatus comprises: a quantum execution unit to execute quantum operations specified by a quantum runtime; a qubit drive controller to translate the quantum operations into physical pulses directed to qubits on a quantum chip at a first cycle frequency; a spin echo sequencer to issue spin echo command sequences to cause the qubit drive controller to generate a sequence of spin echo pulses at the first cycle frequency; and qubit measurement circuitry to measure the qubits and to store qubit timing data for each qubit, the qubit timing data indicating a coherence time or an amount of computational time available for each qubit to perform quantum operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a quantum execution unit to execute quantum operations specified by a quantum runtime; a qubit drive controller to translate the quantum operations into physical pulses directed to qubits on a quantum chip at a first cycle frequency; a spin echo sequencer to issue spin echo command sequences to cause the qubit drive controller to generate a spin echo sequence of pulses at the first cycle frequency; and qubit measurement circuitry to measure the qubits and to store qubit timing data for each qubit, the qubit timing data indicating a coherence time or an amount of computational time available for each qubit to perform quantum operations.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the spin echo sequencer comprises execution circuitry to execute a set of spin echo instructions.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the spin echo sequencer comprises fixed function circuitry to cause the qubit drive controller to generate the spin echo sequence of pulses.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: an error sequencer to read the qubit timing data for each qubit and to issue sequences of error discrimination commands that fit within the amount of computational time available for each qubit.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the sequences of error discrimination commands are to be converted by the qubit drive controller to a sequence of error discrimination pulses.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the qubit measurement circuitry is to measure the qubits following the sequence of error discrimination pulses and to determine and store a per qubit error rate.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 further comprising: a frequency scaling unit to determine a new dynamic cycle frequency using the per-qubit error rate.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the quantum execution unit is to execute a subsequent set of quantum operations in accordance with the new dynamic cycle frequency.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 further comprising: an idle cycle detector to provide an indication when no operations related to a quantum algorithm are being executed by the quantum execution unit, wherein the spin echo sequencer to is to begin issuing the spin echo command sequences responsive to the indication.
10. A method comprising: executing quantum operations specified by a quantum runtime; translating the quantum operations into physical pulses directed to qubits on a quantum chip at a first cycle frequency; issuing spin echo command sequences of operations to cause a spin echo sequence of pulses to be generated at the first cycle frequency; and measuring the qubits and storing qubit timing data for each qubit, the qubit timing data indicating a coherence time or an amount of computational time available for each qubit to perform quantum operations.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the sequences of operations comprise sequences of executable instructions, the method further comprising: executing the sequences of executable instructions on quantum execution circuitry to cause the spin echo sequence of pulses to be generated.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the sequences of operations comprise digital signaling implemented on fixed function circuitry to cause the spin echo sequence of pulses.
13. The method of claim 10 further comprising: issuing sequences of error discrimination commands that fit within the amount of computational time available for each qubit.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the sequences of error discrimination commands are to be converted to a sequence of error discrimination pulses directed at the qubits.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising: measuring the qubits following the sequence of error discrimination pulses; and determining and storing a per-qubit error rate responsive to measuring.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: determining a new dynamic cycle frequency using the per-qubit error rate.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: executing a subsequent set of quantum operations in accordance with the new dynamic cycle frequency.
18. The method of claim 10 further comprising: providing an indication when no operations related to a quantum algorithm are being executed by the quantum execution unit, initiating the issuing of the spin echo command sequences responsive to the indication.
19. A machine-readable medium having program code stored thereon which, when executed by a machine, causes the machine to perform the operations of: executing quantum operations specified by a quantum runtime; translating the quantum operations into physical pulses directed to qubits on a quantum chip at a first cycle frequency; issuing spin echo command sequences of operations to cause a spin echo sequence of pulses to be generated at the first cycle frequency; and measuring the qubits and storing qubit timing data for each qubit, the qubit timing data indicating a coherence time or an amount of computational time available for each qubit to perform quantum operations.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the sequences of operations comprise sequences of executable instructions, the machine-readable medium further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: executing the sequences of executable instructions on quantum execution circuitry to cause the spin echo sequence of pulses to be generated.
21. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 wherein the sequences of operations comprise digital signaling implemented on fixed function circuitry to cause the spin echo sequence of pulses.
22. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: issuing sequences of error discrimination commands that fit within the amount of computational time available for each qubit.
23. The machine-readable medium of claim 22 wherein the sequences of error discrimination commands are to be converted to a sequence of error discrimination pulses directed at the qubits.
24. The machine-readable medium of claim 23 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: measuring the qubits following the sequence of error discrimination pulses; and determining and storing a per-qubit error rate responsive to measuring.
25. The machine-readable medium of claim 24 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: determining a new dynamic cycle frequency using the per-qubit error rate.
26. The machine-readable medium of claim 25 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: executing a subsequent set of quantum operations in accordance with the new dynamic cycle frequency.
27. The machine-readable medium of claim 19 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: providing an indication when no operations related to a quantum algorithm are being executed by the quantum execution unit, initiating the issuing of the spin echo command sequences responsive to the indication.
</claims>
</document>
