<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/18,H04W4/029,H04W4/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAGUIB, AYMAN F.
JUANG, BEN-HENG
BELGHOUL, FAROUK
MUCKE, CHRISTIAN W.
RIVERA-BARRETO, RAFAEL L.
MALTHANKAR, ROHAN C.
SAXENA, SUMIT
CHAWDA, KUSHAL M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66244544
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Expanded Implementation of Enhanced Broadcast Multicast Services for Broadcast Multicast Content Selection and Service
</title>

<abstract>
A network controller, a user equipment (UE) device, and associated methods for conducting intelligent enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS). A network controller receives user preference information and location information from a plurality of UEs. The network controller selects one or more data packages to transmit using eMBMS in one or more broadcast regions based on the user preference information and the location information. The one or more data packages may comprise an updated machine learning model in a distributed learning application. The network controller provides an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions using eMBMS.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A network controller configured to direct broadcast communication, comprising: a processing element communicatively coupled to network infrastructure, wherein the processing element is configured to: receive user preference information from a plurality of user equipment devices (UEs), the user preference information indicating a preference of respective UEs to receive one or more data packages through a broadcast service; receive location information from at least a subset of the plurality of UEs; for each of a plurality of broadcast regions, determine a number of first UEs located in the respective broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package; select one or more broadcast regions from among the plurality of broadcast regions within which to perform broadcast services based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information, wherein the one or more broadcast regions are selected further based on the number of first UEs located in the respective broadcast region exceeding a predetermined threshold; for each selected broadcast region, select one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information; and provide an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions.
2. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the one or more data packages comprise parameters associated with a collaborative deep learning model.
3. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the user preference information comprises a data consumption behavior vector, and wherein selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information comprises constructing an aggregate data consumption behavior vector based on the data consumption vectors received from the plurality of UEs.
4. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the one or more data packages are selected from a set of potential data packages available for broadcast received from one or more remote devices, and wherein said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages is further based at least in part on a negotiation process between the network controller and the one or more remote devices.
5. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the data packages comprise one or more of: an operating system update; an application update; a local update to a map application; an audio file; and a video file.
6. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
7. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the network controller is a content provider server.
8. A method for directing broadcast communication, the method comprising, by a network controller: receiving user preference information from a plurality of user equipment devices (UEs), the user preference information indicating a preference of respective UEs to receive one or more data packages through a broadcast service; receiving location information from at least a subset of the plurality of UEs; for each of a plurality of broadcast regions, determining a number of first UEs located in the respective broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package; selecting one or more broadcast regions from among the plurality of broadcast regions within which to perform broadcast services based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information, wherein the one or more broadcast regions are selected further based on the number of first UEs located in the respective broadcast region exceeding a predetermined threshold; for each selected broadcast region, selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information; and providing an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more data packages comprise parameters associated with a collaborative deep learning model.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the user preference information comprises a data consumption behavior vector, and wherein selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information comprises constructing an aggregate data consumption behavior vector based on the data consumption vectors received from the plurality of UEs.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more data packages are selected from a set of potential data packages available for broadcast received from one or more remote devices, and wherein said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages is further based at least in part on a negotiation process between the network controller and the one or more remote devices.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the data packages comprise one or more of: an operating system update; an application update; a local update to a map application; an audio file; and a video file.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the network controller is a content provider server.
15. A network controller configured to direct broadcast communication, comprising: a processing element communicatively coupled to network infrastructure, wherein the processing element is configured to: receive user preference information from a plurality of user equipment devices (UEs), the user preference information indicating a preference of respective UEs to receive one or more data packages through a broadcast service; receive location information from at least a subset of the plurality of UEs; select one or more broadcast regions within which to perform broadcast services based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information; for each selected broadcast region, select one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information, wherein the one or more data packages are selected from a set of potential data packages available for broadcast received from one or more remote devices, and wherein said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages is further based at least in part on a negotiation process between the network controller and the one or more remote devices; and provide an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions.
16. The network controller of claim 15, wherein the one or more data packages comprise parameters associated with a collaborative deep learning model.
17. The network controller of claim 15, wherein the user preference information comprises a data consumption behavior vector, and wherein selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information comprises constructing an aggregate data consumption behavior vector based on the data consumption vectors received from the plurality of UEs.
18. The network controller of claim 15, wherein the data packages comprise one or more of: an operating system update; an application update; a local update to a map application; an audio file; and a video file.
19. The network controller of claim 15, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
20. The network controller of claim 15, wherein the network controller is a content provider server.
</claims>
</document>
