<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T1/60,G06T15/06,G06T15/20,G06T9/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SURTI, PRASOONKUMAR
APODACA, MICHAEL
XIAO KAI
BENTHIN, CARSTEN
BROWNLEE, CARSON
BARCZAK, JOSHUA
RAOUX, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71124389
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Context-aware compression with quantization of hierarchical transform matrices
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and method for context-aware compression. For example, one embodiment of an apparatus comprises: ray traversal/intersection circuitry to traverse rays through a hierarchical acceleration data structure to identify intersections between rays and primitives of a graphics scene; matrix compression circuitry/logic to compress hierarchical transformation matrices to generate compressed hierarchical transformation matrices by quantizing N-bit floating point data elements associated with child transforms of the hierarchical transformation matrices to variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprising offsets from a parent transform of the child transform; and an instance processor to generate a plurality of instances of one or more base geometric objects in accordance with the compressed hierarchical transformation matrices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: ray traversal/intersection circuitry to traverse rays through a hierarchical acceleration data structure to identify intersections between rays and primitives of a graphics scene; matrix compression circuitry/logic to compress hierarchical transformation matrices to generate compressed hierarchical transformation matrices by quantizing N-bit floating point data elements associated with child transforms of the hierarchical transformation matrices to variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprising offsets from a parent transform of the child transform, wherein the hierarchical transformation matrices store representation of the hierarchical acceleration data structure; and an instance processor to generate a plurality of instances of one or more base geometric objects in accordance with the compressed hierarchical transformation matrices wherein instances of the one or more base geometric objects form the primitives of the graphics scene.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the N-bit floating point data elements comprise 32-bit floating point data elements and wherein the variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprise 8-bit data elements.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the instance processor is to analyze current context parameters associated with the ray traversal to determine a level of precision with which to quantize one or more of the N-bit floating point data elements.
4. The apparatus of claim 3 wherein the instance processor is further to determine the level of precision based on an error tolerance of the graphics scene.
5. The apparatus of claim 4 wherein the context parameters are to be evaluated to determine the error tolerance, the error tolerance based on a distance from a camera to the primitives of the graphics scene and/or a type of ray being traversed by the ray traversal/intersection circuitry.
6. The apparatus of claim 5 wherein the context parameters are evaluated at creation time of the graphics scene and/or at runtime.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the graphics scene creation time, the evaluation is associated with a particular one or more objects in a region of interest and wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the runtime, the evaluation is based on the distance.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the matrix compression circuitry/logic to compress the hierarchical transformation matrices comprises a procedural transform generator to procedurally generate the compressed hierarchical transformation matrices based on the hierarchical transformation matrices.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the matrix compression circuitry/logic is to further compress the hierarchical transformation matrices by selecting only a subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or only a subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices.
10. The apparatus of claim 9 wherein the matrix compression circuitry/logic is to determine the subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or the subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices based on context parameters associated with ray traversal.
11. A method comprising: traversing rays through a hierarchical acceleration data structure to identify intersections between rays and primitives of a graphics scene; compressing hierarchical transformation matrices to generate compressed hierarchical transformation matrices by quantizing N-bit floating point data elements associated with child transforms of the hierarchical transformation matrices to variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprising offsets from a parent transform of the child transform, wherein the hierarchical transformation matrices store representation of the hierarchical acceleration data structure; and generating a plurality of instances of one or more base geometric objects in accordance with the compressed hierarchical transformation matrices wherein instances of the one or more base geometric objects form the primitives of the graphics scene.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the N-bit floating point data elements comprise 32-bit floating point data elements and wherein the variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprise 8-bit data elements.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising: analyzing current context parameters associated with traversing the rays to determine a level of precision with which to quantize one or more of the N-bit floating point data elements.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the level of precision is to be determined based on an error tolerance of the graphics scene.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the context parameters are to be evaluated to determine the error tolerance, the error tolerance based on a distance from a camera to the primitives of the graphics scene and/or a type of ray being traversed.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the context parameters are evaluated at creation time of the graphics scene and/or at runtime.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the graphics scene creation time, the evaluation is associated with a particular one or more objects in a region of interest and wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the runtime, the evaluation is based on the distance.
18. The method of claim 11 wherein compressing the hierarchical transformation matrices comprises procedurally generating the compressed transformation matrices based on the hierarchical transformation matrices.
19. The method of claim 11 further comprising: further compressing the hierarchical transformation matrices by selecting only a subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or only a subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or the subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices are determined based on context parameters associated with ray traversal.
21. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having program code stored thereon which, when executed by a machine, causes the machine to perform the operations of: traversing rays through a hierarchical acceleration data structure to identify intersections between rays and primitives of a graphics scene; compressing hierarchical transformation matrices to generate compressed hierarchical transformation matrices by quantizing N-bit floating point data elements associated with child transforms of the hierarchical transformation matrices to variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprising offsets from a parent transform of the child transform, wherein the hierarchical transformation matrices store representation of the hierarchical acceleration data structure; and generating a plurality of instances of one or more base geometric objects in accordance with the compressed hierarchical transformation matrices wherein instances of the one or more base geometric objects form the primitives of the graphics scene.
22. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 21 wherein the N-bit floating point data elements comprise 32-bit floating point data elements and wherein the variable-bit floating point numbers or integers comprise 8-bit data elements.
23. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 21 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: analyzing current context parameters associated with traversing the rays to determine a level of precision with which to quantize one or more of the N-bit floating point data elements.
24. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 23 wherein the level of precision is to be determined based on an error tolerance of the graphics scene.
25. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 24 wherein the context parameters are to be evaluated to determine the error tolerance, the error tolerance based on a distance from a camera to the primitives of the graphics scene and/or a type of ray being traversed.
26. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 25 wherein the context parameters are evaluated at creation time of the graphics scene and/or at runtime.
27. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 26 wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the graphics scene creation time, the evaluation is associated with a particular one or more objects in a region of interest and wherein if the context parameters are evaluated at the runtime, the evaluation is based on the distance.
28. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 21 wherein compressing the hierarchical transformation matrices comprises procedurally generating the compressed transformation matrices based on the hierarchical transformation matrices.
29. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 21 further comprising program code to cause the machine to perform the operations of: further compressing the hierarchical transformation matrices by selecting only a subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or only a subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices.
30. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 29 wherein the subset of the hierarchical transformation matrices and/or the subset of data elements of the hierarchical transformation matrices are determined based on context parameters associated with ray traversal.
</claims>
</document>
