<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B5/20,G05D1/02,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRUVER, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC MATRIX FILTER FOR VEHICLE IMAGE SENSOR
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the present disclosure include systems, methods, and devices use a controllable matrix filter to selectively obscure regions of an image sensor's field of view. The controllable matrix filter is a physical component that may be placed in front of an image sensor and, in certain situations, one or more regions of the otherwise transparent matrix filter may be selectively configured to have an increased optical density such that the one or more regions become opaque thereby blocking out certain regions of the image sensor's field of view. In this way, the controllable matrix filter may be used to mask out certain regions in an image sensor's field of view that may present processing difficulties for downstream systems that utilize information from the image sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting, by one or more processors of a filter controller, a region of interest in a field of view of an image sensor of an autonomous vehicle (AV) system; selecting, by the one or more processors of the filter controller, a target region in the field of view of the image sensor based on the region of interest in the field of view; adjusting, by a dynamic matrix filter coupled to the image sensor, an optical density of the target region in the field of view of the image sensor; and generating, at the image sensor, image data with the target region in the field of view of the image sensor having an adjusted optical density.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting of the region of interest comprises: accessing map data comprising a map of an area that is a current location of the AV system; accessing vehicle pose data comprising a position and an orientation of the AV system; and determining the region of interest in the field of view of the image sensor based on the map data and vehicle pose data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the selecting of the target region in the field of view of the image sensor comprises: selecting a remaining region in the field of view of the image sensor as the target region, the remaining region excluding the region of interest.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the image data is second image data; the detecting of the region of interest in the field of view of the image sensor comprises analyzing first image data to identify a saturated region, the first image data being generated prior to adjusting the optical density of the target region; and the selecting of the target region comprises mapping the saturated region in the first image data to the target region in the field of view of the image sensor.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the adjusting of the optical density of the target region in the field of view of the image sensor comprises applying, by the dynamic matrix filter, a first optical density to the target region in the field of view of the image sensor; the method further comprises: determining a saturation of the saturated region in the second image data satisfies a saturation condition; and applying a second optical density to the target region in the field of view of the image sensor.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the optical density comprises: generating, by the filter controller, a control signal that causes the dynamic matrix filter to apply the adjusted optical density to the field of view of the image sensor; and transmitting, by the filter controller, the control signal to the dynamic matrix filter.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the adjusting further comprises: determining a first optical density for a first sub-region within the target region; and determining a second optical density for a second sub-region within the target region; wherein the control signal causes the dynamic matrix filter to: apply the first optical density to the first sub-region within the target region of the field of view of the image sensor; and apply the second optical density to the second sub-region within the target region of the field of view of the image sensor.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the optical density comprises changing the optical density of the dynamic matrix filter in the target region of the field of view of the image sensor from a default optical density to the adjusted optical density.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the optical density comprises increasing the optical density of the dynamic matrix filter in the target region of the field of view of the image sensor.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: detecting, by the filter controller, a termination event; and based on detecting the termination event, returning the optical density of the dynamic matrix filter in the target region of the field of view of the image sensor to the default optical density.
11. A system comprising: an image sensor to generate first image data comprising a depiction of a real-world scene that is visible within a field of view of the image sensor; a dynamic matrix filter positioned in a field of view of the image sensor, the dynamic matrix filter comprising an array of elements having an adjustable optical density; and a filter controller comprising one or more processors, the filter controller to perform operations comprising: detecting a region of interest in the field of view of the image sensor; selecting a target region in the field of view of the image sensor based on the region of interest; generating a control signal to cause the dynamic matrix filter to physically obscure the target region in the field of view of the image sensor; and transmitting the control signal to the dynamic matrix filter; the dynamic matrix filter to physically obscure the target region in the field of view of the image sensor based on the control signal, the dynamic matrix filter to physically obscure the target region by increasing an optical density of one or more elements in the array of elements; and the image sensor to generate second image data with the target region in the field of view of the image sensor having an increased optical density.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the generating of the control signal comprises: mapping the target region in the field of view of the image sensor to the one or more elements in the array of elements.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the detecting of the region of interest in the field of view of the image sensor comprises: accessing map data comprising a map of an area that includes the real-world scene and information describing one or more features of the area; accessing vehicle pose data comprising a position and an orientation of an autonomous vehicle system; and determining the region of interest based on the map data and vehicle pose data.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the selecting of the target region in the field of view of the image sensor comprises: selecting a remaining region in the field of view of the image sensor that excludes the region of interest.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein: the detecting of the region of interest in the field of view of the image sensor comprises analyzing the first image data to identify a saturated region; and the selecting of the target region comprises mapping the saturated region in the first image data to the target region in the field of view of the image sensor.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the generating of the control signal comprises: determining a first optical density for a first sub-region within the target region; and determining a second optical density for a second sub-region within the target region; wherein the dynamic matrix filter physically obscures the target region by: adjusting a first set of elements in the array of elements according to the first optical density; and adjusting a second set of elements in the array of elements according to the second optical density.
17. A dynamic matrix filter comprising: an array of elements positioned in a field of view of an image sensor, each element in the array of elements having an adjustable optical density, the image sensor to generate image data depicting a real-world scene, an optical density of one or more elements in the array of elements being increased in response to a control signal received from a filter controller, the increasing of the one or more elements in the array of elements physically obscuring a target region in the field of view of the image sensor.
18. The dynamic matrix filter of claim 17, wherein: the image sensor comprises a focal plane array; and the optical density of the one or more elements in the array of elements is increased based in part on a mapping of the one or more elements in the focal plane array that correspond to the target region of the field of view of the image sensor.
19. The dynamic matrix filter of claim 18, wherein the image sensor further comprises a lens system, wherein the array of elements is positioned between the lens system and the focal plane array.
20. The dynamic matrix filter of claim 18, wherein the image sensor further comprises a lens system, wherein the array of elements is positioned between the real-world scene and the lens system.
</claims>
</document>
