<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIPRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BATWAL, PIYUSH
GOPALAKRISHNAN, KAVITHA
JAYARAMAN, VENKATA, SUBRAMANIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516368
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PREVENTING FAILURES OF A PRODUCT IN A VIRTUAL TESTING ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is related to a method and a system for preventing failures of a product of real production environment in virtual testing environment. A virtual process corresponding to each physical process related to the product is created and replicated in real-time in the virtual testing environment based on input data related to each physical process. Further one or more errors that occurred during implementation of each virtual process and corresponding error pattern are detected and the error pattern corresponding to each of the one or more errors is analyzed with corresponding historical pattern to predict the failures of the product. Finally a solution for resolving the one or more errors is determined to prevent occurrence of the predicted failures in each physical process. The present disclosure provides accurate failure predictions and accurate remedies for preventing the predicted failures based on real-time data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of preventing failures of a product of a real production environment in a virtual testing environment, the method comprising: creating, by a failure predicting system, a virtual process corresponding to each of one or more physical processes implemented in real-time, wherein each of the one or more physical processes are related to the product of the real production environment; replicating, by the failure predicting system, the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes, in real-time, in the virtual testing environment based on input data related to each of the one or more physical processes, wherein the input data is a copy of production data extracted in real-time from each of the one or more physical processes; detecting, by the failure predicting system, one or more errors that occurred during implementation of the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes and a corresponding error pattern; analyzing, by the failure prediction system, the error pattern corresponding to each of the one or more errors with a corresponding historical pattern to predict the failures of the product; and determining, by the failure predicting system, a solution for resolving the one or more errors to prevent occurrence of the predicted failure in the one or more physical processes.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the solution is executed on the product related to each of the one or more physical processes to resolve the one or more errors.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprises: transmitting, by the failure predicting system, a notification comprising the one or more errors and the predicted failure to an expert associated with the product, when the failure prediction system fails to determine the solution; and triggering, by the failure predicting system, machine learning to self-learn one or more actions performed by the expert to resolve the one or more errors.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising verifying, by the failure predicting system, accuracy of the input data prior to replication of the virtual process.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the virtual process created for each of the one or more physical processes is stored in a virtual library associated with the failure prediction system for reuse.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the input data and the production data comprises at least one of names of the one or more physical processes, identifiers (ID) of the one or more physical processes, a quantity related to the one or more physical processes or a time stamp related to the one or more physical processes.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the corresponding historical patterns are stored in a shared repository associated with the failure predicting system.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the failure comprises at least one of a system failure, a memory over run, an increase in Central Processing Unit (CPU) utilization or another product specific failure.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the replicating the virtual process comprises matching sequence of activities and timestamp of the virtual process with the sequence of activities and the timestamp of the corresponding physical process.
10. A failure prediction system for preventing failures of a product of a real production environment in a virtual testing environment, the failure prediction system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the memory stores the processor-executable instructions, which, on execution, causes the processor to: create a virtual process corresponding to each of one or more physical processes implemented in real-time, wherein each of the one or more physical processes are related to the product of the real production environment; replicate the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes, in real-time, in the virtual testing environment based on input data related to each of the one or more physical processes, wherein the input data is a copy of production data extracted in real-time from each of the one or more physical processes; detect one or more errors that occurred during implementation of the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes and a corresponding error pattern; analyze the error pattern corresponding to each of the one or more errors with a corresponding historical pattern to predict the failures of the product; and determine a solution for resolving the one or more errors to prevent occurrence of the predicted failure in the one or more physical processes.
11. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the solution is executed on the product related to each of the one or more physical processes to resolve the one or more errors.
12. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: transmit a notification comprising the one or more errors and the predicted failure to an expert associated with the product, when the failure prediction system fails to determine the solution; and trigger machine learning to self-learn one or more actions performed by the expert to resolve the one or more errors.
13. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to verify accuracy of the input data prior to replication of the virtual process.
14. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor stores the virtual process created for each of the one or more physical processes in a virtual library associated with the failure prediction system for reuse.
15. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the input data and the production data comprises at least one of names of the one or more physical processes, identifiers (ID) of the one or more physical processes, quantity related to the one or more physical processes or time stamp related to the one or more physical processes.
16. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the corresponding historical patterns are stored in a shared repository associated with the failure predicting system.
17. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the failure comprises at least one of system failure, memory over run, increase in Central Processing Unit (CPU) utilization or other product specific failures.
18. The failure prediction system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the replicating the virtual process comprises matching sequence of activities and timestamp of the virtual process with the sequence of activities and the timestamp of the corresponding physical process.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor causes the processor to: creating a virtual process corresponding to each of one or more physical processes implemented in real-time, wherein each of the one or more physical processes are related to the product of the real production environment; replicating the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes, in real-time, in the virtual testing environment based on input data related to each of the one or more physical processes, wherein the input data is a copy of production data extracted in real-time from each of the one or more physical processes; detecting one or more errors that occurred during implementation of the virtual process corresponding to each of the one or more physical processes and a corresponding error pattern; analyzing the error pattern corresponding to each of the one or more errors with a corresponding historical pattern to predict the failures of the product; and determining a solution for resolving the one or more errors to prevent occurrence of the predicted failure in the one or more physical processes.
</claims>
</document>
