<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06F21/55,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06T11/00,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAFT, URI
WONG, LIK
KAVAL, MARIA
GARVEY, DUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58358837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR CREATING PERIOD PROFILE FOR TIME-SERIES DATA WITH RECURRENT PATTERNS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for generating period profiles. According to an embodiment, a set of time series data is received, where the set of time series data includes data spanning a plurality of time windows having a seasonal period. Based at least in part on the set of time-series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period is associated with a particular class of seasonal pattern. A profile for a seasonal period that identifies which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern is generated and stored, in volatile or non-volatile storage. Based on the profile, a visualization is generated for at least one sub-period of the first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period that indicates that the at least one sub-period is part of the particular class of seasonal pattern.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a set of time series data that includes data spanning a plurality of time windows having a seasonal period; associating, based at least in part on the set of time series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period with a particular class of seasonal pattern; wherein, after associating the first set of sub-periods with the particular class of seasonal pattern, a second set of sub-periods is not associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; generating a forecast based at least in part on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; and performing, by one or more computing devices, one or more seasonal-aware operations based at least in part on the forecast.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular class of seasonal pattern is a sparse pattern that seasonally recurs within a noise signal extracted from the set of time series data; and wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations account for the sparse pattern in the forecast.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising associating the second set of sub-periods with a dense pattern that seasonally recurs when the noise signal is removed from the set of time series data; wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations further account for the dense pattern in the forecast.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the forecast projects resource utilization of at least one computing resource for a future window of time.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations comprises determining whether to flag a high as anomalous based on the particular class of seasonal pattern in the forecast.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations comprises scheduling at least one of a maintenance operation or a batch job on at least one computing resource based on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations include performing at least one of consolidating or deploying computing resources based on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein associating, based at least in part on the set of time series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period with a particular class of seasonal pattern comprises applying a plurality of classifiers to a plurality of sub-periods within the seasonal period; and including sub-period from the plurality of sub-periods in the first set of sub-periods that have been associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern by a threshold number of classifiers.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the second set of sub-periods is associated with a second class of seasonal pattern or is unclassified.
10. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions, which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause performance of operations comprising: receiving a set of time series data that includes data spanning a plurality of time windows having a seasonal period; associating, based at least in part on the set of time series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period with a particular class of seasonal pattern; wherein, after associating the first set of sub-periods with the particular class of seasonal pattern, a second set of sub-periods is not associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; generating a forecast based at least in part on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; and performing, by one or more computing devices, one or more seasonal-aware operations based at least in part on the forecast.
11. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the particular class of seasonal pattern is a sparse pattern that seasonally recurs within a noise signal extracted from the set of time series data; and wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations account for the sparse pattern in the forecast.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, the operations further comprising associating the second set of sub-periods with a dense pattern that seasonally recurs when the noise signal is removed from the set of time series data; wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations further account for the dense pattern in the forecast.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the forecast projects resource utilization of at least one computing resource for a future window of time.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations comprises determining whether to flag a high as anomalous based on the particular class of seasonal pattern in the forecast.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations comprises scheduling at least one of a maintenance operation or a batch job on at least one computing resource based on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations include performing at least one of consolidating or deploying computing resources based on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein associating, based at least in part on the set of time series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period with a particular class of seasonal pattern comprises applying a plurality of classifiers to a plurality of sub-periods within the seasonal period; and including sub-period from the plurality of sub-periods in the first set of sub-periods that have been associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern by a threshold number of classifiers.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the second set of sub-periods is associated with a second class of seasonal pattern or is unclassified.
19. A system comprising: one or more hardware processors; one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions, which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause performance of operations comprising: receiving a set of time series data that includes data spanning a plurality of time windows having a seasonal period; associating, based at least in part on the set of time series data, a first set of sub-periods of the seasonal period with a particular class of seasonal pattern; wherein, after associating the first set of sub-periods with the particular class of seasonal pattern, a second set of sub-periods is not associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; generating a forecast based at least in part on which sub-periods of the seasonal period are associated with the particular class of seasonal pattern; and performing, by one or more computing devices, one or more seasonal-aware operations based at least in part on the forecast.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the particular class of seasonal pattern is a sparse pattern that seasonally recurs within a noise signal extracted from the set of time series data; and wherein the one or more seasonal-aware operations account for the sparse pattern in the forecast.
</claims>
</document>
