<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/533,A63F13/58,A63F13/69,A63F13/837
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUN, Dajia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64346807
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUAL BACKPACK INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for displaying a virtual backpack interface in a game application is provided. A main interface including a virtual environment of a virtual object in the game application is displayed. A backpack display signal is received during the display of the main interface. The virtual backpack interface that includes at least two sublists including different types of virtual items is displayed in response to the backpack display signal. Each of the sublists includes only one of the different types of virtual items. The different types of virtual items include at least one of a healing type, a gun attachment type, and an ammunition type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for displaying a virtual backpack interface in a game application, comprising: displaying, by processing circuitry, a main interface including a virtual environment of a virtual object in the game application; receiving, by the processing circuitry, a backpack display signal during the display of the main interface; and displaying, by the processing circuitry, the virtual backpack interface that includes at least two sublists including different types of virtual items in response to the backpack display signal, each of the sublists including only one of the different types of virtual items, the different types of virtual items includes at least one of a healing type, a gun attachment type, and an ammunition type.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein before the displaying the virtual backpack interface, the method further includes: determining priorities of the types of virtual items corresponding to the sublists, and determining a display sequence of the sublists in the virtual backpack interface based on the priorities of the types of virtual items corresponding to the sublists; and the displaying the virtual backpack interface includes displaying the sublists based on the display sequence in the virtual backpack interface in response to the backpack display signal.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determining the priorities of the types of virtual items comprises: obtaining historical item usage data, the historical item usage data indicating usage frequencies of virtual items belonging to the types of virtual items, and sorting the usage frequencies of the types of virtual items according to the historical item usage data, to obtain the priorities of the types of virtual items.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determining the priorities of the types of virtual items comprises: receiving a priority sorting signal, the types of virtual items being sorted according to the priority sorting signal to obtain the priorities of the types of virtual items.
5. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determining the priorities of the types of virtual items comprises: determining a demand state of the virtual object for a target type of the types of virtual items; setting, in a case that the demand state meets a target demand state of the virtual object for the target type of the types of virtual items, the target type of virtual items corresponding to the target demand state to a highest priority; sorting the types of virtual items other than the target type according to preset priorities; and obtaining the priorities of the types of virtual items according to the highest priority and the preset priorities.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the setting comprises: setting the healing type to the highest priority in a case that a hit point value of the virtual object is less than a target hit point value and the target type is the healing type; setting the ammunition type to the highest priority in a case that ammunition of the virtual object does not match a virtual gun that the virtual object is equipped with and the target type is the ammunition type; and setting the gun attachment type to the highest priority in a case that a first attachment of the virtual gun is damaged and a second attachment is included in a sublist of the gun attachment type.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the healing type corresponds to a first sublist, the gun attachment type corresponds to a second sublist, and the ammunition type corresponds to a third sublist; and the virtual backpack interface includes the first sublist, the second sublist, and the third sublist arranged from top to bottom.
8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving a virtual item picking-up signal to pick up a target virtual item; determining a type of the target virtual item; and storing the target virtual item in a corresponding sublist of the at least two sublists according to the type of the target virtual item.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the healing type includes a first type of virtual item, and the target virtual item is of the first type of virtual item; and the storing the target virtual item in the corresponding sublist includes increasing, in a case that a first sublist corresponding to the healing type includes a first quantity of virtual items of the first type of virtual item, the first quantity of virtual items by adding a second quantity of virtual items corresponding to the target virtual item, to obtain a third quantity of virtual items of the first type in the first sublist after the target virtual item is picked up.
10. The method according to claim 8, wherein the type of the target virtual item is the gun attachment type; and the storing the target virtual item in the corresponding sublist includes: assembling the target virtual item to a slot of a virtual gun in a case that the virtual object is equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment and the slot of the virtual gun for assembling the target virtual item is empty; storing the target virtual item in a second sublist corresponding to the gun attachment type in a case that the virtual object is equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment and the slot of the virtual gun for assembling the target virtual item is not empty; storing the target virtual item in the second sublist in a case that the virtual object is equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment and the virtual gun does not include the slot for assembling the target virtual item; and storing the target virtual item in the second sublist in a case that the virtual object is not equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment.
11. The method according to claim 8, wherein the type of the target virtual item is the ammunition type; and the storing the target virtual item in the corresponding sublist includes: loading the target virtual item into a clip in a case that the virtual object is equipped with a virtual gun in the virtual environment, the clip assembled in the virtual gun matches the target virtual item, and the clip is empty; storing the target virtual item in a third sublist corresponding to the ammunition type in a case that the virtual object is equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment, the clip assembled in the virtual gun matches the target virtual item, and the clip is not empty; storing the target virtual item in the third sublist in a case that the virtual object is equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment, and the clip assembled in the virtual gun does not match the target virtual item; and storing the target virtual item in the third sublist in a case that the virtual object is not equipped with the virtual gun in the virtual environment.
12. The method according to claim 8, wherein the determining the type of the target virtual item comprises: determining an occupied capacity of the target virtual item in a virtual backpack; determining an available capacity of the target virtual item in the virtual backpack, the available capacity being calculated by a difference between a total capacity of the target virtual item in the virtual backpack and the occupied capacity of the target virtual item in the virtual backpack; and determining the type of the target virtual item in a case that the occupied capacity of the target virtual item in the virtual backpack is less than or equal to the available capacity of the target virtual item in the virtual backpack.
13. A display apparatus comprising: processing circuitry configured to display a main interface including a virtual environment of a virtual object in a game application; receive a backpack display signal during the display of the main interface; and display a virtual backpack interface that includes at least two sublists including different types of virtual items in response to the backpack display signal, each of the sublist including only one of the different types of virtual items, the different types of virtual items including at least one of a healing type, a gun attachment type, and an ammunition type.
14. The display apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine priorities of the types of virtual items corresponding to the sublists; determine a display sequence of the sublists in the virtual backpack interface based on the priorities of the types of virtual items corresponding to the sublists; and display the sublists based on the display sequence in the virtual backpack interface in response to the backpack display signal.
15. The display apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to obtain historical item usage data, the historical item usage data indicating usage frequencies of virtual items belonging to the types of virtual items; and sort the usage frequencies of the types according to the historical item usage data, to obtain the priorities of the types.
16. The display apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to receive a priority sorting signal, the types of virtual items being sorted according to the priority sorting signal to obtain the priorities of the types of virtual items.
17. The display apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine a demand state of the virtual object for a target type of the types of virtual items; set, in a case that the demand state meets a target demand state of the virtual object for the target type of the types of virtual items, the target type of virtual items corresponding to the target demand state to a highest priority; sort the types of virtual items other than the target type according to preset priorities; and obtain the priorities of the types of virtual items according to the highest priority and the preset priorities.
18. The display apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to set the healing type to the highest priority in a case that a hit point value of the virtual object is less than a target hit point value and the target type is the healing type; set the ammunition type to the highest priority in a case that ammunition of the virtual object does not match a virtual gun that the virtual object is equipped with and the target type is the ammunition type; and set the gun attachment type to the highest priority in a case that a first attachment of the virtual gun is damaged and a second attachment is included in a sublist of the gun attachment type.
19. The display apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the healing type corresponds to a first sublist, the gun attachment type corresponds to a second sublist, and the ammunition type corresponds to a third sublist; and the virtual backpack interface includes the first sublist, the second sublist, and the third sublist arranged from top to bottom.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing instructions which when executed by at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform: displaying a main interface including a virtual environment of a virtual object in a game application; receiving a backpack display signal during the display of the main interface; and displaying the virtual backpack interface that includes at least two sublists including different types of virtual items in response to the backpack display signal, each of the sublists including only one of the different types of virtual items, the different types of virtual items including at least one of a healing type, a gun attachment type, and an ammunition type.
</claims>
</document>
