<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/021,A61B7/04,G06N20/00,H04R3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEEP SCIENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLLOWAY, BRIAN C.
HYDE, RODERICK A.
NEUMAN, MARY
WINE, DAVID WILLIAM
ZUNDEL, ROGER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68502031
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETECTING PHYSIOLOGICAL INFORMATION USING A SMART STETHOSCOPE
</title>

<abstract>
A stethoscope system includes a microphone device configured to receive a plurality of sound waves from the subject and output an audio signal corresponding to the plurality of sound waves; and a control circuit configured to receive the audio signal from the microphone device and calculate a physiological parameter based on the audio signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A stethoscope system, comprising: a microphone device configured to receive a plurality of sound waves from a subject and output an audio signal corresponding to the plurality of sound waves; and a control circuit configured to receive the audio signal from the microphone device and calculate a physiological parameter based on the audio signal.
2. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit executes an audio filter on the audio signal prior to calculating the physiological parameter.
3. The stethoscope system of claim 2, wherein the control circuit selects the audio filter from a plurality of predetermined audio filters based on at least one of a physiological feature from which the plurality of sound waves were received or an expected type of the physiological parameter.
4. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit includes a first processing circuit coupled to the microphone device by a wired connection, a first communications circuit coupled to the first processing circuit by a wired connection, a second processing circuit remote from the first processing circuit, and a second communications circuit configured to wirelessly receive data from the first processing circuit via the first communications circuit and provide the received data to the second processing circuit.
5. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit includes a database mapping each calculated physiological parameter to at least one of a time of receipt of the corresponding plurality of sound waves, a location of receipt of the corresponding plurality of sound waves, or an identifier of the subject.
6. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the microphone device is configured to receive the plurality of sound waves from at least one of a heart, a lung, an abdominal cavity, or a uterus of the subject.
7. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the microphone device is configured to receive the plurality of sound waves from a vasculature of the subject, the vasculature including at least one of a neck vasculature or a leg vasculature.
8. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to amplify at least a portion of the audio signal.
9. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to output, using a display device, a visual representation of at least one of the audio signal or the physiological parameter.
10. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit includes a parameter database storing a plurality of calculated physiological parameters.
11. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to output the audio signal at a first rate less than a second rate at which the plurality of sound waves are received.
12. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to estimate a physiological condition associated with the physiological parameter using a template of the physiological condition.
13. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to cause a display remote from the microphone device to output a visual representation of the audio signal and modify the output of the visual representation based on a control signal received from a user interface coupled to the display device.
14. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit maintains a database associating audio signal data to values of the physiological parameter, generates a function mapping audio signal data to values of the physiological parameter, and calculates the physiological parameter at least partially based on the function.
15. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to overlay a first value of the calculated physiological parameter prior to delivery of therapy to the subject to a second value of the calculated physiological parameter.
16. The stethoscope system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to receive a request to provide output corresponding to a particular physiological parameter, retrieve, from a database, a plurality of electronic audio signals corresponding to the particular physiological parameter, and cause at least one of an audio output device to output at least a subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals or communications electronics to transmit the subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals.
17. The stethoscope system of claim 16, wherein the control circuit is configured to use the subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals to present a learning tool.
18. A method of operating a stethoscope, comprising: receiving, by a microphone device, a plurality of sound waves from a subject; outputting, by the microphone device, an audio signal corresponding to the plurality of sound waves; and calculating, by a control circuit, a physiological parameter based on the audio signal.
19. The method of claim 18, comprising: executing, by the control circuit, an audio filter on the audio signal prior to calculating the physiological parameter.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising: selecting, by the control circuit, the audio filter from a plurality of predetermined audio filters based on at least one of a physiological feature from which the plurality of sound waves were received or an expected type of the physiological parameter.
21. The method of claim 18, comprising: transmitting, from a first processing circuit of the control circuit to a second processing circuit of the control circuit, data regarding the audio signal, the first processing circuit coupled to the microphone device by a wired connection, the second processing circuit remote from the first processing circuit to wirelessly receive data from the first processing circuit.
22. The method of claim 18, comprising: maintaining, by the control circuit, a database mapping each calculated physiological parameter to at least one of a time of receipt of the corresponding plurality of sound waves, a location of receipt of the corresponding plurality of sound waves, or an identifier of the subject.
23. The method of claim 18, comprising: receiving, by the microphone device, the plurality of sound waves from at least one of a heart, a lung, an abdominal cavity, or a uterus of the subject.
24. The method of claim 18, comprising: receiving, by the microphone device, the plurality of sound waves from a vasculature of the subject, the vasculature including at least one of a neck vasculature or a leg vasculature.
25. The method of claim 18, comprising: amplifying, by the control circuit, at least a portion of the audio signal.
26. The method of claim 18, comprising: outputting, by the control circuit using a display device, a visual representation of at least one of the audio signal or the physiological parameter.
27. The method of claim 18, comprising: maintaining, by the control circuit, a parameter database storing a plurality of calculated physiological parameters.
28. The method of claim 18, comprising: outputting, by the control circuit, the audio signal at a first rate less than a second rate at which the plurality of sound waves are received.
29. The method of claim 18, comprising: estimating, by the control circuit, a physiological condition associated with the physiological parameter using a template of the physiological condition.
30. The method of claim 18, comprising: causing, by the control circuit, a display remote from the microphone device to output a visual representation of the audio signal and modify the output of the visual representation based on a control signal received from a user interface coupled to the display device.
31. The method of claim 18, comprising: maintaining, by the control circuit, a database associating audio signal data to values of the physiological parameter, generates a function mapping audio signal data to values of the physiological parameter, and calculates the physiological parameter at least partially based on the function.
32. The method of claim 31, comprising: overlaying, by the control circuit, a first value of the calculated physiological parameter prior to delivery of therapy to the subject to a second value of the calculated physiological parameter.
33. The method of claim 18, further comprising: receiving a request to provide output corresponding to a particular physiological parameter; retrieving, from a database, a plurality of electronic audio signals corresponding to the particular physiological parameter; and causing at least one of an audio output device to output at least a subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals or communications electronics to transmit the subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals.
34. The method of claim 33, further comprising using the subset of the plurality of electronic audio signals to present a learning tool.
35. A stethoscope system, comprising: a microphone device configured to receive a plurality of sound waves from a subject and output an audio signal corresponding to the plurality of sound waves; and a control circuit configured to receive the audio signal from the microphone device and maintain a record of the audio signal in memory.
</claims>
</document>
