<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CME GROUP (CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BONIG, ZACHARY
STUDNITZER, ARI L.
PECK-WALDEN, PEARCE IAN
BAILEY, JAMES ALLEN
MORANO, MATTHEW
MESTANOGULLARI, BARIS
KMIEC, FRANK
Bakalar, Francis Bernard
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71096634
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed Credit Control with Centralized Allocation
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for controlling use of a credit pool in connection with electronic trading in a plurality of product groups via a set of match engines are described. Credit data indicative of a current magnitude of the credit pool is obtained. A plurality of allocations of the credit pool are determined, based on the credit pool, across the plurality of product groups. For each allocation of the plurality of allocations, allocation data indicative of the allocation is provided to a respective credit controller of a set of credit controllers. The respective credit controller is disposed at a respective match engine to which a respective product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned. The use of the credit pool for an incoming order in a respective product group is thus limited in accordance with the allocation data provided to the credit controller at the respective match engine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for controlling use of a credit pool in connection with electronic trading in a plurality of product groups via a set of match engines disposed in a distributed network, in which each product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned to a respective match engine of the set of match engines, the method comprising: obtaining, by a processor, credit data indicative of current utilization of the credit pool; determining, by the processor based on the credit data, a plurality of allocations of the credit pool across the plurality of product groups, such that each allocation of the plurality of allocations is directed to a respective product group of the plurality of product groups; and providing, by the processor, for each allocation of the plurality of allocations, allocation data indicative of the allocation to a respective credit controller of a set of credit controllers disposed in the distributed network, the respective credit controller being disposed at a respective match engine of the set of match engines to which a respective product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned, wherein the allocation data configures the respective credit controller such that, in connection with an incoming order in the respective product group at the respective match engine, the use of the credit pool is limited, in accordance with the allocation data provided to the respective credit controller at the respective match engine, to a respective allocation of the plurality of allocations for the respective product group.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting, by the processor, the plurality of allocations based on trading activity since determining the plurality of allocations; and providing, by the processor, for each allocation of the plurality of allocations, further allocation data indicative of the plurality of adjusted allocations.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein adjusting the plurality of allocations is implemented after a predetermined number of orders have been entered via the set of match engines.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein adjusting the plurality of allocations is implemented after a predetermined time period has elapsed since the plurality of allocations were determined.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein: adjusting the plurality of allocations is implemented, for each product group of the plurality of product groups, at a respective update frequency; a first product group of the plurality of product groups has a more dynamic market than a second product group of the plurality of product groups; and the respective update frequency of the first product group is higher than the respective update frequency of the second product group.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting, by the processor, the plurality of allocations upon occurrence of a trigger event.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing, by the processor, the allocation data, for a respective allocation of the plurality of allocations, to a further credit controller of the set of credit controllers as the electronic trading in the product group associated with the respective allocation moves to another match engine of the set of match engines.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of allocations comprises implementing, by the processor, a routine to predict a likelihood of future trading in each product group of the plurality of product groups.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 8, wherein the routine predicts the likelihood of future trading based on past trading of a market participant associated with the credit pool in each product group of the plurality of product groups.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 8, wherein the routine predicts the likelihood of future trading based on historical market data for the electronic trading in each product group of the plurality of product groups.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 8, wherein the routine comprises a machine learning routine.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 8, wherein the routine comprises a Bayesian probability routine.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the plurality of allocations comprises determining, by the processor, a plurality of initial allocations based on (i) an even distribution of the credit pool across the plurality of product groups, (ii) a distribution of the credit pool indicative of past trading activity in the plurality of product groups, (iii) user selection of the plurality of initial allocations, or (iv) a distribution of the credit pool in accordance with relative liquidity of each product group.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising updating, by the processor, the plurality of allocations in response to a user command to override the determined plurality of allocations.
15. A system for controlling use of a credit pool in connection with electronic trading in a plurality of product groups, the system comprising: a set of match engines disposed in a distributed network, in which each product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned to a respective match engine of the set of match engines; a set of credit controllers disposed in the distributed network, each credit controller of the set of credit controllers being disposed at a respective match engine of the set of match engines; a processor in communication with the set of match engines via the distributed network; a memory coupled with the processor; first logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the processor to obtain credit data indicative of current utilization of the credit pool; second logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the processor to determine, based on the credit data, a plurality of allocations of the credit pool across the plurality of product groups, such that each allocation of the plurality of allocations is directed to a respective product group of the plurality of product groups; and third logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the processor to provide, for each allocation of the plurality of allocations, allocation data indicative of the allocation to a respective credit controller of the set of credit controllers, the respective credit controller being disposed at a respective match engine of the set of match engines to which a respective product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned, wherein the allocation data configures the respective credit controller such that, in connection with an incoming order in the respective product group at the respective match engine, the use of the credit pool is limited, in accordance with the allocation data provided to the respective credit controller at the respective match engine, to a respective allocation of the plurality of allocations for the respective product group.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising fourth logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the processor to adjust the plurality of allocations based on trading activity since determining the plurality of allocations, wherein the third logic is further executable by the processor to cause the processor to provide, for each allocation of the plurality of allocations, further allocation data indicative of the plurality of adjusted allocations.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the third logic is further executable by the processor to cause the processor to provide, the allocation data, for a respective allocation of the plurality of allocations, to a further credit controller of the set of credit controllers as the electronic trading in the product group associated with the respective allocation moves to another match engine of the set of match engines.
18. The system of claim 15, further comprising fifth logic stored in the memory and executable by the processor to cause the processor to update the plurality of allocations in response to a user command to override the determined plurality of allocations.
19. A computer program product for controlling use of a credit pool in connection with electronic trading in a plurality of product groups via a set of match engines disposed in a distributed network, in which each product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned to a respective match engine of the set of match engines, the computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage media having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining credit data indicative of current utilization of the credit pool; determining, based on the credit data, a plurality of allocations of the credit pool across the plurality of product groups, such that each allocation of the plurality of allocations is directed to a respective product group of the plurality of product groups; and providing, for each allocation of the plurality of allocations, allocation data indicative of the allocation to a respective credit controller of a set of credit controllers disposed in the distributed network, the respective credit controller being disposed at a respective match engine of the set of match engines to which a respective product group of the plurality of product groups is assigned, wherein the allocation data configures the respective credit controller such that, in connection with an incoming order in the respective product group at the respective match engine, the use of the credit pool is limited, in accordance with the allocation data provided to the respective credit controller at the respective match engine, to a respective allocation of the plurality of allocations for the respective product group.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein determining the plurality of allocations comprises implementing a routine to predict a likelihood of future trading in each product group of the plurality of product groups.
21. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the routine predicts the likelihood of future trading based on (i) past trading of a market participant associated with the credit pool in each product group of the plurality of product groups, and (ii) historical market data for the electronic trading in each product group of the plurality of product groups.
</claims>
</document>
