<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
Jena, Suvendu Kumar
Chestnut, Theodore E.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING HIRING PRIORITIES
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for predicting hiring priorities. During operation, the system determines hiring features characterizing hiring activity by a company for a set of titles. Next, the system applies a first machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a first set of scores representing future hiring volumes and applies a second machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a second set of scores representing future hiring growth. The system then generates a first ranking of the titles by the first set of scores and a second ranking of the titles by the second set of scores. Finally, the system outputs at least a portion of the first ranking as a prediction of future hiring volumes by the company and at least a portion of the second ranking as a prediction of future hiring growth by the company.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining hiring features characterizing hiring activity by a company for a set of titles; applying, by one or more computer systems, a first machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a first set of scores representing future hiring volumes by the company for the set of titles; generating, by the one or more computer systems, a first ranking of the set of titles by the first set of scores; and outputting at least a portion of the first ranking as a first prediction of the future hiring volumes by the company for the set of titles.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying a second machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a second set of scores representing future hiring growth by the company for the set of titles; generating, by the one or more computer systems, a second ranking of the set of titles by the second set of scores; and outputting at least a portion of the second ranking as a second prediction of the future hiring growth by the company for the set of titles.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: applying the first and second machine learning models to company features for the company to produce the first and second sets of scores.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the company features comprise at least one of: a company identifier; a company size; a company name; a company age; a company type; a company industry; and a company location.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: aggregating metrics for characterizing the hiring activity of a set of companies for the set of titles into a number of clusters; selecting, from the metrics, the hiring features and labels for the first and second machine learning models based on patterns associated with the number of clusters; and inputting the hiring features and the labels for the set of companies as training data for the first and second machine learning models.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: generating the values of the hiring features from values of the metrics collected over a first time period; and generating the values of the labels from values of the metrics collected over a second time period following the first time period.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the values of the hiring features from the values of the metrics comprises: converting a numerical feature for the company and a title into a proportion of the numerical feature within the company.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the values of the hiring features from the values of the metrics comprises: converting a range of a numerical feature to a normalized range of 0 to 1.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein aggregating the metrics for characterizing the hiring activity of the set of companies for the set of titles into the number of clusters comprises: generating the number of clusters from the metrics for the set of companies associated with a company size and an industry.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating a recommendation related to hiring by the company based on the first or second sets of scores.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the recommendation comprises at least one of: a hiring strategy; a hiring budget; and a characteristic of a talent pool.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the hiring features comprise at least one of: a number of candidates that received hiring messages from the company; a number of hiring messages sent by the company; a number of hiring messages accepted by the candidates; a number of hiring messages rejected by the candidates; a number of hires made by the company; a number of applications for jobs at the company; a number of applicants for jobs at the company; a number of jobs posted by the company; and a growth in a hiring feature from a first period to a second period.
13. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: determine hiring features characterizing hiring activity by an entity for a set of talent pools; apply a first machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a first set of scores representing future hiring growth by the entity for the set of talent pools; generate a first ranking of the set of talent pools by the first set of scores; and output at least a portion of the first ranking as a first prediction of the future hiring growth by the entity.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: apply a second machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a second set of scores representing future hiring volumes by the entity for the set of talent pools; generate a second ranking of the set of talent pools by the second set of scores; and output at least a portion of the second ranking as a second prediction of the future hiring volumes by the entity.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: aggregate metrics for characterizing the hiring activity of a set of entities for the set of talent pools into a number of clusters; select, from the metrics, the hiring features and labels for the first and second machine learning models based on patterns associated with the number of clusters; and input the hiring features and the labels for the set of entities as training data for the first and second machine learning models.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the memory further stores instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the system to: generate the values of the hiring features from values of the metrics collected over a first time period; and generate the values of the labels from values of the metrics collected over a second time period following the first time period.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein generating the values of the hiring features from the values of the metrics comprises at least one of: converting a numerical feature for the entity and a talent pool into a proportion of the numerical feature within the entity; and converting a range of a numerical feature to a normalized range of 0 to 1.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of talent pools comprises at least one of: a title; a location; an industry; a seniority; a function; a company; and a company size.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the entity comprises at least one of: a company; a location; an industry; and a company size.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method, the method comprising: determining hiring features characterizing hiring activity by a company for a set of titles; applying a first machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a first set of scores representing future hiring volumes by the company for the set of titles; applying a second machine learning model to the hiring features to produce a second set of scores representing future hiring growth by the company for the set of titles; generating a first ranking of the set of titles by the first set of scores and a second ranking of the set of titles by the second set of scores; outputting at least a portion of the first ranking as a first prediction of the future hiring volumes by the company; and outputting at least a portion of the second ranking as a second prediction of the future hiring growth by the company.
</claims>
</document>
