<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/041,G06K9/00,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OAMI, RYOMA
YAMADA HIROSHI
KOYAMA KAZUYA
MIYANO, HIROYOSHI
TAKAHASHI YUSUKE
IKEDA, HIROO
OGAWA TAKUYA
KAWAI, RYO
EBIYAMA, YUKIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55162834
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, MONITORING SYSTEM, IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A state acquisition unit (2020) acquires a state of a monitoring target in a captured image captured by a camera (3040). A monitoring point acquisition unit (2040) acquires, from a monitoring point information storage unit (3020), a monitoring point corresponding to the state of the monitoring target acquired by the state acquisition unit (2020). The monitoring point indicates a position to be monitored in the captured image. A presentation unit (2060) presents the monitoring point on the captured image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-17. (canceled)
18. An image processing system including: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processor configured to execute the instructions to: present a predetermined monitoring point on a first captured image captured by a camera, wherein the predetermined monitoring point is corresponding to a state of a monitoring target in a captured image captured by the camera, the predetermined monitoring point indicating a position to be monitored that is a part of a facility captured by the camera, and being acquired from a storage storing a plurality of different associations between one of a plurality of states of the monitoring target and one of a plurality of monitoring points.
19. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: acquire a monitored position, which is a position monitored by an observer viewing a display screen on which the captured image is displayed, and present, on the first captured image, a monitoring point having a presentation location which is not at or around the monitored position on the display screen.
20. The image processing system according to claim 19, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: handle, as the monitored position, any one or more of: a position on the display screen corresponding to an eye gaze direction of the observer; a position on the display screen corresponding to a direction indicated by a finger or hand of the observer; and a position on the display screen touched by the observer.
21. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire a degree of congestion of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
22. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire a movement state of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
23. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire an alignment state of a queue as the state of the monitoring target.
24. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the storage further stores the state of the monitoring target and the monitoring point in association with schedule information, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire the monitoring point corresponding to the state of the monitoring target and schedule information corresponding to a time at which the captured image is captured.
25. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the storage further stores the state of the monitoring target and the monitoring point in association with weather information, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire the monitoring point corresponding to the state of the monitoring target and weather information indicating weather at a time of the captured image being captured.
26. The image processing system according to claim 18, wherein the storage further stores the state of the monitoring target and the monitoring point in association with a state of an event occurring at a place where the camera is installed, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to acquire the monitoring point corresponding to the state of the monitoring target and the state of the event at the time of the captured image being captured.
27. An image processing method performed by a computer, the method including: presenting a predetermined monitoring point on a first captured image captured by a camera, wherein the predetermined monitoring point is corresponding to a state of a monitoring target in a captured image captured by the camera, the predetermined monitoring point indicating a position to be monitored that is a part of a facility captured by the camera, and being acquired from a storage storing a plurality of different associations between one of a plurality of states of the monitoring target and one of a plurality of monitoring points.
28. The image processing method according to claim 27, wherein the method further includes: acquiring a monitored position, which is a position monitored by an observer viewing a display screen on which the captured image is displayed, and presenting, on the first captured image, a monitoring point having a presentation location which is not at or around the monitored position on the display screen.
29. The image processing method according to claim 28, wherein the method further includes: handling, as the monitored position, any one or more of: a position on the display screen corresponding to an eye gaze direction of the observer; a position on the display screen corresponding to a direction indicated by a finger or hand of the observer; and a position on the display screen touched by the observer.
30. The image processing method according to claim 27, wherein the method further includes acquiring a degree of congestion of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
31. The image processing method according to claim 27, wherein the method further includes acquiring a movement state of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
32. The image processing method according to claim 27, wherein the method further includes acquiring an alignment state of a queue as the state of the monitoring target.
33. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing programs causing a computer to perform: presenting a predetermined monitoring point on a first captured image captured by a camera, wherein the predetermined monitoring point is corresponding to a state of a monitoring target in a captured image captured by the camera, the predetermined monitoring point indicating a position to be monitored that is a part of a facility captured by the camera, and being acquired from a storage storing a plurality of different associations between one of a plurality of states of the monitoring target and one of a plurality of monitoring points.
34. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 33, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: acquire a monitored position, which is a position monitored by an observer viewing a display screen on which the captured image is displayed, and present, on the first captured image, a monitoring point having a presentation location which is not at or around the monitored position on the display screen.
35. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 34, wherein the programs further cause the computer to perform: handling, as the monitored position, any one or more of: a position on the display screen corresponding to an eye gaze direction of the observer; a position on the display screen corresponding to a direction indicated by a finger or hand of the observer; and a position on the display screen touched by the observer.
36. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 33, wherein the programs further cause the computer to perform acquiring a degree of congestion of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
37. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 33, wherein the programs further cause the computer to perform acquiring a movement state of a crowd as the state of the monitoring target.
</claims>
</document>
