<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/284,G06N3/04,G06N7/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIU, SHU
Dennen, Tristan
Bent, III, Sylvanus Garnet
Mai, Nam Hoang
Liang, Weikun
Fogla, Prahlad
Johnston, Sean Burroughs
Powell, Jamie Nicole
Schram, Maxwell
Gorantla, Siva Kumar
Shwert, Suzanna Whiteside
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69887896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING ADVERTISEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for dynamically analyzing and providing the quality of one or more content items at the time, or substantially close to the time, they are received by a data processing system. The systems and methods described herein can maintain and update the quality score for improving previously created content items after they have been published. The one or more content items can include one or more assets (e.g., one or more headlines, one or more descriptions, images, video, etc.). The data processing system can use numerical analysis methods to determine an overall quality (e.g., estimated clicks) of the content items received by the data processing system using a trained model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assessing content items using numerical criteria comprising: receiving, by an asset reception module, a plurality of text strings, each of the plurality of text strings comprising a token; receiving, by the asset reception module, a plurality of target keywords; retrieving, by an asset analysis module, one or more synonyms and one or more root words for each token in each of the plurality of text strings from a database; for each of the plurality of text strings: selecting, by the asset analysis module, a first text string from the plurality of text strings; determining, by the asset analysis module, the number of matching tokens in the first text string and the unselected text strings based on the number of tokens, the number of root words of the tokens, and the number of synonyms of the tokens; dividing, by the asset analysis module, the number of matching tokens by the number of tokens in the first text string to determine an asset mix value for the first text string; summing, by the asset analysis module, each of the asset mix values for each text string to calculate an overall asset mix value; determining, by the asset analysis module, a number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings using a category determination model; summing, by the asset analysis module, the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to calculate an overall categorical coverage value; retrieving, by the asset analysis module, an estimated traffic value for each of the plurality of target keywords; counting, by the asset analysis module, the number of occurrences of the selected target keyword in each of the plurality of text strings to generate a target keyword count associated with the respective target keyword; multiplying, by the asset analysis module, each of the target keyword counts with the estimated traffic value of the respective target keyword to calculate a weighted keyword value associated with the respective target keyword; summing, by the asset analysis module, each of the weighted keyword values to calculate a keyword coverage value; determining, by an asset scoring module, an overall content item score using a content scoring model, based on the number of text strings, the number of tokens in the text strings, the overall asset mix value, the overall categorical coverage value, and the overall keyword coverage value; and providing, by the asset scoring module to the content provider computing device, the overall content item score associated with the plurality of text strings and the plurality of target keywords.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the asset reception module, if the plurality of text strings exist at a location in the database, wherein the location is determined based on an identifier received from the content provider computing device; and storing, by the asset reception module, the plurality of text strings at the location in the database responsive to determining the plurality of text strings do not exist in the database based on the location;
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: storing, by the asset scoring module, the overall content item score in the database; retrieving, by the asset scoring module, a plurality of overall content item scores from the database, each of the overall content item scores associated with a plurality of text strings; sorting, by the asset scoring module, the plurality of overall content item scores to create a sorted list of content item scores; providing, by the asset scoring module to the content provider computing device, the sorted list of content item scores;
4. The method of claim 1, wherein summing the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to calculate an overall categorical coverage value further comprises: comparing, by the asset analysis module, the sum of the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to a first predefined threshold to create a first relationship; comparing, by the asset analysis module, the sum of the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to a second predefined threshold to create a second relationship; and calculating, by the asset analysis module, the categorical coverage value based on the first relationship and the second relationship.
5. The method of claim 1, summing each of the weighted keyword values to calculate the keyword coverage value further comprises: receiving, by the asset reception module from the content provider computing device, a target location; retrieving, by the asset analysis module, a plurality of location keywords associated with the target location; counting, by the asset analysis module, the number of occurrences of each of the plurality of location keywords in each of the plurality of text strings to generate a location keyword count associated with the respective location keyword; and summing, by the asset analysis module, each of the location keyword counts to calculate a location relevance value.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the overall content item score is based on the location relevance value.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the asset reception module from the content provider computing device, a first address, the first address associated with a landing page; accessing, by the asset analysis module, the landing page associated with the first address to retrieve a plurality of landing page tokens; and counting, by the asset analysis module, the number of tokens in the plurality of text strings that match the tokens in the plurality of landing page tokens to determine a landing page relevance value.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the overall content item score is based on the landing page relevance value.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the landing page relevance value further comprises: determining, by the asset analysis module, whether the landing page is a home page or a multi-product page; and determining, by the asset analysis module, the landing page relevance value based on the determination that the landing page is a home page or a multi-product page.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: determining, the asset analysis module, a number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings is based on a recurrent neural network model; and determining, the asset analysis module, the overall content item score using a content scoring model is based on a linear regression model.
11. A system of one or more processors, the processors configured to: receive, via a network, a plurality of text strings, each of the plurality of text strings comprising a token; receive, via a network, a plurality of target keywords; retrieve one or more synonyms and one or more root words for each token in each of the plurality of text strings from a database; for each of the plurality of text strings: select a first text string from the plurality of text strings; determine the number of matching tokens in the first text string and the unselected text strings based on the number of tokens, the number of root words of the tokens, and the number of synonyms of the tokens; divide the number of matching tokens by the number of tokens in the first text string to determine an asset mix value for the first text string; sum each of the asset mix values for each text string to calculate an overall asset mix value; determine a number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings using a category determination model; sum the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to calculate an overall categorical coverage value; retrieve an estimated traffic value for each of the plurality of target keywords; count the number of occurrences of the selected target keyword in each of the plurality of text strings to generate a target keyword count associated with the respective target keyword; multiply each of the target keyword counts with the estimated traffic value of the respective target keyword to calculate a weighted keyword value associated with the respective target keyword; sum each of the weighted keyword values to calculate a keyword coverage value; determine an overall content item score using a content scoring model, based on the number of text strings, the number of tokens in the text strings, the overall asset mix value, the overall categorical coverage value, and the overall keyword coverage value; and provide, via a network, the overall content item score associated with the plurality of text strings and the plurality of target keywords.
12. The system of claim 11, further configured to: identify if the plurality of text strings exist at a location in the database, wherein the location is determined based on an identifier received from the content provider computing device; and store the plurality of text strings at the location in the database responsive to determining the plurality of text strings do not exist in the database at the location.
13. The system of claim 12, further configured to: store the overall content item score in at the location in the database. retrieve a plurality of overall content item scores from the database, each of the plurality of overall content item scores associated with a plurality of text strings; sort the plurality of overall content item scores to create a sorted list of content item scores; provide, to the content provider computing device, the sorted list of content item scores;
14. The system of claim 11, further configured to: compare the sum of the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to a first predefined threshold to create a first relationship; compare the sum of the number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings to a second predefined threshold to create a second relationship; and calculate the categorical coverage value based on the first relationship and the second relationship.
15. The system of claim 11, further configured to: receive, via a network, a target location; retrieve a plurality of location keywords associated with the target location from the database; count the number of occurrences of each of the plurality of location keywords in each of the plurality of text strings to generate a location keyword count associated with the respective location keyword; and sum each of the location keyword counts to calculate a location relevance value.
16. The system of claim 15, further configured to: determine the overall content item score based on the location relevance value.
17. The system of claim 11, further configured to: receive, via a network, a first address, the first address associated with a landing page; access the landing page associated with the first address to retrieve a plurality of landing page tokens; and count the number of tokens in the plurality of text strings that match the tokens in the plurality of landing page tokens to determine a landing page relevance value.
18. The system of claim 17, further configured to: determine the overall content item score based on the location relevance value.
19. The system of claim 17, further configured to: determine whether the landing page is a home page or a multi-product page; and calculate the landing page relevance value based on the determination that the landing page is a home page or a multi-product page.
20. The system of claim 11, further configured to: determine a number of categories for each of the plurality of text strings is based on a recurrent neural network model; and determine the overall content item score using a content scoring model is based on a linear regression model.
</claims>
</document>
