<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/211,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VIZIRECRUITER
</assignee>

<inventors>
O'CONNOR JOSEPH J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097437
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CREATION OF VISUAL JOB ADVERTISEMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to a system and method for creating a job advertisement. The job advertisement includes visual information which is presented an in organized, easily digestible manner. An example system according to the present disclosure includes, among other things, a first computing device a second computing device in communication with the first computing device. The second computing device is configured to receive an input of text describing a job from the first computing device and create a job advertisement including at least one image representative of at least a portion of the text.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for creating a job advertisement, comprising: a first computing device; and a second computing device in communication with the first computing device, wherein the second computing device comprises a memory storing instructions that, when executed by a processor of the second computing device, causes the second computing device to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving, from the first computing device, an input of text including a plurality of sentences describing a job; identifying keywords within the plurality of sentences by comparing the input of text with a predefined table of keywords; from the plurality of sentences, grouping all sentences having a first common keyword into a first sentence group and all sentences having a second common keyword into a second sentence group; assigning an image to each of the first sentence group and the second sentence group, each of the assigned images being representative of the first common keyword and the second common keyword, respectively; creating a job advertisement containing a first and second block, wherein the first block comprises (1) the first common keyword, (2) the sentences having the first common keyword grouped into the first sentence group, and (3) the image assigned to the first sentence group, wherein the second block comprises (1) the second common keyword, (2) the sentences having the second common keyword grouped into the second sentence group, and (3) the image assigned to the second sentence group; hosting a job advertisement such that the job advertisement is accessible via the Internet; and organizing the content of the job advertisement based on personal characteristics of a target candidate.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: presenting the content of the job advertisement to a first user with a first set of personal characteristics in a first manner, and presenting the content of the job advertisement to a second user with a second set of personal characteristics in a second manner different than the first manner.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, further comprising: updating the job advertisement based on information indicative of the manner in which a candidate interacted with the job advertisement.
4. The system as recited in claim 3, further comprising: updating the job advertisement based on information indicative of a personal characteristic of the candidate.
5. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the first common keyword and the second common keyword is (1) one of the identified keywords and (2) located in each respective sentence before any other keywords of the identified keywords within the respective sentence, wherein at least one sentence from each of the first sentence group and the second sentence group contains a plurality of keywords that are each of the identified keywords.
6. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the table of keywords includes similar keywords.
7. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein sentences including no keywords are not included in any sentence group.
8. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the second computing device is a server.
9. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the second computing device includes or is in communication with a neural network.
10. The system as recited in claim 8, wherein the first computing device includes a personal computer, a laptop, a tablet, or a mobile device.
11. A method for creating a job advertisement, comprising: receiving, by a second computing device from a first computing device, an input of text describing a job, the text including a plurality of sentences; identifying, by the second computing device, keywords within the plurality of sentences by comparing the input of text with a predefined table of keywords; from the plurality of sentences, grouping, by the second computing device, all sentences having a first common keyword into a first sentence group and all sentences having a second common keyword into a second sentence group; assigning, by the second computing device, an image to each of the first sentence group and the second sentence group, each of the assigned images representative of the first common keyword and the second common keyword, respectively; creating, by the second computing device, a job advertisement, the job advertisement containing a first and second block, wherein the first block comprises (1) the first common keyword, (2) the sentences having the first common keyword grouped into the first sentence group, and (3) the image assigned to the first sentence group, wherein the second block comprises (1) the second common keyword, (2) the sentences having the second common keyword grouped into the second sentence group, and (3) the image assigned to the second sentence group; hosting, by the second computing device, the job advertisement such that the job advertisement is accessible via the Internet; and organizing the content of the job advertisement based on personal characteristics of a target candidate.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising: presenting the content of the job advertisement to a first user with a first set of personal characteristics in a first manner, and presenting the content of the job advertisement to a second user with a second set of personal characteristics in a second manner different than the first manner.
13. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising: updating the job advertisement based on information indicative of the manner in which a candidate interacted with the job advertisement.
14. The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising: updating the job advertisement based on information indicative of a personal characteristic of the candidate.
15. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the first common keyword and the second common keyword is (1) one of the identified keywords and (2) located in each respective sentence before any other keywords of the identified keywords within the respective sentence, wherein at least one sentence from each of the first sentence group and the second sentence group contains a plurality of keywords that are each of the identified keywords.
16. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein sentences including no keywords are not included in any sentence group.
17. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the second computing device is a server.
18. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein the second computing device includes or is in communication with a neural network.
19. The method as recited in claim 17, wherein the server receives the input of text from one of a personal computer, a laptop, a tablet, and a mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
