<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L12/721
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
REHMAN, ATAUR
GUPTA, GOPAL
Mishra, Abhinesh
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917392
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UPLINK SELECTION IN A SD-WAN
</title>

<abstract>
An example non-transitory, computer-readable medium includes instructions that cause a device to determine, for uplinks of a branch gateway, a link health baseline. The instructions further cause the device to determine, for a set of criticality classes, a class link health baseline for each link health baseline, based on the link health baseline and a tolerance level of each criticality class. The instructions further cause the device to calculate, based in part on weighted parameters of the class link health baselines and an uplink cost, a path quality threshold score for each application category and for each uplink. The instructions further cause the device to select, for each application category, a primary uplink and a secondary uplink based on the path quality threshold scores. The instructions further cause the device to route network traffic through the primary uplink of the application category assigned to the network traffic.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/We claim:
1. A network orchestrator, comprising: processing circuitry; and a memory including instructions that, when executed by the processing circuitry, cause the network orchestrator to: classify each application category of a set of applications transmitting data across a software defined wide area network (SD-WAN) as one of a set of criticality classes; determine link health baselines for each uplink of a plurality of uplinks of a branch gateway; for each criticality class of the set of criticality classes, determine a class link health baseline for each uplink of the plurality of uplinks based, in part, on a tolerance level; calculate, based in part on the class link health baselines and an uplink cost, a path quality threshold score for each application category of the set of applications and for each uplink of the plurality of uplinks; for each application category of the set of applications, select a primary uplink and a secondary uplink from the plurality of uplinks based on the path quality threshold scores; route network traffic through the primary uplink of the application category assigned to the network traffic.
2. The network orchestrator of claim 1, wherein the link health baselines are determined based on measured link health information, and wherein measurements when uplink bandwidth utilization is greater than a threshold are not included in the link health information.
3. The network orchestrator of claim 1, wherein tolerance levels are provided to the network orchestrator by a network administrator for each criticality class of the set of criticality classes.
4. The network orchestrator of claim 3, wherein a tolerance level of a criticality class is multiplied by parameters of a link health baseline of an uplink to calculate a class link health baseline for the criticality class on the uplink.
5. The network orchestrator of claim 1, further including instructions to cause the network orchestrator to generate a SD-WAN flow for each application category of the set of applications and transmit the each SD-WAN flow to the SD-WAN.
6. The network orchestrator of claim 5, wherein each SD-WAN flow instructs the SD-WAN to route traffic for each application category through the respective primary uplink of the each application category.
7. A method, comprising: determining, based on packets transmitted across a software defined wide area network (SD-WAN), a set of applications used on the SD-WAN; classifying each application category of the set of applications in a criticality class of a set of criticality classes; determining, for each uplink of a plurality of uplinks of a branch gateway, a link health baseline; determining, for each criticality class of the set of criticality classes and for each uplink of the plurality of uplinks, a class link health baseline based, in part, on a tolerance level of the each criticality class; calculating, based in part on weighted parameters of the class link health baselines and an uplink cost, a path quality threshold score for each application category of the set of applications and for each uplink of the plurality of uplinks; selecting, for each application category of the set of applications, a primary uplink and a secondary uplink from the plurality of uplinks based on the path quality threshold scores; routing network traffic through the primary uplink of the application category assigned to the network traffic.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the determining a set of applications used includes providing packets transmitted across the SD-WAN to a deep packet inspection (DPI) service.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the DPI service provides an application name and an application category in response to the packets transmitted across the SD-WAN.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the link health baselines are determined based on measured link health information, and wherein measurements when uplink bandwidth utilization is greater than a threshold are not included in the link health information.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein a tolerance level of a criticality class is multiplied by parameters of a link health baseline of an uplink to determine a class link health baseline for the criticality class on the uplink.
12. The method of claim 7, further including generating a SD-WAN flow for each application category of the set of applications and transmitting the each SD-WAN flow to the SD-WAN.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each SD-WAN flow instructs the SD-WAN to route traffic for each application category through the respective primary uplink of the each application category.
14. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by processing circuitry, cause a device to: determine, for each uplink of a plurality of uplinks of a branch gateway, a link health baseline; determine, for each criticality class of a set of criticality classes, a class link health baseline for each link health baseline, based on the each link health baseline and a tolerance level of the each criticality class; calculate, based in part on weighted parameters of the class link health baselines and an uplink cost, a path quality threshold score for each application category of a set of applications and for each uplink of the plurality of uplinks; select, for each application category of the set of applications, a primary uplink and a secondary uplink from the plurality of uplinks based on the path quality threshold scores; route network traffic through the primary uplink of the application category assigned to the network traffic.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, further causing the device to: determine, based on packets transmitted across a software defined wide area network (SD-WAN) the set of applications; and classify each application category of the set of applications in a criticality class of a set of criticality classes.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining a set of applications used includes providing packets transmitted across the SD-WAN to a deep packet inspection (DPI) service.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein tolerance levels are provided to the network orchestrator by a network administrator for each criticality class of the set of criticality classes.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein a tolerance level of a criticality class is multiplied by parameters of a link health baseline of an uplink to calculate a class link health baseline for the criticality class on the uplink.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 14, further causing the device to: generate a SD-WAN flow for each application category of the set of applications; and transmit the each SD-WAN flow to the SD-WAN.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein each SD-WAN flow instructs the SD-WAN to route traffic for each application category through the respective primary uplink of the each application category.
</claims>
</document>
