<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/30,H01J37/32,H01L21/683,H01L21/687
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRIMINALE, PHILLIP A.
VISHWANATH, YOGANANDA SARODE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746144
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTOR FOR PROCESS KIT RING WEAR
</title>

<abstract>
A diagnostic disc includes a disc body having a sidewall around a circumference of the disc body and at least one protrusion extending outwardly from a top of the sidewall. A non-contact sensor is attached to an underside of each of the at least one protrusion. A a printed circuit board (PCB) is positioned within an interior formed by the disc body. Circuitry is disposed on the PCB and coupled to each non-contact sensor, the circuitry including at least a wireless communication circuit, a memory, and a battery. A cover is positioned over the circuitry inside of the sidewall, wherein the cover seals the circuitry within the interior formed by the disc body from an environment outside of the disc body.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: acquiring sensor data of a top surface of a process kit ring disposed within a processing chamber using at least one non-contact sensor, wherein at least a portion of the process kit ring is within a field of view of the at least one non-contact sensor; analyzing, by a computing system, the sensor data to determine a degree of erosion of the top surface of the process kit ring; and in response to determining that the degree of erosion meets an end-of-life threshold, initiating automated replacement of the process kit ring.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising placing, using an end effector of a robot arm within a transfer chamber, a diagnostic disc into the processing chamber, wherein the at least one non-contact sensor is a component of the diagnostic disc, and wherein the at least one non-contact sensor of the diagnostic disc is positioned over the process kit ring.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining that the process kit ring in the processing chamber is due for a diagnostic scan based on a number of hours of operation of the processing chamber; loading the diagnostic disc from a storage area into a load lock of a substrate processing system that comprises the transfer chamber; and moving the diagnostic disc from the load lock to the processing chamber.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising, in response to determining that the degree of erosion does not meet the end-of-life threshold: moving the diagnostic disc back to the storage area; and continuing with substrate processing for an additional number of hours before acquiring new sensor data of the top surface of the process kit ring.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: raising multiple wafer lift pins of a substrate support assembly in the processing chamber, wherein the multiple wafer lift pins are configured to handle wafers; setting the diagnostic disc on the wafer lift pins before generating the sensor data; and lowering the wafer lift pins to set the diagnostic disc on an electrostatic chuck of the substrate support assembly before generating the sensor data, wherein a gap exists between the at least one non-contact sensor and the process kit ring.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising wirelessly transmitting, using a wireless communication circuit connected to the at least one non-contact sensor, the sensor data to the computing system.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data comprises image data, and wherein analyzing the sensor data comprises applying one of an image processing algorithm or a trained machine learning model to the sensor data that determines the degree of erosion along the top surface of the process kit ring.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein initiating automated process kit ring replacement comprises: removing the process kit ring from the processing chamber using an end effector of a robot arm within a transfer chamber; and inserting a new process kit ring into the processing chamber using the end effector of the robot arm.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein inserting the new process kit ring comprises: loading the new process kit ring on the end effector with a fixed two-dimensional offset; and lowering the new process kit ring onto an electrostatic chuck of the processing chamber while correcting for the fixed two-dimensional offset to center the process kit ring on the electrostatic chuck.
10. A diagnostic disc comprising: a disc body comprising a sidewall around a circumference of the disc body and at least one protrusion extending outwardly from a top of the sidewall; a non-contact sensor attached to an underside of each of the at least one protrusion; a printed circuit board (PCB) positioned within an interior formed by the disc body; circuitry disposed on the PCB and coupled to each non-contact sensor, the circuitry comprising at least a wireless communication circuit, a memory, and a battery; and a cover positioned over the circuitry inside of the sidewall, wherein the cover seals the circuitry within the interior formed by the disc body from an environment outside of the disc body.
11. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein the at least one protrusion comprises four protrusions positioned around the disc body and approximately perpendicular to the sidewall.
12. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein a diameter of the disc body is approximately 11.5 inches to 12.25 inches, and wherein each of the at least one protrusion protrudes by about ten percent of the diameter such that an area from between approximately 6.5 inches and 6.75 inches from a center of the disc body is within a field of view of the non-contact sensor.
13. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein each non-contact sensor is positioned on a respective protrusion such that a vertical distance between the non-contact sensor and a bottom of the disc body displaces the non-contact sensor from a surface that the diagnostic disc is placed upon, and wherein a height of the sidewall is between about 0.350 inches and about 0.450 inches.
14. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein the disc body and the cover are comprised of one of carbon fiber or aluminum with a coating made of one or anodized aluminum, ceramic, or yttria.
15. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein the non-contact sensor comprises a depth camera having a zoom of at least four times magnification.
16. The diagnostic disc of claim 10, wherein the disc body comprises multiple kinematic couplings disposed on a bottom surface, the multiple kinematic couplings each to receive a wafer lift pin of an electrostatic chuck within a processing chamber and to provide a low contact area between the diagnostic disc and the electrostatic chuck.
17. A processing chamber comprising: a chamber body; a source lid coupled to a top of the chamber body, wherein the chamber body and the source lid together enclose an interior volume; a substrate support assembly disposed within the interior volume, the substrate support assembly comprising a chuck configured to support a substrate in a fixed position during processing of the substrate; an edge ring disposed around a circumference of the chuck, wherein at least one of the chamber body or the source lid define an opening at a location that is at least one of above or to a side of the edge ring; a non-contact sensor positioned within the opening and within a line of sight of the edge ring, wherein at least a portion of the edge ring is within a field of view of the non-contact sensor; a plasma-resistant lens or window disposed at the opening and separating the non-contact sensor from the interior volume, wherein the plasma-resistant lens or window is to protect the non-contact sensor from corrosive gases in the interior volume; and a computing device operatively coupled to the non-contact sensor, wherein the computing device is to: receive sensor data of a top surface of the edge ring from the non-contact sensor; analyze the sensor data to determine a degree of erosion of the top surface of the edge ring; and in response to a determination that the degree of erosion meets an end-of-life threshold, initiate automated replacement of the edge ring.
18. The processing chamber of claim 17, wherein the non-contact sensor is a camera that is vacuum sealed by the plasma-resistant lens.
19. The processing chamber of claim 17, further comprising a plasma resistant liner that lines at least a sidewall of the chamber body, wherein the plasma resistant liner comprises an additional opening that approximately lines up with the opening in the sidewall of the chamber body, the opening and the additional opening defining an endpoint window for the processing chamber, and wherein at least a portion of the non-contact sensor is disposed within the additional opening.
20. The processing chamber of claim 17, further comprising a gas nozzle disposed within the opening in the source lid, the gas nozzle comprising an additional opening that has a smaller diameter than the opening, wherein the non-contact sensor is disposed within the additional opening, and wherein a front of the non-contact sensor is approximately flush with an inside surface of the source lid.
21. The processing chamber of claim 17, further comprising circuitry coupled to the non-contact sensor and to a computing system, the circuitry to transmit sensor data from the non-contact sensor to the computing system, wherein the sensor data comprises information about a roughness of a top surface of the edge ring.
</claims>
</document>
