<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F25D29/00,G05B13/02,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JUNG, JIN HOON
HWANG, SUNG MOK
KWON, YOUNG TAG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63522422
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR GENERATING SCHEDULE DATA BASED ON ACTION DATA, AND SERVER AND REFRIGERATOR FOR IMPLEMENTING THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a method for generating schedule data based on action data, and a server and a refrigerator implementing the same. The method for generating schedule data based on action data according to an embodiment of the present invention includes, in a refrigerator including one or more divided storage spaces, a step of a storage unit of the refrigerator storing pattern base data including action data performed by the refrigerator and time data, a step of a communication unit of the refrigerator receiving a first learning data set from a server, a step of a schedule generation unit of the refrigerator generating first schedule data including predicted action data of the refrigerator and time data of the predicted action data by mapping a first learning data set to the pattern base data, and a step of a control unit of the refrigerator controlling an action of the refrigerator based on the first schedule data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating operation schedule data for a refrigerator, the method comprising: storing, in a storage unit of the refrigerator, first usage storing pattern base data that includes operation data performed by the refrigerator or a user and time data corresponding to the operation data; receiving, by a communication unit of the refrigerator, a first learning data set from a server; generating first operation schedule data during a first prediction unit period, the first operation schedule data including first predicted usage data of the refrigerator and first predicted time data corresponding to the first predicted usage data, wherein generating the first operation schedule data comprises mapping the first learning data set to the first usage pattern base data; and controlling, by a control unit of the refrigerator, operation of the refrigerator based on the first operation schedule data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the communication unit, second usage pattern base data generated during an upload unit period to the server.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the communication unit, a second learning data set different from the first learning data set from the server; and generating second operation schedule data during a second prediction unit period, wherein generating the second operation schedule data comprises mapping the second learning data set to at least a part of the first usage pattern base data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first prediction unit period of the first operation schedule data and the second prediction unit period of the second operation schedule data are different from each other.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, in the storage unit, the first usage pattern base data generated during a learning unit period and second usage pattern base data generated after the learning unit period; and generating third operation schedule data that includes second predicted operation data of the refrigerator and second predicted time data corresponding to the second predicted operation data, wherein generating the third operation schedule data comprises: mapping the first learning data set to a part of the first usage pattern base data, and mapping the first learning data set to a part of the second usage pattern base data based on mapping the first leaning data set to the part of the first usage pattern base data.
6. A refrigerator configured to generate operation schedule data, the refrigerator comprising: a storage unit configured to store first usage pattern base data that include operation data performed by the refrigerator or a user during a learning unit period and time data corresponding to the operation data; a communication unit configured to receive first learning data set from a server and to transmit second usage pattern base data generated during an upload unit period to the server; and a control unit configured to: generate the first usage pattern base data, based on mapping the first learning data set to the first usage pattern base data, generate first operation schedule data during a first prediction unit period, the first operation schedule data including first predicted operation data and first predicted time data corresponding to the first predicted operation data, and control the storage unit to store the first usage pattern base data, and the first operation schedule data, and control operation of the refrigerator according to the first operation schedule data.
7. The refrigerator of claim 6, wherein the communication unit is configured to receive a second learning data set different from the first learning data set from the server, and wherein the control unit is configured to generate second operation schedule data during a second prediction unit period based on mapping the second learning data set to at least a part or all of the first usage pattern base data.
8. The refrigerator of claim 7, wherein the first prediction unit period of the first operation schedule data and the second prediction unit period of the second operation schedule data are different from each other.
9. The refrigerator of claim 6, wherein the storage unit is configured to store the first usage pattern base data generated during the learning unit period and the second usage pattern base data generated after the learning unit period, and wherein the control unit is configured to: based on (i) mapping the first learning data set to a part of the first usage pattern base data and (ii) mapping the first learning data set to a part of the second usage pattern base data after mapping the first leaning data set to the part of the first usage pattern base data, generate third operation schedule data that include second predicted operation data of the refrigerator and second predicted time data corresponding to the second predicted operation data.
10. A method for generating operation schedule data for a refrigerator, the method comprising: receiving, by a communication unit of a server, first usage pattern base data from two or more refrigerators during a learning unit period, the first usage pattern base data including operation data performed by the two or more refrigerators or one or more users and time data corresponding to the operation data; inputting the first usage pattern base data to a processor of the server; generating a first temporary learning data set corresponding to the first usage pattern base data, wherein generating the first temporary learning data set comprises updating at least a part of a first learning data set included in the server based on the first usage pattern base data; generating a second learning data set based on the first temporary learning data set, wherein generating the second learning data set comprises receiving second usage pattern base data from the two or more refrigerator, inputting of the second usage pattern base data to the processor, and generating a second temporary learning data set corresponding to the second usage pattern base data; and transmitting, by the communication unit, the second learning data set to the two or more refrigerators to allow each of the two or more refrigerators to generate operation schedule data based on the second learning data set during a prediction unit period, the operation schedule data including predicted operation data and predicted time data corresponding to the predicted operation data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first learning data set includes: a first processing layer including one or more first nodes, each first node having a first output value generated during the learning unit period based on one or more values selected from the second usage pattern base data; and one or more first links that are configured to generate the first output value based on applying at least one of a first weight factor or a first bias to the one or more values selected from the second usage pattern base data; and wherein generating the first temporary learning data set comprises generating the first temporary learning data set based on adding a node or link to the first learning data set or removing a node or line from the first learning data set.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the each of the first learning data set and the first temporary learning data set further includes: a second processing layer including one or more second nodes, each second node having a second output value generated based on one or more values selected from the first output values of the one or more first nodes; and one or more second links that connect the first processing layer and the second processing layer and that are configured to generate the second output value based on applying at least one of a second weight factor or a second bias to the one or more values selected from the first output values of the one or more first nodes.
13. 13-15. (canceled)
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation data comprise at least one of: data representing one or more operation modes performed by the refrigerator, or data representing whether or not the refrigerator has performed a load response, and wherein the time data comprise at least one of: data representing a number of times in which a door of the refrigerator has been opened or closed within a unit time period, or data representing a number of times in which the refrigerator has operated according to an operation mode among the one or more operation modes within the unit time period.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the operation data further comprise data representing operations of one or more components of the refrigerator, and wherein the time data further comprise one or more time points corresponding to the operations of the one or more components of the refrigerator.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the first learning data set comprises a weight factor and a bias, and wherein mapping the first learning data set to the first usage pattern base data comprises at least one of: multiplying at least a part of the first usage pattern base data by the weight factor, or adding the bias to at least the part of the first usage pattern base data.
19. The refrigerator of claim 6, wherein the operation data comprise at least one of: data representing one or more operation modes performed by the refrigerator, or data representing whether or not the refrigerator has performed a load response, and wherein the time data comprise at least one of: data representing a number of times in which a door of the refrigerator has been opened or closed within a unit time period, or data representing a number of times in which the refrigerator has operated according to an operation mode among the one or more operation modes within the unit time period.
20. The refrigerator of claim 19, wherein the operation data further comprise data representing operations of one or more components of the refrigerator, and wherein the time data further comprise one or more time points corresponding to the operations of the one or more components of the refrigerator.
21. The refrigerator of claim 6, wherein the control unit comprises a schedule generation module configured to, based on mapping the first learning data set to the first usage pattern base data, generate the first operation schedule data during the first prediction unit period.
22. The method of claim 10, wherein the operation data comprise at least one of: data representing one or more operation modes performed by the refrigerator, or data representing whether or not the refrigerator has performed a load response, and wherein the time data comprise at least one of: data representing a number of times in which a door of the refrigerator has been opened or closed within a unit time period, or data representing a number of times in which the refrigerator has operated according to an operation mode among the one or more operation modes within the unit time period.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the operation data further comprise data representing operations of one or more components of each of the two or more refrigerators, and wherein the time data further comprise one or more time points corresponding to the operations of the one or more components of each of the two or more refrigerators.
</claims>
</document>
