<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K35/00,H04L12/28,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
VISSER, ERIK
GUO, YINYI
CHOUDHARY, RAVI
SAKI, FATEMEH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70334087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD TO VIEW OCCUPANT STATUS AND MANAGE DEVICES OF BUILDING
</title>

<abstract>
A device to provide information to a visual interface that is mountable to a vehicle dashboard includes a memory configured to store device information indicative of controllable devices of a building and occupant data indicative of one or more occupants of the building. The device includes a processor configured to receive, in real-time, status information associated with the one or more occupants of the building. The status information includes at least one of dynamic location information or dynamic activity information. The processor is configured to generate an output to provide, at the visual interface device, a visual representation of at least a portion of the building and the status information associated with the one or more occupants. The processor is also configured to generate an instruction to adjust an operation of one or more devices of the controllable devices based on user input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device to provide information to a visual interface device that is mountable to a vehicle dashboard, the device comprising: a memory configured to store device information indicative of controllable devices of a building and occupant data indicative of one or more occupants of the building; and a processor configured to: receive, in real-time, status information associated with the one or more occupants of the building, the status information including at least one of dynamic location information or dynamic activity information; generate an output to provide, at the visual interface device, a visual representation of at least a portion of the building and the status information associated with the one or more occupants; and generate an instruction to adjust an operation of one or more devices of the controllable devices based on user input.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor, the memory, and the visual interface device are integrated into a vehicle dashboard device.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the status information further includes at least one of an age or an emotional status of at least one of the occupants.
4. The device of claim 1, further comprising a speech recognition engine configured to receive an audio signal corresponding to audible user speech and to translate the audio signal into the user input.
5. The device of claim 4, further comprising a microphone coupled to the speech recognition engine and configured to capture the audible user speech and to generate the audio signal.
6. The device of claim 1, further comprising a gesture recognition unit configured to receive a sensor signal corresponding to a user gesture and to translate the sensor signal into the user input.
7. The device of claim 6, further comprising at least one of a camera, an infrared sensor, or an ultrasonic sensor coupled to the gesture recognition unit and configured to capture the user gesture and to generate the sensor signal.
8. The device of claim 1, further comprising a touch recognition unit configured to receive a touch detection signal corresponding to a user touch and to translate the touch detection signal into the user input.
9. The device of claim 8, further comprising a touchscreen coupled to the touch recognition unit and configured to display the visual representation and to generate the touch detection signal.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether a user of the device is an authorized user and to selectively restrict control of the controllable devices based on the determination of whether the user is an authorized user.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether a user of the device is an authorized user and to selectively restrict access to at least a portion of the status information based on the determination of whether the user is an authorized user.
12. The device of claim 1, further comprising a transmitter coupled to the processor and configured to transmit the instruction to the one or more devices.
13. The device of claim 1, wherein the instruction includes at least one of an instruction to cause a climate control device in the building to adjust a temperature, an instruction to adjust a lighting level in at least one room of the building, or an instruction to adjust playback settings of an entertainment system in the building.
14. A method for providing information associated with occupants of a building, the method comprising: receiving, in real-time at a dashboard device, status information associated with one or more occupants of the building, the status information including at least one of dynamic location information or dynamic activity information; generating, at a visual interface of the dashboard device, a visual representation of at least a portion of the building and of the status information associated with the one or more occupants; receiving, at the dashboard device, user input related to control of one or more controllable devices of the building; and generating, at the dashboard device, an instruction to adjust an operation of the one or more controllable devices based on the user input.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the user input is received via a speech recognition operation.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the user input is received via at least one of a gesture recognition operation or a touch detection operation.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining whether a user of the dashboard device is an authorized user; and selectively restricting at least one of control of the controllable devices or access to at least a portion of the status information based on whether the user is an authorized user.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the status information further includes at least one of an age or an emotional status of at least one of the occupants, wherein the status information indicates that a first occupant is happy and watching television in a living room and that a second occupant is awake and lying in a bed in a bedroom, wherein the user input includes an instruction from the user to lower a volume of the television, and wherein the instruction is transmitted to the television to cause the television to lower the volume.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the dashboard device is in a vehicle, and wherein generating the visual representation includes, in response to the vehicle having a single occupant and the single occupant being an authorized user, incorporating the status information and information regarding the controllable devices, without restriction, into the visual representation.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the dashboard device is integrated into a dashboard of a vehicle, and wherein generating the visual representation includes, in response to the vehicle having a single occupant and the single occupant being an unauthorized user, omitting the status information and omitting information regarding controllable devices in non-public areas from the visual representation.
21. The method of claim 14, wherein the dashboard device is integrated into a dashboard of a vehicle, and wherein generating the visual representation includes, in response to the vehicle having multiple occupants and the vehicle being in an emergency situation, incorporating the status information and information regarding the controllable devices, without restriction, into the visual representation.
22. The method of claim 14, wherein the dashboard device is integrated into a dashboard of a vehicle, and wherein generating the visual representation includes, in response to the vehicle having multiple occupants and the vehicle not being in an emergency situation, holographically displaying different screens for different occupants.
23. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, in real-time, status information associated with one or more occupants of the building, the status information including at least one of dynamic location information or dynamic activity information; generate an output for a visual interface device to provide a visual representation of at least a portion of the building and the status information associated with the one or more occupants; receive user input regarding control of one or more controllable devices of the building; and generate an instruction to adjust an operation of the one or more controllable devices based on the user input.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the dynamic activity information indicates an activity associated with each of the one or more occupants, and wherein the dynamic location information indicates a location within the building of the one or more occupants.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the user input is received via at least one of a speech recognition operation, a gesture recognition operation or a touch detection operation.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine whether a user is an authorized user; and selectively restrict at least one of control of the controllable devices or access to at least a portion of the status information based on whether the user is an authorized user.
27. An apparatus to perform operations to provide information about occupants of a building, the apparatus comprising: means for receiving, in real-time, status information associated with one or more occupants of the building, the status information including at least one of dynamic location information or dynamic activity information; means for providing a visual representation of at least a portion of the building and the status information associated with the one or more occupants; means for receiving user input regarding control of one or more controllable devices of the building; and means for generating an instruction to adjust an operation of the one or more controllable devices based on the user input.
28. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the user input is received via a means for performing a speech recognition operation.
29. The apparatus of claim 27, wherein the user input is received via at least one of a means for performing a gesture recognition operation or a means for performing a touch detection operation.
30. The apparatus of claim 27, further comprising means for selectively restricting at least one of control of the controllable devices or access to at least a portion of the status information based on whether a user is an authorized user.
</claims>
</document>
