<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06K9/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKARA, Syusaku
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68618021
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHARACTER RECOGNITION PROGRAM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A method disclosed herein uses a processor of a server to function as a processing unit to enhance accuracy of character recognition in a terminal connected to the server, using a communication apparatus of the server. The processing unit may be configured to acquire first data indicating a result of character recognition with respect to image data taken by the terminal. The processing unit can determine a character type of a character included in the image data when it is determined that misrecognition is included in the result of character recognition based on the first data. The processing unit controls the communication apparatus to transmit second data according to the character type to terminal and instructs the terminal to perform character recognition using the second data with respect to the image data in order to improve the accuracy of character recognition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for using a processor in a first apparatus communicated to a second apparatus as a processing unit for increasing accuracy of character recognition in the second apparatus, the method comprising: receiving, in the first apparatus, a result of character recognition from the second apparatus; acquiring, from the second apparatus, first data indicating the result of character recognition with respect to image data measured by the second apparatus; determining, by the processor and based on the first data, whether the result of character recognition from the second apparatus includes misrecognition; and upon a determination that the result includes misrecognition: determining, by the processor, a character type of a character included in the image data; transmitting, from the first apparatus to the second apparatus, second data according to the character type; and instructing, by use of the second data, the second apparatus to perform another character recognition on the image data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting, from the first apparatus to the second apparatus, the second data according to the character type is performed in a communication apparatus of the first apparatus.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first apparatus and the second apparatus are connected via a network, and the first apparatus is a server and the second apparatus is a terminal.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising upon a determination that the result does not include misrecognition, transmitting to the second apparatus a notification information.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data includes a recognition rate.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the character type includes one of numbers, alphabets, Latin characters, hiragana, katakana, Chinese characters, or a combination thereof.
7. A method for causing a processor in a first apparatus including a communication apparatus to function as a processing unit for improving accuracy of character recognition in a second apparatus, the method comprising: acquiring first data indicating a result of character recognition with respect to image data in the second apparatus; determining, in the processor of the first apparatus, a range of misrecognition in the image data based on the first data; acquiring, in the second apparatus, partial image data corresponding to the range of misrecognition in the image data; and performing, in the second apparatus, another character recognition on the partial image data.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising: determining, in the processor of the first apparatus, a recognition rate of the character recognition based on the first data; acquiring, in the first apparatus and from the second apparatus, the image data when the recognition rate is equal to or less than a threshold; and performing, in the first apparatus, character recognition with regard to the image data.
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the first apparatus is a server, the second apparatus is a terminal, and the server and the terminal are connected via a network.
10. A method for using a processor provided in a first apparatus to function as a processing unit, the method comprising: acquiring first data indicating a result of character recognition on image data taken by a second apparatus; determining a recognition rate of the character recognition based on the first data; performing character recognition with regard to the image data using a first method when the recognition rate is less than a first threshold and when the recognition rate is equal to or greater than a second threshold; and performing character recognition with regard to the image data using a second method when the recognition rate is less than the second threshold.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein performing character recognition with regard to the image data using the second method further comprises performing character recognition with regard to the image data using the second method when the recognition rate is less than the second threshold and is equal to or greater than the third threshold, and performing character recognition with regard to the image data using a third method when the recognition rate is less than the third threshold.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein performing character recognition to the image data using the first method comprises: specifying, by the processor, a character type of the image data; and performing, in the first apparatus, character recognition based on the specified character type.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein performing character recognition using the second method when the recognition rate is less than the second threshold and is equal to or greater than the third threshold comprises: determining a misrecognition range of the image data; acquiring an image including the misrecognition range of the image data; and performing, in the first apparatus, character recognition to the acquired image.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein performing character recognition with regard to the image data using the third method when the recognition rate is less than the third threshold comprises: acquiring, in the first apparatus, the image data taken by the second apparatus; performing, in the first apparatus, character recognition on the image data.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the first apparatus is a server, the second apparatus is a terminal, and the server and the terminal are connected via a network.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the character type includes one of numbers, alphabets, Latin characters, hiragana, katakana, Chinese characters, or a combination thereof.
17. A character recognition method, comprising: in a second apparatus, performing character recognition with respect to image data and generating first data indicating a result of character recognition; in a first apparatus, determining whether misrecognition is included in the result of character recognition based on the first data and determining a character type of a character included in the image data when misrecognition is included in the result of character recognition; and in the second apparatus, performing character recognition using second data according to the character type in order to improve the accuracy of character recognition.
18. The character recognition method of claim 17, wherein the second apparatus is a terminal and the first apparatus is a server.
19. The character recognition method of claim 17, wherein the character type includes one of numbers, alphabets, Latin characters, hiragana, katakana, Chinese characters, or a combination thereof.
20. A character recognition method, comprising: performing, in a second apparatus, character recognition with respect to image data; generating, in the second apparatus, first data indicating a result of the character recognition; determining, in a first apparatus connected to the second apparatus, a misrecognition range of the image data based on the first data; acquiring, in the first apparatus from the second apparatus, partial image data corresponding to the misrecognition range; and performing, in the first apparatus, character recognition with respect to the partial image data.
</claims>
</document>
