<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EAZE TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEINFELDER, EDMOND
WOODS, ELI
KIBBEY, JOSHUA
ERICKSON, DANIEL
TILLEY, ANDREW
CHRISTIANAKIS, STRATOS
MITTAL, POTLUCK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883256
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hybrid delivery platform for regulated products
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are computer-implemented systems comprising: a digital processing device and a computer program to create a hybrid delivery model application for regulated products comprising: a database of at least one delivery territory; product depot; regulated products; and delivery vehicles, each vehicle comprising a regulated product inventory case and configured to operate in either of a dynamic delivery model and a batch delivery model and optionally switch between models; a software module setting the delivery model for each vehicle and optionally switching the delivery model for one or more of the vehicles; a software module providing the dynamic delivery model, and a software module providing the batch delivery model, wherein a content of the inventory case is determined based at least on a predicted demand and the upper inventory case value threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system comprising: a digital processing device comprising: at least one processor, an operating system configured to perform executable instructions, a memory, and a computer program including instructions executable by the at least one processor to create a hybrid delivery model application for regulated products comprising: a) a database comprising: at least one delivery territory; a plurality of regulated products; and a plurality of delivery vehicles, each vehicle comprising a regulated product inventory case; the regulated products subject to regulation imposing an upper regulated inventory case value threshold; and each vehicle configured to operate in either of a dynamic delivery model and a batch delivery model and optionally switch between models; b) a software module setting the delivery model for each vehicle and optionally switching the delivery model for one or more of the vehicles; c) a software module receiving orders for delivery of one or more of the regulated products within the at least one delivery territory; d) a software module providing the dynamic delivery model, wherein a content of the inventory case is determined based at least on a predicted demand and the upper regulated inventory case value threshold, and wherein one or more of the received orders are assigned, based at least on routing efficiency comprising distance and estimated delivery time, as they are received to one or more vehicles operating in the dynamic delivery model; and e) a software module providing the batch delivery model, wherein a content of the inventory case is determined based at least on a plurality of the received orders and the upper regulated inventory case value threshold, and wherein the plurality of the received orders are batched, based at least on routing efficiency comprising distance and estimated delivery time, and assigned to a vehicle operating in the batch delivery model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the dynamic delivery model is favored and applied if possible based on the content of the inventory cases of the vehicles operating in the dynamic delivery model.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein, in the batch delivery model, the application generates a manifest for the regulated products in the plurality of the received orders.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the database further comprises a plurality of unregulated products and wherein the content of the inventory case comprises one or more of the unregulated products, one or more of the regulated products, or a combination thereof.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the application further comprises a software module setting the delivery model for the at least one delivery territory, at least one depot, or both, wherein the at least one depot is for storing products to be delivered.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the case inventory is determined by a machine learning algorithm.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the demand is predicted by a machine learning algorithm.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the software module providing the batch delivery model is configured to determine at least one batch for a batch driver comprising: a) calculating a batch size based on one or more of: a number of available drivers, proximity of an available driver to a depot, location of orders, and a count of orders; b) determining a maximum or minimum batch size; c) determining an anchor order with high delivery priority; and d) grouping one or more orders with the anchor order.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein each of the one or more orders are grouped based on a distance between a delivery address of that order to the delivery address of the batch order, delivery time from the delivery address of that order to the delivery address of the batch order, or both.
10. A computer-implemented method of delivering regulated products via a hybrid delivery model system comprising: a) maintaining, in a non-transitory storage, a database comprising: at least one delivery territory; a plurality of regulated products; and a plurality of delivery vehicles, each vehicle comprising a regulated product inventory case; the regulated products subject to regulation imposing an upper regulated inventory case value threshold; and each vehicle configured to operate in either of a dynamic delivery model and a batch delivery model and optionally switch between models; b) setting, by a computer, the delivery model for each vehicle and optionally switching the delivery model for one or more of the vehicles; c) receiving, by the computer, orders for delivery of one or more of the regulated products within the at least one delivery territory; d) providing, by the computer, the dynamic delivery model, wherein a content of the inventory case is determined based at least on a predicted demand and the upper regulated inventory case value threshold, and wherein one or more of the received orders are assigned, based at least on routing efficiency comprising distance and estimated delivery time, as they are received to one or more vehicles operating in the dynamic delivery model; and e) providing, by the computer, the batch delivery model, wherein a content of the inventory case is determined based at least on a plurality of the received orders and the upper regulated inventory case value threshold, and wherein the plurality of the received orders are batched, based at least on routing efficiency comprising distance and estimated delivery time, and assigned to a vehicle operating in the batch delivery model.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the dynamic delivery model is favored and applied if possible based on the content of the inventory cases of the vehicles operating in the dynamic delivery model.
12. The method of claim 10 further comprising switching, by the computer, the delivery model of one or more of the vehicles automatically.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising configuring, by the computer, the upper regulated inventory case value threshold and/or the upper total inventory case value threshold automatically.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein, in the batch delivery model, a manifest is generated for the regulated products in the plurality of the received orders.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the database further comprises a plurality of unregulated products and wherein the content of the inventory case comprises one or more of the unregulated products, one or more of the regulated products, or a combination thereof.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising setting, by the computer, the delivery model for the at least one delivery territory, at least one depot, or both, wherein the at least one depot is for storing products to be delivered.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the case inventory is determined by a machine learning algorithm.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the demand is predicted by a machine learning algorithm.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein providing the batch delivery model comprises determining at least one batch for a batch driver comprising: a) calculating a batch size based on one or more of: a number of available drivers, proximity of an available driver to a depot, location of orders, and a count of orders; b) determining a maximum or minimum batch size; c) determining an anchor order with high delivery priority; and d) grouping one or more orders with the anchor order.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein each of the one or more orders are grouped based on a distance between a delivery address of that order to a delivery address of the batch order, a delivery time from the delivery address of that order to the delivery address of the batch order, or both.
21. A computer-implemented system comprising: a digital processing device comprising: at least one processor, an operating system configured to perform executable instructions, a memory, and a computer program including instructions executable by the at least one processor to create mobile inventory case packing application for a dynamic or hybrid delivery model, the application comprising: a) a database of regulated and unregulated products, the regulated products subject to an upper regulated inventory case value; b) a software module receiving the upper regulated inventory case value, a base case allotment, and a number of cases; c) a software module conducting a data collection stage by performing at least the following: i) building a set of training data comprising historical demand and orders; ii) generating a ranked list of products based on demand; iii) determining an upper case quantity bound and a lower case quantity bound for each product based on demand; and d) a software module conducting a parallelized simulation stage by performing at least the following: i) generating one or more simulated cases based on the number of cases and the base case allotment by: 1) for each case, filling a base case up to either the base case allotment or up to the lower bound of each regulated product by sequentially traversing the ranked list, and if room is left in the base case, selecting random regulated products from the ranked list with exponential weighting applied to the rank; and 2) for each case, until a total case quantity is at the upper bound, first, randomly selecting a remaining regulated product based on exponential weighting and adding it to a random case; and second, selecting an unregulated product and adding it to a random case; ii) running a plurality of parallel simulations based on the set of training data; and iii) evaluating a performance of each simulated case.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein: a) a software module conducting a data collection stage further performs generating an affinity matrix comprising a set of weights representing relationships between products; and b) a software module conducting a parallelized simulation stage further performs, prior to selecting an unregulated product, randomly selecting a remaining regulated product and adding it to a case based on the affinity matrix.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the number of cases and/or the base case allotment are received from a machine learning process.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the ranked list of products is determined based on at least the percentage a product contributes to revenue, the probability the product is added to a customer's cart, and an average size of order in which the product appears.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein the ranked list of products and/or the upper and lower case quantity bound for each product is determined by a machine learning process.
26. A computer-implemented system comprising: a digital processing device comprising: at least one processor, an operating system configured to perform executable instructions, a memory, and a computer program including instructions executable by the at least one processor to create mobile inventory case packing application for a dynamic or hybrid delivery model, the application comprising: a) a database of regulated and unregulated products, the regulated products subject to an upper regulated inventory case value; b) a software module receiving the upper regulated inventory case value and a base case allotment; c) a software module conducting a data collection stage by performing at least the following: i) building a set of training data comprising historical demand and orders; ii) generating a ranked list of products based on demand; iii) determining an upper case quantity bound and a lower case quantity bound for each product based on demand; and d) a software module conducting a parallelized simulation stage by performing at least the following: i) generating a simulated case based on the base case allotment by: 1) filling a base case up to the base case allotment by sequentially traversing the ranked list, and if room is left in the base case, selecting random regulated products from the ranked list with exponential weighting applied to the rank; and 2) until a total case quantity is at the lower bound, randomly selecting an unregulated product and adding it to the case; ii) running a plurality of parallel simulations based on the set of training data; and iii) evaluating a performance of the simulated case.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the number of cases and/or base case allotment is received from a machine learning process.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the ranked list of products is determined based on at least the percentage a product contributes to revenue, the probability the product is added to a customer's cart, and an average size of order in which the product appears.
29. The system of claim 26, wherein the ranked list of products is determined by a machine learning process.
30. The system of claim 26, wherein the upper and the lower case quantity bound for each product is determined by a machine learning process.
</claims>
</document>
