<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAWAI YOSHIKAZU
KURODA, TOMOKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422837
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS, IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS, AND CONTROL METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus includes a sensor configured to capture an image of an affected part, and a processor configured to obtain information about a size of the affected part in the captured image, and control timing to capture an image of the affected part or control timing to prompt a user to perform an imaging operation based on the information about the size of the affected part.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a sensor configured to capture an image of an affected part; and a processor configured to obtain information about a size of the affected part in the captured image, and control timing to capture an image of the affected part or control timing to prompt a user to perform an imaging operation based on the information about the size of the affected part.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to, if the size of the affected part is greater than or equal to a threshold, control such that the image of the affected part is captured or control such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation.
3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the threshold is a value based on a size of the affected part of a same patient which has been captured before.
4. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to, if the size of the affected part is greater than or equal to the threshold, control such that no image of the affected part is captured or control such that the user is not prompted to perform the imaging operation while a ratio of change of the size of the affected part to a size of the affected part obtained before or difference of the size of the affected part from the size of the affected part obtained before does not fall within a predetermined range.
5. The apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to, if the size of the affected part is greater than or equal to the threshold and the ratio of change of the size of the affected part to the size of the affected part obtained before or difference of the size of the affected part from the size of the affected part obtained before falls within the predetermined range, control such that the image of the affected part is captured or control such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation.
6. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to, if the size of the affected part is not greater than or equal to the threshold and a predetermined period has elapsed, control the capturing such that the image of the affected is captured or control such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to, if a ratio of change of the size of the affected part to a size of the affected part obtained before or difference of the size of the affected part from the size of the affected part obtained before falls within a predetermined range, control such that the image of the affected part is captured or control such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to transmit the image including the captured affected part to an outside via a communication circuit, and receive information about the size of the affected part from the outside via the communication circuit in response to transmission of the image to the outside.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to receive the information about the size of the affected part via the communication circuit each time the image is transmitted to the outside via the communication circuit.
10. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to, if the apparatus is determined to be directly facing an object including the affected part based on distance information about distance from the apparatus to the object, control such that the image of the affected part is captured or control such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation.
11. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the affected part is a pressure ulcer, and wherein the size of the affected part is at least any one of the following: an area of an affected region, a length of a major axis of the affected region, and a length of a minor axis of the affected region.
12. An apparatus comprising: a sensor configured to capture an image of an affected part; and a processor configured to, if the apparatus is directly facing an object including the affected part, control such that an image of the affected part is captured or control such that a user is prompted to perform an imaging operation.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to determine whether the object including the affected part is directly facing the apparatus based on distance information about distance from the apparatus to the object.
14. An image processing apparatus comprising: a communication circuit configured to receive an image including an affected part from an imaging apparatus; and a processor configured to calculate a size of the affected part based on the received image, and, to control timing to capture an image of the affected part by the imaging apparatus or control timing to prompt a user to perform an imaging operation based on information about the size of the affected part, transmit the information about the size of the affected part to the imaging apparatus via the communication circuit.
15. A method comprising: capturing an image of an affected part by a sensor; obtaining information about a size of the affected part in the captured image; and controlling timing to capture an image of the affected part or controlling timing to prompt a user to perform an imaging operation based on the information about the size of the affected part.
16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising controlling such that the image of the affected part is captured or controlling such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation, if the size of the affected part is greater than or equal to a threshold.
17. The method according to claim 15, further comprising controlling such that the image of the affected part is captured or controlling such that the user is prompted to perform the imaging operation, if a ratio of change of the size of the affected part to a size of the affected part obtained before or difference of the size of the affected part from the size of the affected part obtained before falls within a predetermined range,
18. The method according to claim 15, further comprising: transmitting the image including the captured affected part to an outside via a communication circuit; and receiving information about the size of the affected part from the outside via the communication circuit in response to transmission of the image to the outside.
19. A method comprising: determining whether an object including an affected part is directly facing an apparatus; and if the object including the affected part is directly facing the apparatus, controlling such that an image of the affected part is captured by a sensor or controlling such that a user is prompted to perform an imaging operation.
20. A method comprising: receiving an image including an affected part from an apparatus; calculating a size of the affected part based on the received image; and to control timing to capture an image of the affected part or control timing to prompt a user to perform an imaging operation based on information about the size of the affected part, transmitting the information about the size of the affected part to the apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
