<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
GENUS, MARYANNE
HINRICHS, PATRICIA
CASPER, MICHAEL L.
HAMM, LAURIE JEAN
DAHLSTRAND, CLAES
PARTYKA, BRYAN C.
HOLM, NATALIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-LAYER USER AUTHENTICATION WITH LIVE INTERACTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques for multi-layer user authentication with live interaction are described herein. An authentication request may be received from a user for secure data stored in a computing system. Contextual data may be received that is associated with authentication information received from the user. It may be determined that the user has passed a first authentication process based on a match between the authentication information and reference authentication information stored in a user profile for the user. A risk score may be generated for the authentication request based on the contextual data and the authentication data. A second authentication process may be identified based on the risk score. A set of secondary authentication information may be received. Data associated with the authentication request may be transmitted upon authentication of the user via the second authentication process based on the set of secondary authentication data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for multi-layer user authentication, the system comprising: at least one processor; and memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: receive an authentication request from a user for secure data stored in a computing system; obtain contextual data associated with authentication information received from the user; determine that the user has passed a first authentication process based on a match between the authentication information and reference authentication information stored in a user profile for the user; generate a risk score for the authentication request based on the contextual data and the authentication data; identify a second authentication process to be completed for the user based on the risk score; receive a set of secondary authentication information from the user; and transmit data associated with the authentication request for presentation in a user interface upon authentication of the user via the second authentication process based on the set of secondary authentication data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the authentication request is received via a web-based user interface or an interactive voice response user interface.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the contextual information includes at least one of the set of a geographical location of the user, a network topology between a device used to initiate the authentication request and a computing system providing the user interface, line noise present on a communication medium used to initiate the authentication request, a format in which the authentication information is received, and a veracity of the authentication information received.
4. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmit a prompt to the user interface that indicates that a live video session will be initiated; and initiate the live video session via a video capable device of the user, wherein the set of secondary authentication information is received via the live video session.
5. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmit a prompt to the user interface that requests the set of secondary authentication information; and receive the set of secondary authentication information via the user interface.
6. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the second authentication process failed; transmit a prompt to the user interface that indicates that a live video session will be initiated; initiate the live video session via a video capable device of the user; receive a set of tertiary authentication information via the live video session; and transmit data associated with the authentication request for presentation in the user interface upon authentication of the user via a third authentication process based on the set of tertiary authentication data.
7. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: generate a risk score model, by a machine learning processor, using a set of training data that includes training contextual data that corresponds to fraudulent authentication requests; and evaluate the contextual information through use of the risk score model, wherein the risk score is generated based on the evaluation of the contextual information.
8. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the second authentication process failed; generate a fraudulent user profile for the user; and store the contextual information with the fraudulent user profile.
9. The system of claim 8, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: receive a second authentication request; obtain second contextual data associated with second authentication information received from the user; compare the second contextual information to the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile; and deny the second authentication request based on a similarity between the second contextual information and the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile.
10. The system of claim 1, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the user was authenticated via the second authentication process; and store the contextual information with the user profile.
11. The system of claim 10, the memory further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: receive a second authentication request; obtain second contextual data associated with second authentication information received from the user; compare the second contextual information to the contextual information stored with the user profile; and authenticate the user based on a similarity between the second contextual information and the contextual information stored with the user profile.
12. At least one non-transitory machine-readable medium including instructions for multi-layer user authentication that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: receive an authentication request from a user for secure data stored in a computing system; obtain contextual data associated with authentication information received from the user; determine that the user has passed a first authentication process based on a match between the authentication information and reference authentication information stored in a user profile for the user; generate a risk score for the authentication request based on the contextual data and the authentication data; identify a second authentication process to be completed for the user based on the risk score; receive a set of secondary authentication information from the user; and transmit data associated with the authentication request for presentation in a user interface upon authentication of the user via the second authentication process based on the set of secondary authentication data.
13. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 12, further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmit a prompt to the user interface that indicates that a live video session will be initiated; and initiate the live video session via a video capable device of the user, wherein the set of secondary authentication information is received via the live video session.
14. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 12, further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmit a prompt to the user interface that requests the set of secondary authentication information; and receive the set of secondary authentication information via the user interface.
15. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 12, further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the second authentication process failed; transmit a prompt to the user interface that indicates that a live video session will be initiated; initiate the live video session via a video capable device of the user; receive a set of tertiary authentication information via the live video session; and transmit data associated with the authentication request for presentation in the user interface upon authentication of the user via a third authentication process based on the set of tertiary authentication data.
16. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 12, further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: determine that the second authentication process failed; generate a fraudulent user profile for the user; and store the contextual information with the fraudulent user profile.
17. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, further including instructions that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations to: receive a second authentication request; obtain second contextual data associated with second authentication information received from the user; compare the second contextual information to the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile; and deny the second authentication request based on a similarity between the second contextual information and the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile.
18. A method for multi-layer user authentication, the method comprising: receiving an authentication request from a user for secure data stored in a computing system; obtaining contextual data associated with authentication information received from the user; determining that the user has passed a first authentication process based on a match between the authentication information and reference authentication information stored in a user profile for the user; generating a risk score for the authentication request based on the contextual data and the authentication data; identifying a second authentication process to be completed for the user based on the risk score; receiving a set of secondary authentication information from the user; and transmitting data associated with the authentication request for presentation in a user interface upon authentication of the user via the second authentication process based on the set of secondary authentication data.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmitting a prompt to the user interface indicating that a live video session will be initiated; and initiating the live video session via a video capable device of the user, wherein the set of secondary authentication information is received via the live video session.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the risk score is outside a threshold; transmitting a prompt to the user interface requesting the set of secondary authentication information; and receiving the set of secondary authentication information via the user interface.
21. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the second authentication process failed; transmitting a prompt to the user interface indicating that a live video session will be initiated; initiating the live video session via a video capable device of the user; receiving a set of tertiary authentication information via the live video session; and transmitting data associated with the authentication request for presentation in the user interface upon authentication of the user via a third authentication process based on the set of tertiary authentication data.
22. The method of claim 18, further comprising: generating a risk score model, by a machine learning processor, using a set of training data including training contextual data corresponding to fraudulent authentication requests; and evaluating the contextual information using the risk score model, wherein the risk score is generated based on the evaluation of the contextual information.
23. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that the second authentication process failed; generating a fraudulent user profile for the user; and storing the contextual information with the fraudulent user profile.
24. The method of claim 23, further comprising: receiving a second authentication request; obtaining second contextual data associated with second authentication information received from the user; comparing the second contextual information to the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile; and denying the second authentication request based on a similarity between the second contextual information and the contextual information stored with the fraudulent user profile.
</claims>
</document>
