<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N3/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEORGESON, GARY, E.
SWEERS, GREGORY JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE AND METHOD FOR USE IN EXAMINING A COMPOSITE STRUCTURE
</title>

<abstract>
A method of performing an automated non-destructive examination of a composite structure includes identifying surface damage on the composite structure, coupling an automated tap tester device to a surface of the composite structure at a location of the surface damage, and performing, with the automated tap tester device, a plurality of tapping impacts on the surface within a testing area that encapsulates the surface damage. The method also includes receiving a plurality of acoustic signals associated with the plurality of tapping impacts, modeling sub-surface damage associated with the surface damage based on an analysis of the plurality of acoustic signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of performing a non-destructive examination of a composite structure, the method comprising: identifying surface damage on the composite structure; coupling an automated tap tester device to a surface of the composite structure at a location of the surface damage; performing, with the automated tap tester device, a plurality of tapping impacts on the surface within a testing area that encapsulates the surface damage; receiving a plurality of acoustic signals associated with the plurality of tapping impacts; and modeling sub-surface damage associated with the surface damage based on an analysis of the plurality of acoustic signals.
2. The method in accordance with claim 1, receiving a plurality of acoustic signals comprises: receiving a plurality of first acoustic signals having a first signature, wherein the first signature is associated with a non-damaged area of the composite structure; and receiving a plurality of second acoustic signals having a second signature different than the first signature, wherein the second signature is associated with a damaged area of the composite structure.
3. The method in accordance with claim 2, wherein modeling sub-surface damage comprises: determining a surface area of the sub-surface damage relative to the surface based on an analysis of locations from which the first and second acoustic signals were received across the testing area; and determining a depth of the sub-surface damage relative to the surface based on an analysis of at least one of a frequency and an amplitude of the first and second acoustic signals.
4. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein performing a plurality of tapping impacts comprises performing the plurality of tapping impacts in a predetermined impact path across the testing area.
5. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein performing a plurality of tapping impacts comprises: performing the plurality of tapping impacts across the testing area; and adjusting an impact path defined by the plurality of tapping impacts based on an iterative analysis of each acoustic signal received after performance of the plurality of tapping impacts.
6. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein performing a plurality of tapping impacts comprises: determining, with an accelerometer, a stiffness of the surface of the composite structure across the testing area; and modeling the sub-surface damage based on an analysis of the stiffness of the surface at different locations across the testing area.
7. The method in accordance with claim 1, wherein coupling an automated tap tester device comprises coupling the automated tap tester device to the surface using a vehicle that is automated or remote-controlled.
8. The method in accordance with claim 7, wherein coupling the automated tap tester device comprises using a camera to align the automated tap tester device and the vehicle with the location of the surface damage.
9. An automated tap tester device for use in examining a composite structure, the device comprising: a frame comprising a base that comprises an opening that defines a field of operation; a linear stage coupled to the base; a tapping member coupled to the linear stage, the tapping member configured to perform a plurality of tapping impacts on a surface of the composite structure, wherein the linear stage is movable relative to the base and the tapping member is movable relative to the linear stage to enable the tapping member to traverse the field of operation; and a sensor configured to receive a plurality of acoustic signals associated with the plurality of tapping impacts.
10. The device in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a linear encoder configured to track a position of the tapping member within the field of operation.
11. The device in accordance with claim 9 further comprising an accelerometer coupled to the tapping member, the accelerometer configured to determine a stiffness of the surface of the composite structure.
12. The device in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a mounting system coupled to the frame, the mounting system configured to enable the frame to be selectively mounted to the surface of the composite structure.
13. The device in accordance with claim 9, wherein the frame further comprises a connector configured for selective engagement with an automated vehicle.
14. The device in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a camera oriented to capture images of the field of operation.
15. The device in accordance with claim 9 further comprising a power supply configured to enable the device to operate autonomously.
16. A method of examining a composite structure, the method comprising: receiving tapping impact data associated with performance of a plurality of tapping impacts on a surface of the composite structure, wherein the plurality of tapping impacts are performed within a testing area that encapsulates surface damage on the composite structure, and wherein the tapping impact data is based on a plurality of acoustic signals associated with the plurality of tapping impacts; modeling sub-surface damage associated with the surface damage based on an analysis of the tapping impact data; and generating a model of the sub-surface damage.
17. The method in accordance with claim 16, wherein receiving tapping impact data comprises: identifying the surface damage on the composite structure; coupling an automated tap tester device to the surface of the composite structure at a location of the surface damage; performing, with the automated tap tester device, the plurality of tapping impacts on the surface; and receiving the plurality of acoustic signals associated with the plurality of tapping impacts.
18. The method in accordance with claim 16, wherein generating a model comprises: generating a first model of a surface area defined by the sub-surface damage; and generating a second model of a sub-surface depth defined by the sub-surface damage.
19. The method in accordance with claim 16, wherein modeling the sub-surface damage comprises determining a surface area and a depth of the sub-surface damage based on at least one of a frequency and an amplitude of the plurality of acoustic signals.
20. The method in accordance with claim 16 further comprising providing a repair recommendation based on the modeling of the sub-surface damage.
</claims>
</document>
