<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D45/00,B64F5/60,G01C23/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SATAVIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DURANT, ADAM
RIX, ANTONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63921289
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AIRCRAFT CONTAMINANT MONITORING AND OPERATION SCHEDULING
</title>

<claims>
1. An aircraft operation scheduling system, comprising: (a) a computing arrangement that computes a measure of contaminant exposure to estimate aircraft contamination, wherein the computing arrangement, when in operation, accesses a database of contamination data as a function of spatial location and time; (b) the computing arrangement receives when in operation schedule information related to a plurality of aircraft flights; (c) the computing arrangement interrogates a database of contamination data to derive: (i) an estimated historical contamination for the aircraft or each aircraft engine of the aircraft by at least one contaminant; and (ii) an estimated expected contaminant exposure for the aircraft or each aircraft engine; and (d) the computing arrangement, when in operation: (i) identifies at least one aircraft engine with higher estimated historical contaminant exposure or with lower estimated historical contaminant exposure; and (ii) identifies at least one route with lower expected exposure or higher expected exposure to the at least one contaminant; and (iii) provides recommendations on route allocation by assigning an aircraft with the higher estimated historical contaminant exposure being scheduled to at least one route with lower expected exposure to the at least one contaminant.
2. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the computing arrangement provides recommendations on route allocation to ensure that a total exposure to contamination, based upon the estimated historical contaminant exposure and expected contaminant exposure, is reduced or maintained within a required range.
3. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 2, wherein the computing arrangement employs machine learning utilizing one or more adaptive algorithms, wherein the one or more adaptive algorithms are trained using historical data pertaining to one or more aircraft or one or more aircraft engines.
4. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 2, wherein characterized in that machine learning is used to determine at least one of the following: a selection of a numerical model, coefficients of a numerical model, or a set of features to be used in a numerical model.
5. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 2, wherein at least one contaminant exposure is determined using a statistical or machine learning model applied to values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement.
6. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 2, wherein at least one contaminant exposure is determined using a statistical or machine learning model arranged to compensate for bias or spatial or temporal uncertainty in values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement.
7. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 2, wherein a measure of spatial or temporal uncertainty is determined using a statistical or machine learning model arranged to receive values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement.
8. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the processor preferentially assigns aircraft with lower estimated historical contaminant exposure to routes with higher expected exposure to the at least one contaminant during route allocation.
9. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the system comprises: (a) an input interface that receives further input variables to be utilized by the processor to calculate a measure of contaminant exposure to estimate aircraft engine contamination, wherein the input variables include at least one of: engine or aircraft control, loading or operational parameters, engine or aircraft model and type information, sensor data, weather parameters, temperatures, speeds, altitudes, mass flow rates, fuel flow rates, vibration measures, inspection results or wear estimates; and (b) a distributed computing system and the control module and at least one data storage mediums are centralized, and, at a fleet input interface, a schedule input interface, and an output interface are provided at one or more local computing nodes.
10. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the expected contaminant exposure of the aircraft or the aircraft engine is estimated by determining an exposure index which is a measure of a contaminant exposure or an amount of contaminant material that passes through the aircraft or the aircraft engine in the aircraft fleet based on its trajectory, wherein the control module allocates the exposure index to each aircraft engine in the fleet based upon the estimated historic contamination, wherein the amount of the contaminant material that passes through the aircraft or aircraft engine is calculated based on the mass flow rate, and the fuel flow rate and the recommendation on route allocation are optimized to reduce variation in the exposure index across a plurality of aircraft in the fleet as a function of time.
11. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the system further comprises a maintenance interface, wherein the maintenance interface is coupled in communication with the control module to input data for adjusting the estimated historic contamination for the aircraft or each aircraft engine as a result of maintenance interventions and to output alerts for required interventions.
12. The aircraft operation scheduling system of claim 1, wherein the historic contamination of the aircraft is estimated by determining at least one of an average contamination exposure of the aircraft or each aircraft engine per cycle, an average contamination exposure of the aircraft or each aircraft engine per time interval or a cumulative contamination exposure of the aircraft or each aircraft engine and determining historical contamination of at least one flight phase of the aircraft or each aircraft engine from the database of contamination data.
13. A method for (of) scheduling aircraft operations, comprising: (a) calculating, using a computing arrangement, a measure of contaminant exposure to estimate aircraft contamination based upon known historical data sets including aircraft flight data, atmospheric contaminant data as a function of spatial location and time, and engine service data; (b) using the measure of contaminant exposure to calculate an estimate of the historical contamination of the aircraft or engines of the aircraft being scheduled; (c) using the measure of contaminant exposure to estimate an expected exposure to at least one contaminant for a plurality of required aircraft flights; (d) identifying at least one aircraft or aircraft engine with a higher estimated historical contaminant exposure or with a lower estimated historical contaminant exposure; (e) identifying at least one route with a lower expected exposure or a higher expected exposure to the at least one contaminant; and (f) providing recommendations on a route allocation by assigning an aircraft or aircraft engine with the higher estimated historical contaminant exposure being scheduled to at least one route with the lower expected exposure to the at least one contaminant.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the method includes in step (f) providing recommendations on a route allocation to ensure that total exposure to contamination, based upon the estimated historical contaminant exposure and expected contaminant exposure, is reduced or maintained within a required range.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the method includes arranging for the computing arrangement to employ machine learning utilizing one or more adaptive algorithms, wherein the one or more adaptive algorithms are trained using historical data pertaining to one or more aircraft or one or more aircraft engines.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein characterized in that machine learning is used to determine at least one of the following: a selection of a numerical model, coefficients of a numerical model, or a set of features to be used in a numerical model.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one contaminant exposure is determined using a statistical or machine learning model applied to values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein at least one contaminant exposure is determined using a statistical or machine learning model arranged to compensate for bias or spatial or temporal uncertainty in values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement
19. The method of claim 13, wherein a measure of spatial or temporal uncertainty is determined using a statistical or machine learning model arranged to receive values of a contaminant determined from at least one of: a database, a web API, a NWP model, a measurement.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the measure of contaminant exposure used to estimate aircraft engine contamination is trained using historical data sets and machine learning, and used thereafter for providing recommendations.
</claims>
</document>
