<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOSHIZUMI, TAKAYUKI
KATSUKI, TAKAYUKI
ZHAO, KUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73506542
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTION OF OPERATION TENDENCY BASED ON ANOMALY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for detecting an operation tendency is disclosed. The method includes preparing a general model for generating a general anomaly score. The method also includes preparing a specific model, for generating a specific anomaly score, trained with a set of a plurality of operation data related to operation by a target operator. The method further includes receiving input operation data. The method includes also calculating a detection score related to the operation tendency by using a general anomaly score and a specific anomaly score generated for the input operation data. Further the method includes outputting a result based on the detection score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting an operation tendency, the method comprising: preparing a general model for generating a general anomaly score; preparing a specific model, for generating a specific anomaly score, trained with a set of a plurality of operation data related to operation by a target operator; receiving input operation data; calculating a detection score related to the operation tendency by using a general anomaly score and a specific anomaly score generated for the input operation data; and outputting a result based on the detection score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: extracting one or more highlight parts satisfying a highlight extraction condition related to the general anomaly score and/or the specific anomaly score from the input operation data, the general anomaly score and the specific anomaly score used to calculate the detection score being scores generated for the one or more highlight parts.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the highlight extraction condition includes a condition for extracting a peak having magnitude more than a second threshold with respect to the general anomaly score and/or the specific anomaly score
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the result indicates a change in the operation tendency in response to a tendency change detection condition related to the detection score being satisfied.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the tendency change detection condition includes a first threshold with respect to the detection score, the first threshold being set in relation to a statistic of detection scores calculated for the set of the plurality of the operation data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises: generating a sequence of general anomaly scores and a sequence of specific anomaly scores for the input operation data; and performing convolution of the sequence of the general anomaly scores and convolution of the sequence of the specific anomaly scores, the general anomaly score and the specific anomaly score being used in a form of the convolution to calculate the detection score.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the operation tendency is a driving tendency of a vehicle and the target operator includes at least one individual driver and the result indicates a driver change for the input operation data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprising: in response to an update condition being satisfied, updating the specific model using the input operation data.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the specific model has been trained by using the set of the plurality of the operation data on a basis of the general model.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of the operation data and the input operation data includes a sequence of vectors each including a plurality of recorded values selected from a group comprising accelerations of x, y and z axes, angular velocities of roll, pitch and yaw axes, a vehicle speed, a steering angle, latitude, longitude, height, an azimuth, a depression amount and a depression speed of an accelerator pedal, a position of a throttle valve, a depression amount and a depression speed of a brake pedal, and processed values obtained therefrom.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the general model and the specific model have architectures of a dynamic Boltzmann machine.
12. The method of claim 2, wherein the detection score is a ratio of a sum of one or more specific anomaly scores to a sum of one or more general anomaly scores generated for the one or more highlight parts.
13. A computer system for detecting an operation tendency, by executing program instructions, the computer system comprising: a memory tangibly storing the program instructions; a processor in communications with the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: prepare a general model for generating a general anomaly score; prepare a specific model, for generating a specific anomaly score, trained with a set of a plurality of operation data related to operation by a target operator; receive input operation data; calculate a detection score related to the operation tendency by using a general anomaly score and a specific anomaly score generated for the input operation data; and output a result based on the detection score.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the processor is configured to: extract one or more highlight parts satisfying a highlight extraction condition related to the general anomaly score and/or the specific anomaly score from the input operation data, wherein the general anomaly score and the specific anomaly score used to calculate the detection score are scores generated for the one or more highlight parts.
15. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the result indicates a change in the operation tendency in response to a tendency change detection condition related to the detection score being satisfied.
16. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the operation tendency is a driving tendency and the target operator includes at least one individual driver and the result indicates a driver change for the input operation data.
17. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the computer system is selected from a group comprising an in-vehicle computer system; an on-device computer system of a driving recorder; a mobile computer system brought into a vehicle; a general computer communicated with a vehicle through a network, and a general computer having an access to a storage medium for storing the input operation data.
18. A computer program product for detecting an operation tendency, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a computer-implemented method comprising: preparing a general model for generating a general anomaly score; preparing a specific model, for generating a specific anomaly score, trained with a set of a plurality of operation data related to operation by a target operator; receiving input operation data; calculating a detection score related to the operation tendency by using a general anomaly score and a specific anomaly score generated for the input operation data; and outputting a result based on the detection score.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises: extracting one or more highlight parts satisfying a highlight extraction condition related to the general anomaly score and/or the specific anomaly score from the input operation data, the general anomaly score and the specific anomaly score used to calculate the detection score being scores generated for the one or more highlight parts.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the result indicates a change in the operation tendency in response to a tendency change detection condition related to the detection score being satisfied.
</claims>
</document>
