<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/10,G06K7/14,G06K9/20,G06K9/32,G06K9/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZEBRA TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, DUANFENG
BHELLA, KENNETH S.
KOCH, DAVID S.
FAHMI, LINDSAY M.
CHEN, DONGQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67540040
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC FORM DATA READING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to the field of inventory management. In an embodiment, the present application is a method of reading barcodes. The method includes capturing, by an imaging assembly, an image of a target, the target including: (i) a symbol encoding a payload data, and (ii) a set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing a payload descriptor associated with the symbol; decoding, by a first processor, the symbol to extract the payload data; performing, by a second processor, an optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor associated with the symbol; associating the payload data with the payload descriptor, resulting in an associated pair; and forwarding the associated pair to a third processor for further processing of the payload data based on the payload descriptor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of reading barcodes, the method comprising: capturing, by an imaging assembly, an image of a target, the target including: (i) a symbol encoding a payload data, and (ii) a set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing a payload descriptor associated with the symbol; decoding, by a first processor, the symbol to extract the payload data; performing, by a second processor, an optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor associated with the symbol; associating the payload data with the payload descriptor, resulting in an associated pair; and forwarding the associated pair to a third processor for further processing of the payload data based on the payload descriptor.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: associating the payload data with the payload descriptor based on a position of the alphanumeric characters with respect to the symbol in the image of the target and/or associating the payload data with the payload descriptor based on a proximity of the alphanumeric characters with respect to symbol in the image of the target.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing the payload descriptor further contains an alphanumeric string corresponding to the payload data, and wherein associating the payload data with the payload descriptor further comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the alphanumeric string corresponding to the payload data; matching the payload data to the alphanumeric string corresponding to the payload data; and associating the payload data with the payload descriptor contained in the same set of one or more alphanumeric characters as the matched alphanumeric string.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein matching the payload data to the alphanumeric string corresponding to the payload data comprises: matching the payload data to the alphanumeric string corresponding to the payload data using a fuzzy logic comparison.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor associated with the symbol comprises: performing the optical character recognition analysis on a particular region of the image of the target based on the proximity of the region to the symbol.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the particular region of the image of the target is immediately above, immediately below, or immediately adjacent to the symbol.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor associated with the symbol comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor; comparing the identified payload descriptor to a plurality of known payload descriptors; matching the identified payload descriptor to a particular known payload descriptor; and associating the payload data with the particular known payload descriptor.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein comparing the identified payload descriptor to a particular known payload descriptor comprises comparing the identified payload descriptor to the plurality of known payload descriptors using a fuzzy logic comparison.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the first processor, the second processor and/or the third processor are co-located logical processors.
10. A method of reading barcodes, the method comprising: capturing, by an imaging assembly, an image of a target, the target including: (i) a first symbol encoding a first payload data, (ii) a second symbol encoding a second payload data, (iii) a first set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing a first payload descriptor associated with the first symbol, and (iv) a second set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing a second payload descriptor associated with the second symbol; decoding, by a first processor, the first symbol to extract the first payload data; decoding, by the first processor, the second symbol to extract the second payload data; performing, by a second processor, an optical character recognition analysis on the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the first payload descriptor associated with the first symbol; performing, by the second processor, an optical character recognition analysis on the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the second payload descriptor associated with the second symbol; associating the first payload data with the first payload descriptor, resulting in a first associated pair; associating the second payload data with the second payload descriptor, resulting in a second associated pair; forwarding the first associated pair to a third processor for further processing of the first payload data based on the first payload descriptor; and forwarding the second associated pair to a fourth processor for further processing of the second payload data based on the second payload descriptor.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising: associating the first payload data with the first payload descriptor based on a position of the first set of alphanumeric characters with respect to the first symbol in the image of the target; and associating the second payload data with the second payload descriptor based on a position of the second set of alphanumeric characters with respect to the second symbol in the image of the target.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first set of alphanumeric characters is in closer proximity to the first symbol than to the second symbol, and wherein the second set of alphanumeric characters is in closer proximity to the second symbol than to the first symbol.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing the first payload descriptor further contains a first alphanumeric string corresponding to the first payload data, and wherein the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing the second payload descriptor further contains a second alphanumeric string corresponding to the second payload data, and wherein associating the first payload data with the first payload descriptor further comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the first alphanumeric string corresponding to the first payload data; matching the first payload data to the first alphanumeric string corresponding to the first payload data; associating the first payload data with the first payload descriptor contained in the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters with the matched first alphanumeric string; and wherein associating the second payload data with the second payload descriptor further comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the second alphanumeric string corresponding to the second payload data; matching the second payload data to the second alphanumeric string corresponding to the second payload data; and associating the second payload data with the second payload descriptor contained in the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters with the matched second alphanumeric string.
14. The method of claim 14, wherein matching the first payload data to the first alphanumeric string corresponding to the first payload data comprises: matching the first payload data to the first alphanumeric string corresponding to the first payload data using a fuzzy logic comparison; and wherein matching the second payload data to the second alphanumeric string corresponding to the second payload data comprises: matching the second payload data to the second alphanumeric string corresponding to the second payload data using a fuzzy logic comparison.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the first payload descriptor associated with the first symbol comprises: performing the optical character recognition analysis on a first region of the image of the target based on the proximity of the first region to the first symbol; and wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the second payload descriptor associated with the second symbol comprises: performing the optical character recognition analysis on a second region of the image of the target based on the proximity of the second region to the second symbol.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the first region of the image of the target is immediately above, immediately below, or immediately adjacent to the first symbol, and wherein the second region of the image of the target is immediately above, immediately below, or immediately adjacent to the second symbol.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein one or more of the first processor, the second processor, the third processor, and/or the fourth processor are co-located logical processors.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the first payload descriptor associated with the first symbol comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the first set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the first payload descriptor; comparing the identified first payload descriptor to a plurality of known payload descriptors; matching the identified first payload descriptor to a first known payload descriptor; and associating the first payload data with the first known payload descriptor; wherein performing the optical character recognition analysis on the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the second payload descriptor associated with the second symbol comprises: performing an optical character recognition analysis on the second set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the second payload descriptor; comparing the identified second payload descriptor to the plurality of known payload descriptors; matching the identified second payload descriptor to a second known payload descriptor; and associating the second payload data with the second known payload descriptor.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein matching the identified first payload descriptor to a first known payload descriptor comprises matching the identified first payload descriptor to the first known payload descriptor using a fuzzy logic comparison; and wherein matching the identified second payload descriptor to a second known payload descriptor comprises matching the identified second payload descriptor to the second known payload descriptors using a fuzzy logic comparison.
20. A system for reading barcodes, comprising: an imaging assembly configured to capture an image of a target, the target including: (i) a symbol encoding a payload data, and (ii) a set of one or more alphanumeric characters containing a payload descriptor associated with the symbol; a memory configured to store computer executable instructions; and at least one processor configured to interface with the image capture device and the memory, and configured to execute the computer executable instructions to cause the at least one processor to: decode the symbol to extract the payload data; perform an optical character recognition analysis on the set of one or more alphanumeric characters to identify the payload descriptor associated with the symbol; associate the payload data with the payload descriptor, resulting in an associated pair; and forward the associated pair for further processing of the payload data based on the payload descriptor.
</claims>
</document>
