<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/14,G01V1/50,G02B6/44,G06F17/18,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CONOCOPHILLIPS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIN, GE
ROY, BAISHALI
Mendoza, Kevin
Buswell, Darryl G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE-LEARNING BASED FRACTURE-HIT DETECTION USING LOW-FREQUENCY DAS SIGNAL
</title>

<abstract>
Various aspects described herein relate to a machine learning based detecting of fracture hits in offset monitoring wells when designing hydraulic fracturing processes for a particular well. In one example, a computer-implemented method includes receiving a set of features for a first well proximate to a second well, the second well undergoing a hydraulic fracturing process for extraction of natural resources from underground formations; inputting the set of features into a trained neural network; and providing, as output of the trained neural network, a probability of a fracture hit at a location associated with the set of features in the first well during a given completion stage of the hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a set of features for a first well proximate to a second well, the second well undergoing a hydraulic fracturing process for extraction of natural resources from underground formations; inputting the set of features into a trained neural network; and providing, as output of the trained neural network, a probability of a fracture hit at a location associated with the set of features in the first well during a given completion stage of the hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of features corresponding to an acoustic channel along a fiber optic cable used within the first well for distributed acoustic sensing of fracture hits in the first well from the second well.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the probability of the fracture hit is used in designing plug-and-pref hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: training the neural network using a set of low frequency distributed acoustic sensing based data collected from a network of wells formed of a plurality of pairs of injecting-monitoring well pairs.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the training includes manually identified fracture hits within the data, at one or more acoustic channels within one of more monitoring wells of the network.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of features includes: a first summation strain rate at the location during a set period; first filtered data corresponding to the first summation strain rate; a second summation strain rate at the location after the set period; second filtered data corresponding to the second summation strain rate; a Root Mean Square (RMS) of individual channel amplitudes during the set period; third filtered data corresponding to the RMS; a sum of absolute values of a difference between an acoustic channel corresponding to the location and locations that are a threshold number of acoustic channels apart from the acoustic channel; and fourth filtered data corresponding to the sum of the absolute values.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second well is a horizontal well.
8. A device comprising: one or more memories having computer-readable instructions stored therein; and one or more processors configured to execute the computer-readable instructions to: receive a set of features for a first well proximate to a second well, the second well undergoing a hydraulic fracturing process for extraction of natural resources from underground formations; input the set of features into a trained neural network; and provide, as output of the trained neural network, a probability of a fracture hit at a location associated with the set of features in the first well during a given completion stage of the hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the set of features corresponding to an acoustic channel along a fiber optic cable used within the first well for distributed acoustic sensing of fracture hits in the first well from the second well.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the probability of the fracture hit is used in designing plug-and-pref hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the computer-readable instructions to train the neural network using a set of low frequency distributed acoustic sensing based data collected from a network of wells formed of a plurality of pairs of injecting-monitoring well pairs.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute the computer-readable instructions to train the neural network based on manually identified fracture hits within the data, at one or more acoustic channels within one of more monitoring wells of the network.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the set of features includes: a first summation strain rate at the location during a set period; first filtered data corresponding to the first summation strain rate; a second summation strain rate at the location after the set period; second filtered data corresponding to the second summation strain rate; a Root Mean Square (RMS) of individual channel amplitudes during the set period; third filtered data corresponding to the RMS; a sum of absolute values of a difference between an acoustic channel corresponding to the location and locations that are a threshold number of acoustic channels apart from the acoustic channel; and fourth filtered data corresponding to the sum of the absolute values.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the second well is a horizontal well.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media comprising computer-readable instructions, which when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a set of features for a first well proximate to a second well, the second well undergoing a hydraulic fracturing process for extraction of natural resources from underground formations; input the set of features into a trained neural network; and provide, as output of the trained neural network, a probability of a fracture hit at a location associated with the set of features in the first well during a given completion stage of the hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the set of features corresponding to an acoustic channel along a fiber optic cable used within the first well for distributed acoustic sensing of fracture hits in the first well from the second well.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the probability of the fracture hit is used in designing plug-and-pref hydraulic fracturing process in the second well.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein execution of the computer-readable instructions further cause the one or more processors to train the neural network using a set of low frequency distributed acoustic sensing based data collected from a network of wells formed of a plurality of pairs of injecting-monitoring well pairs.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 18, wherein execution of the computer-readable instructions further cause the one or more processors to train the neural network based on manually identified fracture hits within the data, at one or more acoustic channels within one of more monitoring wells of the network.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the set of features includes: a first summation strain rate at the location during a set period; first filtered data corresponding to the first summation strain rate; a second summation strain rate at the location after the set period; second filtered data corresponding to the second summation strain rate; a Root Mean Square (RMS) of individual channel amplitudes during the set period; third filtered data corresponding to the RMS; a sum of absolute values of a difference between an acoustic channel corresponding to the location and locations that are a threshold number of acoustic channels apart from the acoustic channel; and fourth filtered data corresponding to the sum of the absolute values.
</claims>
</document>
