<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/113,A61B5/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHILDREN'S HEALTH CARE OF ATLANTA
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, WARREN
KLIN, AMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51656060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING INFANT AND CHILD DEVELOPMENT VIA EYE TRACKING
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and methods are described for assessing the risk of developmental, cognitive, social, or mental abilities or disabilities in very young patients (e.g., in the first 2-6 months of life). Generally, the decline in visual fixation of a subject over time with respect to certain dynamic stimuli provides a marker of possible abilities or disabilities (such as ASD). The visual fixation of the subject is identified, monitored, and tracked over time through repeated eye tracking sessions, and data relating to the visual fixation is then analyzed to determine a possible increased risk certain conditions in the subject. A change in visual fixation as compared to similar visual fixation data of typically-developing subjects or to a subject's own, prior visual fixation data provides an indication of a developmental, cognitive, or mental ability or disability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-29. (canceled)
30. A method for identifying a change in visual fixation of an individual over time, comprising the steps of: receiving a first data set collected from an eye tracking device indicative of an individual's visual fixation with respect to a first visual stimulus, wherein the individual's visual fixation corresponds to at least one spatial region-of-interest in the first visual stimulus; receiving a second data set collected from the eye tracking device indicative of the individual's visual fixation with respect to a second visual stimulus, wherein the individual's visual fixation corresponds to at least one spatial region-of-interest in the second visual stimulus, and wherein the second data set was collected during a second session performed after a first session in which the first data set was collected; generating, via software executing on a processor, a representation of the first data set and the second data set, wherein the representation demonstrates visual fixation with respect to the at least one spatial region-of-interest; and calculating, via software executing on a processor, a rate-of-change in visual fixation for the individual from the first session to the second session based on the representation of the first data set and the second data set, wherein the rate-of-change in visual fixation from the first session to the second session for the individual is a marker of a developmental, cognitive, social, or mental disability or ability.
31. The method of 30, wherein the at least one spatial region-of-interest is predefined.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein the at least one spatial region-of-interest comprises at least one discrete region of visual space.
33. The method of claim 32, wherein the at least one discrete region of visual space is measured in degrees of visual angle equal to at least twice the minimum resolvable accuracy of the first data set or the second data set with 95% statistical confidence.
34. The method of claim 30, wherein the rate-of-change in visual fixation comprises a decline in visual fixation of the individual with respect to the at least one spatial region-of-interest.
35. The method of claim 30, wherein the rate-of-change in visual fixation of the individual comprises a deviation in visual fixation that is statistically different from a change in visual fixation measured in a comparison group of individuals.
36. The method of claim 30, wherein the representation comprises a graphical representation of the individual's visual fixation from the first session to the second session.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the graphical representation of the individual's visual fixation comprises one or more graduated lines marking measures of variance with respect to a comparison group.
38. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus and/or the second visual stimulus comprise one or more of the following: a static visual stimulus, a dynamic visual stimulus, a pre-recorded visual stimulus, a pre-recorded audiovisual stimulus, a live visual stimulus, a live audiovisual stimulus, a two-dimensional stimulus, or a three-dimensional stimulus.
39. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus and/or the second visual stimulus are normed for eliciting specific eye movement responses with greater than 95% statistical confidence.
40. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus and/or the second visual stimulus elicit eye movement responses to discrete spatial-temporal locations with greater than 95% statistical confidence.
41. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus and/or the second visual stimulus have measurable presentation durations equal to at least half the minimum eye movement fixation duration for the individual.
42. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus is the same as the second visual stimulus.
43. The method of claim 30, wherein the first visual stimulus is different from the second visual stimulus.
44. The method of claim 30, wherein the first data set and the second data set are collected via a data collection apparatus within which the individual is positioned during data collection.
45. The method of claim 44 wherein the data collection apparatus is specifically adapted for individuals less than 24 months old.
46. The method of claim 44, wherein the data collection apparatus is specifically adapted for individuals less than 6 months old.
47. The method of claim 44, wherein the data collection apparatus includes a support device for seating and confining the individual in a predetermined orientation with respect to the eye tracking device and a display device for displaying the first visual stimulus and the second visual stimulus.
48. The method of claim 44, wherein the data collection apparatus includes a support device for linearly positioning the individual with respect to the display device such that a linear distance from the display device to the individual's eyes is minimized, while the available dynamic focal range of the eye tracking device is maximized.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the linear distance is in a range of about 40-80 cm and wherein the available dynamic focal range is about 50-70 cm.
50. The method of claim 44, wherein the data collection apparatus includes a support device for rotationally positioning the individual's head and eyes in a rotational position with respect to the display device such that eyelid separation, when not blinking, is maximized at the widest physical distance, while occlusion of the cornea by the eyelid is minimized or eliminated.
51. The method of claim 50, wherein the rotational position of the head of the individual with respect to the display device is tilted forwards and downwards in a range of about 0-24 degrees.
52. The method of claim 47, wherein the predetermined orientation comprises a position of the individual such that the individual's eyes are about 60 cm from the display device and the eye tracking device, the head of the individual is tilted at an angle forwards and downwards at about 12 degrees, and the position is maintained by head and neck supports.
53. The method of claim 30, wherein the first session and the second session occur at two of the following ages of the individual: 2 months old, 3 months old, 4 months old, 5 months old, 6 months old, 9 months old, 12 months old, 15 months old, 18 months old, and 24 months old.
54. The method of claim 30, wherein the first session and second session are separated by a predetermined time period.
55. The method of claim 54, wherein the predetermined time period is at least one calendar month.
56. The method of claim 30, further comprising the step of scrubbing the first data set and/or the second data set to remove poor quality data points based on insufficient data collection and/or poor quality data calibration.
57. 57-87. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
