<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Genes, Yunus
Plaza, Victor Sevillano
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POPULATION DENSITY DETERMINATION FROM MULTI-CAMERA SOURCED IMAGERY
</title>

<abstract>
A method for determining population density of a defined space from multi-camera sourced imagery includes loading a set of images acquired from multiple different cameras positioned about the defined space, locating different individuals within each of the images and computing a population distribution of the located different individuals in respect to different locations of the defined space. The method additionally includes submitting each of the images to a convolutional neural network as training data, each in association with a correspondingly computed population distribution. Subsequent to the submission, contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras is acquired in real time and submitted to the neural network, in response to which, a predicted population distribution for the defined space is received from the neural network. Finally, a message is displayed that includes information correlating at least a portion of the population distribution with a specific location of the defined space.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A method for determining population density of a defined space from multi-camera sourced imagery comprising: loading into memory of a computer data processing system, a set of images each acquired from a different one of a set of multiple different cameras positioned about the defined space; locating different individuals within each of the images and computing a population distribution of the located different individuals in respect to different locations of the defined space; submitting each of the images to a convolutional neural network as training data, each in association with a correspondingly computed population distribution; subsequent to the submission of the images to the neural network as training data, acquiring in real-time, contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; and, displaying a message in a display of the computer data processing system, the message encapsulating information correlating at least a portion of the population distribution with a specific location of the defined space.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the message includes a heat map of the defined space in respect to the population distribution received from the neural network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlating includes an indication of a threshold density of individuals at the specific location.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the threshold density is a density that falls below threshold maximum number of individuals at the specific location.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the threshold density is a density that surpasses threshold minimum number of individuals at the specific location.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: repeatedly acquiring in real-time, newer contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the newer contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response to each submission from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; computing a rate of change of the predicted population distribution in connection with the specific location based upon the receipt of a multiplicity of predicted population distributions for the defined space; and, displaying an alert in the display responsive to the rate of change exceeding a threshold value.
7. An image acquisition computer data processing system configured to determine population density of a defined space from multi-camera sourced imagery, the system comprising: a host computing system comprising one or more computers, each with at least one processor and memory; a multiplicity of different cameras positioned about a defined space and communicatively coupled to the host computing system; a data store of previously acquired imagery of the defined space by the different cameras; and, a population density determination module comprising program instructions enabled during execution in the memory of the host computing system to perform: loading into the memory from the data store, a set of previously acquired images, locating different individuals within each of the images and computing a population distribution of the located different individuals in respect to different locations of the defined space; submitting each of the images to a convolutional neural network as training data, each in association with a correspondingly computed population distribution; subsequent to the submission of the images to the neural network as training data, acquiring in real-time, contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; and, displaying a message in a display of the host computing system, the message encapsulating information correlating at least a portion of the population distribution with a specific location of the defined space.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the message includes a heat map of the defined space in respect to the population distribution received from the neural network.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the correlating includes an indication of a threshold density of individuals at the specific location.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the threshold density is a density that falls below threshold maximum number of individuals at the specific location.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the threshold density is a density that surpasses threshold minimum number of individuals at the specific location.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the program instructions are further enabled to perform: repeatedly acquiring in real-time, newer contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the newer contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response to each submission from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; computing a rate of change of the predicted population distribution in connection with the specific location based upon the receipt of a multiplicity of predicted population distributions for the defined space; and, displaying an alert in the display responsive to the rate of change exceeding a threshold value.
13. A computer program product for determining population density of a defined space from multi-camera sourced imagery, the computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to perform a method including: loading into memory of a computer data processing system, a set of images each acquired from a different one of a set of multiple different cameras positioned about the defined space; locating different individuals within each of the images and computing a population distribution of the located different individuals in respect to different locations of the defined space; submitting each of the images to a convolutional neural network as training data, each in association with a correspondingly computed population distribution; subsequent to the submission of the images to the neural network as training data, acquiring in real-time, contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; and, displaying a message in a display of the computer data processing system, the message encapsulating information correlating at least a portion of the population distribution with a specific location of the defined space.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the message includes a heat map of the defined space in respect to the population distribution received from the neural network.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the correlating includes an indication of a threshold density of individuals at the specific location.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the threshold density is a density that falls below threshold maximum number of individuals at the specific location.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the threshold density is a density that surpasses threshold minimum number of individuals at the specific location.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: repeatedly acquiring in real-time, newer contemporaneous imagery from the different cameras, submitting each of the newer contemporaneous imagery to the neural network, and receiving in response to each submission from the neural network, a predicted population distribution for the defined space; computing a rate of change of the predicted population distribution in connection with the specific location based upon the receipt of a multiplicity of predicted population distributions for the defined space; and, displaying an alert in the display responsive to the rate of change exceeding a threshold value.
</claims>
</document>
