<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC LABORATORIES AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRADHAR, SRIMAT
KRUUS, ERIK
SANKARADAS, MURUGAN
DEBNATH, BIPLOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423017
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OBJECT RECOGNIZER EMULATION
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for emulating an object recognizer includes receiving testing image data, and emulating, by employing a first object recognizer, a second object recognizer. Emulating the second object recognizer includes using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a testing object from the testing image data to generate data, the data including a feature representation for the testing object, and classifying the testing object based on the feature representation and a machine learning model configured to predict whether the testing object would be recognized by a second object recognizer. The method further includes triggering an action to be performed based on the classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for emulating an object recognizer, comprising: receiving, by an emulator associated with a computer system, testing image data; emulating, by the emulator employing a first object recognizer, a second object recognizer, including: using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a testing object from the testing image data to generate data, the data including a feature representation for the testing object; and classifying the testing object based on the feature representation and a machine learning model configured to predict whether the testing object would be recognized by a second object recognizer; and triggering, by the emulator, an action to be performed based on the classification.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is a binary classification model used to classify the testing object as a common object or an uncommon object.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data further includes a thumbnail of the testing object and a timestamp corresponding to when the testing object was detected.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising implementing a training stage, including: receiving training image data; using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a training object from the training image data to generate first data including a feature representation for the training object; using the second object recognizer to perform object recognition on the training object to generate second data including a label assigned to the training object; and building the machine learning model based on the first and second data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first data further includes a thumbnail of the training object and a timestamp corresponding to when the training object was detected.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer system includes a facial recognition system.
7. The method of claimed 6, wherein performing the action includes performing an action selected from the group consisting of: granting access to a service, denying access to a service, registering a user profile, prompting a user to submit a new image to complete registration, and combinations thereof.
8. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method for emulating an object recognizer, the method performed by the computer comprising: receiving, by an emulator associated with a computer system, testing image data; emulating, by the emulator employing a first object recognizer, a second object recognizer, including: using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a testing object from the testing image data to generate data, the data including a feature representation for the testing object; and classifying the testing object based on the feature representation and a machine learning model configured to predict whether the testing object would be recognized by a second object recognizer; and triggering, by the emulator, an action to be performed based on the classification.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the machine learning model is a binary classification model used to classify the testing object as a common object or an uncommon object.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the data further includes a thumbnail of the testing object and a timestamp corresponding to when the testing object was detected.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the method further includes implementing a training stage, including: receiving training image data; using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a training object from the training image data to generate first data including a feature representation for the training object; using the second object recognizer to perform object recognition on the training object to generate second data including a label assigned to the training object; and building the machine learning model based on the first and second data.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the first data further includes a thumbnail of the training object and a timestamp corresponding to when the training object was detected.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the computer system includes a facial recognition system.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein performing the action includes performing an action selected from the group consisting of: granting access to a service, denying access to a service, registering a user profile, prompting a user to submit a new image to complete registration, and combinations thereof.
15. A system for emulating an object recognizer, comprising: an emulator including at least one processor device operatively coupled to a memory device and configured to execute program code stored on the memory device to: receive testing image data; emulate, by employing a first object recognizer, a second object recognizer by: using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a testing object from the testing image data to generate data, the data including a feature representation for the testing object; and classifying the testing object based on the feature representation and a machine learning model configured to predict whether the testing object would be recognized by a second object recognizer; and trigger an action to be performed based on the classification.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the machine learning model is a binary classification model used to classify the testing object as a common object or an uncommon object.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the data further includes a thumbnail of the testing object and a timestamp corresponding to when the testing object was detected.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one processor device is further configured to execute program code stored on the memory device to implement a training stage by: receiving training image data; using the first object recognizer to perform object recognition on a training object from the training image data to generate first data including a feature representation for the training object; using the second object recognizer to perform object recognition on the training object to generate second data including a label assigned to the training object; and building the machine learning model based on the first and second data.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the system includes a facial recognition system.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the action is selected from the group consisting of: granting access to a service, denying access to a service, registering a user profile, prompting a user to submit a new image to complete registration, and combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
