<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9038,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FAIR IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
Schoeny, Clayton Maxwell
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745600
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA PROCESSING SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RANKING VEHICLES AND TUNING A RANKING ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and products for tuning a set of weights for a ranking engine in an automotive data processing system. In one embodiment, a method includes tracking user interactions with an automotive data processing system and identifying, for each user, a corresponding list of vehicles of interest. For each of a plurality of weight sets corresponding to a plurality of ranking factors, vehicles in the user vehicle lists are ranked and scored. The ranking factors include both consumer-facing factors and business-facing factors. These scores are summed to generate an aggregate performance score for the ranking engine using the weight set. This ranking and scoring of the lists and generating an aggregate performance score is repeated for multiple potential weight sets, and the weight set with the best aggregate performance score is implemented as a new working weight set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for tuning a set of weights for a ranking engine in an automotive data processing system, the method comprising: tracking user interactions with an automotive data processing system; identifying, for each of a plurality of users, a corresponding list of vehicles in which the user has indicated interest through the user interactions; for each of a plurality of weight sets, wherein each weight set includes a weight corresponding to each of a plurality of ranking factors, ranking, for each of the plurality of users, the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles using the weight set, generating, for each list of vehicles, a corresponding ranking score, generating an aggregate performance score based on the ranking scores for the lists of vehicles, and storing the aggregate performance score with an indication of the corresponding weight set; comparing the aggregate performance scores corresponding to the plurality of weight sets; identifying a weight set that has a best corresponding performance; and implementing the identified weight set as a working weight set for the ranking engine.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ranking factors include one or more consumer-facing factors which are based on information that is visible to users of the automotive data processing system and one or more business-facing factors which are based on information that is not visible to users of the automotive data processing system.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the consumer-facing factors include at least a price factor and a location factor.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the business-facing factors include one or more of: a deal value factor, a reserved vehicle factor, and a dealer responsiveness factor.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the automotive data processing system presenting to each of the users a plurality of vehicles; wherein, for each of the plurality of users, identifying the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles comprises identifying vehicles that the user has either viewed or liked; wherein tracking user interactions comprises, for each user, determining whether each of the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles has been either viewed or liked by the user and storing an indication of the vehicle and whether the vehicle has been viewed or liked by the user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the list of vehicles corresponding to each user excludes vehicles that have been neither viewed nor liked by the user.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the ranking score for each list of vehicles is generated by: for each non-liked vehicle in the list, assigning to the non-liked vehicle a point for each liked vehicle in the list which is ranked below the non-liked vehicle; and summing the points for all of the non-liked vehicles in the list of vehicles.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the aggregate performance score for each of the plurality of weight sets is generated by summing the corresponding ranking scores for all of the lists of vehicles.
9. The method of claim 5, further comprising; ranking, by the ranking engine, the plurality of vehicles; and presenting, by the automotive data processing system, the plurality of vehicles according to the ranking of the plurality of vehicles.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to tracking the user interactions with the automotive data processing system, generating a ranking of all of the plurality of vehicles based on a current working weight set, wherein the current working weight set is included in the plurality of weight sets.
11. An automotive data processing system comprising: one or more processors communicatively coupled to one or more data storage devices, the one or more processors coupled to a non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions which are executable by the processor to cause the processor to perform: tracking user interactions with an automotive data processing system; identifying, for each of a plurality of users, a corresponding list of vehicles in which the user has indicated interest through the user interactions; for each of a plurality of weight sets, wherein each weight set includes a weight corresponding to each of a plurality of ranking factors, ranking, for each of the plurality of users, the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles using the weight set, generating, for each list of vehicles, a corresponding ranking score, generating an aggregate performance score based on the ranking scores for the lists of vehicles, and storing the aggregate performance score with an indication of the corresponding weight set; comparing the aggregate performance scores corresponding to the plurality of weight sets; identifying a weight set that has a best corresponding performance; and implementing the identified weight set as a working weight set for the ranking engine.
12. The automotive data processing system of claim 11, wherein the ranking factors include one or more consumer-facing factors which are based on information that is visible to users of the automotive data processing system and one or more business-facing factors which are based on information that is not visible to users of the automotive data processing system.
13. The automotive data processing system of claim 12, wherein the consumer-facing factors include at least a price factor and a location factor; and wherein the business-facing factors include one or more of a deal value factor, a reserved vehicle factor, and a dealer responsiveness factor.
14. The automotive data processing system of claim 11, further comprising the automotive data processing system presenting to each of the users a plurality of vehicles; wherein, for each of the plurality of users, identifying the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles comprises identifying vehicles that the user has either viewed or liked; wherein tracking user interactions comprises, for each user, determining whether each of the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles has been either viewed or liked by the user and storing an indication of the vehicle and whether the vehicle has been viewed or liked by the user.
15. The automotive data processing system of claim 14, wherein the list of vehicles corresponding to each user excludes vehicles that have been neither viewed nor liked by the user; wherein the ranking score for each list of vehicles is generated by: for each non-liked vehicle in the list, assigning to the non-liked vehicle a point for each liked vehicle in the list which is ranked below the non-liked vehicle; and summing the points for all of the non-liked vehicles in the list of vehicles; and wherein the aggregate performance score for each of the plurality of weight sets is generated by summing the corresponding ranking scores for all of the lists of vehicles.
16. A computer program product for generating vehicle encodings, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform: tracking user interactions with an automotive data processing system; identifying, for each of a plurality of users, a corresponding list of vehicles in which the user has indicated interest through the user interactions; for each of a plurality of weight sets, wherein each weight set includes a weight corresponding to each of a plurality of ranking factors, ranking, for each of the plurality of users, the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles using the weight set, generating, for each list of vehicles, a corresponding ranking score, generating an aggregate performance score based on the ranking scores for the lists of vehicles, and storing the aggregate performance score with an indication of the corresponding weight set; comparing the aggregate performance scores corresponding to the plurality of weight sets; identifying a weight set that has a best corresponding performance; and implementing the identified weight set as a working weight set for the ranking engine.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the ranking factors include one or more consumer-facing factors which are based on information that is visible to users of the automotive data processing system and one or more business-facing factors which are based on information that is not visible to users of the automotive data processing system.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the consumer-facing factors include at least a price factor and a location factor; and wherein the business-facing factors include one or more of a deal value factor, a reserved vehicle factor, and a dealer responsiveness factor.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising the automotive data processing system presenting to each of the users a plurality of vehicles; wherein, for each of the plurality of users, identifying the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles comprises identifying vehicles that the user has either viewed or liked; wherein tracking user interactions comprises, for each user, determining whether each of the vehicles in the corresponding list of vehicles has been either viewed or liked by the user and storing an indication of the vehicle and whether the vehicle has been viewed or liked by the user.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the list of vehicles corresponding to each user excludes vehicles that have been neither viewed nor liked by the user; wherein the ranking score for each list of vehicles is generated by: for each non-liked vehicle in the list, assigning to the non-liked vehicle a point for each liked vehicle in the list which is ranked below the non-liked vehicle; and summing the points for all of the non-liked vehicles in the list of vehicles; and wherein the aggregate performance score for each of the plurality of weight sets is generated by summing the corresponding ranking scores for all of the lists of vehicles.
</claims>
</document>
