<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTH, TOVA
PINEL, FLORIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586400
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PREDICTING THE CROWDEDNESS OF A LOCATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention disclose a method, a computer program product, and a computer system for predicting a crowdedness of a location. In the example embodiment, a computer receives a location and defines a geofence around the location. In addition, the computer collects current feature data of users within the geofence and predicts a crowdedness of the location based on inputting the current feature data into a model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for predicting a crowdedness of a location, the method comprising: receiving a location; and predicting a crowdedness of the location based on a model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is trained by: defining one or more geofences around one or more locations; defining one or more features of the one or more locations; collecting historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences; and calculating one or more coefficients corresponding to the one or more features based on the collected historic data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein predicting the crowdedness of the location based on the model further comprises: collecting current data relevant to the one or more features within a geofence of the location; and inputting the current data into the model.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein collecting historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences further comprises: filtering non-consumers present within a geofence of the location from the collected historic data; and normalizing the collected historic data.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more features of the one or more locations are selected from the group consisting of: a number of users during a same N day period in a prior year, a number of users on a N most recent same week days, a number of users in a past N days, a number of users on a same N day period in a prior month, the number of users a day before, a number of users within an N mile radius within a past day, a percent chance of precipitation, a temperature, a windspeed, a humidity, a UV index, a time of sunrise, and a time of sunset.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: outputting the predicted crowdedness of the location as a metric selected from the group consisting of: a number of estimated users, a percentage indicative of crowdedness relative to average crowds, a ratio of users to an area of a geofence of the location, a ratio of users to employees of the location, and a ratio of users to parking.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: periodically retraining the model based on a feature selected from the group consisting of: seasons, holidays, annual events, and sporting events.
8. A computer program product for predicting a crowdedness of a location, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer-readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer-readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive a location; and program instructions to predict a crowdedness of the location based on a model.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the model is trained by: program instructions to define one or more geofences around one or more locations; program instructions to define one or more features of the one or more locations; program instructions to collect historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences; and program instructions to calculate one or more coefficients corresponding to the one or more features based on the collected historic data.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the program instructions to predict the crowdedness of the location based on the model further comprises: program instructions to collect current data relevant to the one or more features within a geofence of the location; and program instructions to input the current data into the model.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the program instructions to collect historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences further comprises: program instructions to filter non-consumers present within a geofence of the location from the collected historic data; and program instructions to normalize the collected historic data.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the one or more features of the one or more locations are selected from the group consisting of: a number of users during a same N day period in a prior year, a number of users on a N most recent same week days, a number of users in a past N days, a number of users on a same N day period in a prior month, the number of users a day before, a number of users within an N mile radius within a past day, a percent chance of precipitation, a temperature, a windspeed, a humidity, a UV index, a time of sunrise, and a time of sunset.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: program instructions to output the predicted crowdedness of the location as a metric selected from the group consisting of: a number of estimated users, a percentage indicative of crowdedness relative to average crowds, a ratio of users to an area of a geofence of the location, a ratio of users to employees of the location, and a ratio of users to parking.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: program instructions to periodically retrain the model based on a feature selected from the group consisting of: seasons, holidays, annual events, and sporting events.
15. A computer system for predicting a crowdedness of a location, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors, one or more computer-readable storage media, and program instructions stored on one or more of the computer-readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive a location; and program instructions to predict a crowdedness of the location based on a model.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the model is trained by: program instructions to define one or more geofences around one or more locations; program instructions to define one or more features of the one or more locations; program instructions to collect historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences; and program instructions to calculate one or more coefficients corresponding to the one or more features based on the collected historic data.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the program instructions to predict the crowdedness of the location based on the model further comprises: program instructions to collect current data relevant to the one or more features within a geofence of the location; and program instructions to input the current data into the model.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the program instructions to collect historic data relevant to the one or more features within the one or more geofences further comprises: program instructions to filter non-consumers present within a geofence of the location from the collected historic data; and program instructions to normalize the collected historic data.
19. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the one or more features of the one or more locations are selected from the group consisting of: a number of users during a same N day period in a prior year, a number of users on a N most recent same week days, a number of users in a past N days, a number of users on a same N day period in a prior month, the number of users a day before, a number of users within an N mile radius within a past day, a percent chance of precipitation, a temperature, a windspeed, a humidity, a UV index, a time of sunrise, and a time of sunset.
20. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to output the predicted crowdedness of the location as a metric selected from the group consisting of: a number of estimated users, a percentage indicative of crowdedness relative to average crowds, a ratio of users to an area of a geofence of the location, a ratio of users to employees of the location, and a ratio of users to parking.
</claims>
</document>
