<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/06,G01N15/08,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, YOUNGSUB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR PREDICTING FILTER OF AIR PURIFIER USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method of predicting the lifespan of a filter in an air cleaner based on machine learning. According to an embodiment of the present disclosure, a machine learning-based filter lifespan prediction method may more precisely predict the lifespan of a filter in an air cleaner by inputting fine dust concentration data and a history related to use of the air cleaner to a lifespan prediction model and determining the purifying efficiency and exchange time of the filter according to an output value. Intelligent air cleaner of the present disclosure can be associated with artificial intelligence modules, drones (unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)), robots, augmented reality (AR) devices, virtual reality (VR) devices, devices related to 5G service, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting lifespan of a filter in an air cleaner, the method comprising: obtaining, via a sensor, first fine dust concentration data that includes a fine dust concentration of a space within which the air cleaner is placed; receiving, from an external server, second fine dust concentration data that includes an outdoor fine dust concentration in an outside area to where the air cleaner is placed; obtaining, from memory, history data related to usage of the air cleaner; providing the first fine dust concentration data, the second fine dust concentration data, and the history data, to a lifespan prediction model for generating an output value; and determining a purifying efficiency and exchange time of the filter according to the output value.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fine dust concentration data includes at least one of an indoor fine dust concentration before filtering operations of the air cleaner or an indoor fine dust concentration after filtering operations of the air cleaner.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the history data includes at least one of a user history, an exchange cycle of the filter, or an operation time after which the filter has been exchanged.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the lifespan prediction model is a previously trained artificial neural network model, with exchange time of the filter being set as training data, and wherein the exchange time of the filter varies depending on data of the history data that relates to use of the air cleaner and the first fine dust concentration data and the second fine dust concentration data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein information regarding the exchange time includes a remaining lifespan of the filter of the air cleaner.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: displaying, on a display, information regarding the exchange time of the filter.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: displaying, on a display, a state of the filter in a different color depending on a remaining lifespan of the filter.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: calculating variation in fine dust concentration based on the first fine dust concentration data obtained from the sensor while operating the air cleaner; and stopping the operating of the air cleaner based on the variation in the fine dust concentration being less than a preset threshold and the filter not being exchanged at an exchange time of the filter.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting a feature from the history data, the first fine dust concentration data, and the second fine dust concentration data; providing the feature to the lifespan prediction model for generating a second output value; and determining the purifying efficiency and the exchange time of the filter according to the second output value of the lifespan prediction model.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling a communication interface to transmit the history data, the first fine dust concentration data, and the second fine dust concentration data, to an artificial intelligence (AI) processor included in a five-generation (5G) network; and controlling the communication interface to receive AI-processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI-processed information includes the purifying efficiency and the exchange time of the filter.
11. An intelligent air cleaner, comprising: a memory; a sensor; a transceiver; and a processor configured to: obtain, via the sensor, first fine dust concentration data that includes a fine dust concentration of a space within which the air cleaner is placed; receive, from an external server via the transceiver, second fine dust concentration data that includes an outdoor fine dust concentration in an outside area to where the air cleaner is placed; obtain, from the memory, history data related to usage of the air cleaner; provide the first fine dust concentration data, the second fine dust concentration data, and the history data, to a lifespan prediction model for generating an output value; and determine a purifying efficiency and exchange time of the filter according to the output value.
12. The air cleaner of claim 11, wherein the first fine dust concentration data includes at least one of an indoor fine dust concentration before filtering operations of the air cleaner or an indoor fine dust concentration after filtering operations of the air cleaner.
13. The air cleaner of claim 11, wherein the history data includes at least one of a user history, an exchange cycle of the filter, or an operation time after which the filter has been exchanged.
14. The air cleaner of claim 11, wherein the lifespan prediction model is a previously trained artificial neural network model, with exchange time of the filter being set as training data, and wherein the exchange time of the filter varies depending on data of the history data that relates to use of the air cleaner and the first fine dust concentration data and the second fine dust concentration data.
15. The air cleaner of claim 14, wherein information regarding the exchange time includes a remaining lifespan of the filter of the air cleaner.
16. The air cleaner of claim 15, further comprising: a display, wherein the processor is further configured to cause the display to display information regarding the exchange time of the filter.
17. The air cleaner of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to cause the display to display a state of the filter in a different color depending on a remaining lifespan of the filter.
18. The air cleaner of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: calculate variation in fine dust concentration based on the first fine dust concentration data obtained from the sensor while operating the air cleaner.
19. The air cleaner of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: stop the operating of the air cleaner based on the variation in the fine dust concentration being less than a preset threshold and the filter not being exchanged at an exchange time of the filter.
20. The air cleaner of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the transceiver to transmit the history data, the first fine dust concentration data, and the second fine dust concentration data, to an artificial intelligence (AI) processor included in a five-generation (5G) network; and control the communication interface to receive AI-processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI-processed information includes the purifying efficiency and the exchange time of the filter.
</claims>
</document>
