<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/02,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04B17/309,H04B17/318,H04L1/00,H04L1/18,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRONG FORCE IOT PORTFOLIO 2016
</assignee>

<inventors>
CELLA, CHARLES HOWARD
DESAI, MEHUL
DUFFY, JR., GERALD WILLIAM
MCGUCKIN, JEFFREY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS OF MACHINE SIGNALS FOR ANALYTICS AND MAINTENANCE USING THE INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS AND A MOBILE DATA COLLECTOR
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for causing a mobile data collector to perform a maintenance action on an industrial machine are disclosed. The mobile data collector can be deployed for detecting and monitoring vibration activity of a portion of an industrial machine. The mobile data collector can be controlled to approach a location of the industrial machine such that a vibration sensor of the mobile data collector can record a measurement of the vibration activity. The measurement of the vibration activity can be transmitted as vibration data to a server over a network, which can determine a severity of the vibration activity and predict a maintenance action to perform based on the severity of the vibration activity. A signal indicative of the maintenance action can be transmitted to the mobile data collector to cause the mobile data collector to perform the maintenance action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: deploying a mobile data collector for detecting and monitoring vibration activity of at least a portion of an industrial machine, the mobile data collector including one or more vibration sensors; controlling the mobile data collector to approach a location of the industrial machine within an industrial environment that includes the industrial machine; causing the one or more vibration sensors of the mobile data collector to record one or more measurements of the vibration activity; transmitting the one or more measurements of the vibration activity as vibration data to a server over a network; determining, at the server, a severity of the vibration activity relative to timing by processing the vibration data; predicting, at the server, a maintenance action to perform with respect to at least the portion of the industrial machine based on the severity of the vibration activity; and transmitting a signal indicative of the maintenance action to the mobile data collector to cause the mobile data collector to perform the maintenance action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the severity of the vibration data relative to the timing by processing the vibration data comprises: determining a frequency of the vibration activity by processing the vibration data; determining, based on the frequency, a segment of a multi-segment vibration frequency spectra that bounds the vibration activity; and calculating a severity unit for the vibration activity based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein calculating the severity unit for the vibration activity based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra comprises: mapping the vibration activity to the severity unit based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra by: mapping the vibration activity to a first severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to a below a low-end knee threshold-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra; mapping the vibration activity to a second severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to a mid-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra; and mapping the vibration activity to a third severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to an above a high-end knee threshold-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein predicting the one or more maintenance actions to perform with respect to at least the portion of the industrial machine based on the severity of the vibration activity comprises: using intelligent systems associated with the server to process the vibration data against pre-recorded data for the industrial machine, wherein processing the vibration data against the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine includes identifying the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine within a knowledge base associated with the industrial environment; identifying an operating characteristic of at least the portion of the machine based on the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine within the knowledge base; and predicting the one or more maintenance actions based on the operating characteristic.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the vibration activity is indicative of a waveform derived from a vibration envelope associated with the industrial machine, wherein the one or more vibration sensors detect the vibration activity when the mobile data collector is in near proximity to the industrial machine.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the vibration activity represents velocity information for at least the portion of the industrial machine.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the vibration activity represents frequency information for at least the portion of the industrial machine.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile data collector is one of a plurality of mobile data collectors of a mobile data collector swarm.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: using self-organization systems of the mobile data collector swarm to control movements of the mobile data collector within an industrial environment that includes the industrial machine, wherein the one or more vibration sensors detect the vibration activity when the mobile data collector is in near proximity to the industrial machine.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein using the self-organization systems of the mobile data collector swarm to control the movements of the mobile data collector within the industrial environment comprises: controlling the movements of the mobile data collector within the industrial environment based on movements of at least one other mobile data collector of the plurality of mobile data collectors.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the mobile data collector is a mobile robot and at least one other mobile data collector of the plurality of mobile data collectors is a mobile vehicle.
12. A method comprising: deploying a mobile data collector for detecting and monitoring vibration activity of at least a portion of an industrial machine, the mobile data collector including one or more vibration sensors; controlling the mobile data collector to approach a location of the industrial machine within an industrial environment that includes the industrial machine; causing the one or more vibration sensors of the mobile data collector to record one or more measurements of the vibration activity; transmitting the one or more measurements of the vibration activity as vibration data to a server over a network; determining, at the server, a frequency of the vibration activity by processing the vibration data; determining, at the server and based on the frequency, a segment of a multi-segment vibration frequency spectra that bounds the vibration activity; calculating, at the server, a severity unit for the vibration activity based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra; predicting, at the server, a maintenance action to perform with respect to at least the portion of the industrial machine based on the severity unit; and transmitting a signal indicative of the maintenance action to the mobile data collector to cause the mobile data collector to perform the maintenance action.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein calculating the severity unit for the vibration activity based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra comprises: mapping the vibration activity to the severity unit based on the determined segment of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra by: mapping the vibration activity to a first severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to a below a low-end knee threshold-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra; mapping the vibration activity to a second severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to a mid-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra; and mapping the vibration activity to a third severity unit when the frequency of the vibration activity corresponds to an above a high-end knee threshold-range of the multi-segment vibration frequency spectra.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein predicting the one or more maintenance actions to perform with respect to at least the portion of the industrial machine based on the severity unit comprises: using intelligent systems associated with the server to process the vibration data against pre-recorded data for the industrial machine, wherein processing the vibration data against the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine includes identifying the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine within a knowledge base associated with the industrial environment; identifying an operating characteristic of at least the portion of the machine based on the pre-recorded data for the industrial machine within the knowledge base; and predicting the one or more maintenance actions based on the operating characteristic.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the vibration activity is indicative of a waveform derived from a vibration envelope associated with the industrial machine, wherein the one or more vibration sensors detect the vibration activity when the mobile data collector is in near proximity to the industrial machine.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the vibration activity represents velocity information for at least the portion of the industrial machine.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the vibration activity represents frequency information for at least the portion of the industrial machine.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the mobile data collector is one of a plurality of mobile data collectors of a mobile data collector swarm.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: using self-organization systems of the mobile data collector swarm to control movements of the mobile data collector within an industrial environment that includes the industrial machine, wherein the one or more vibration sensors detect the vibration activity when the mobile data collector is in near proximity to the industrial machine.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein using the self-organization systems of the mobile data collector swarm to control the movements of the mobile data collector within the industrial environment comprises: controlling the movements of the mobile data collector within the industrial environment based on movements of at least one other mobile data collector of the plurality of mobile data collectors.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein the mobile data collector is a mobile robot and at least one other mobile data collector of the plurality of mobile data collectors is a mobile vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
