<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06Q30/08,H04N1/60,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEEVE-MORRIS, CASSIDY JAKE
BOLES, ELIZABETH PATTON
FONG, CHIN LUNG
WU, YINING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67551767
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZING USER ENGAGEMENT WITH CONTENT BASED ON AN OPTIMAL SET OF ATTRIBUTES FOR MEDIA INCLUDED IN THE CONTENT
</title>

<abstract>
An online system identifies a candidate content item eligible for presentation to a viewing user of the online system, in which the candidate content item includes media (e.g., an image, a video, etc.). The online system identifies one or more media attributes for the media, such as color saturation, tone, brightness, sharpness, contrast, etc. The online system also predicts a value of a performance metric for the candidate content item that indicates a likelihood of user engagement with the candidate content item by the viewing user. For each modification that may be made to a media attribute, the online system predicts a change to the value of the performance metric. Based on the predicted change, the online system determines an optimal set of media attributes associated with a maximum predicted value of the performance metric. The online system modifies the media based on the optimal set of media attributes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying an opportunity to present content to a viewing user of an online system; identifying a candidate content item eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the identified candidate content item comprising media; identifying one or more media attributes for the media; predicting a value of a performance metric for the candidate content item indicating a likelihood of user engagement with the content item by the viewing user, the value of the performance metric predicted based at least in part on the one or more media attributes for the media; for each of one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes, predicting a change to the value of the performance metric; determining an optimal set of media attributes for the media associated with a maximum predicted value of the performance metric; and modifying the media comprising the candidate content item based at least in part on the determined optimal set of media attributes for the media.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ranking the candidate content item comprising the modified media among a set of candidate content items eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the ranking based at least in part on the maximum predicted value of the performance metric; selecting one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user based at least in part on the ranking; and sending the one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the value of the performance metric and the change to the value of the performance metric are predicted using a machine-learning model.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the machine-learning model is trained based at least in part on one or more selected from the group consisting of: a plurality of media attributes for a plurality of media included in content previously presented to a plurality of viewing users of the online system, one or more user attributes for the plurality of viewing users of the online system, and a plurality of values of the performance metric associated with previous presentations of the content.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein predicting the change to the value of the performance metric comprises: providing a set of inputs to the machine-learning model, the set of inputs comprising information describing the one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes for the media, information associated with the candidate content item, and a set of user attributes for the viewing user of the online system; and receiving a set of outputs from the machine-learning model, the set of outputs comprising information describing the change to the value of the performance metric.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media comprising the candidate content item are identified by the machine-learning model using a convolutional neural network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media comprise one or more selected from the group consisting of: a color saturation, a tone, a brightness, a sharpness, and a contrast.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes for the media are achieved using a filter.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more components comprising the media, wherein the one or more components are selected from the group consisting of: a logo, a flag, a trademark, an emblem, and an icon.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the optimal set of media attributes for the media associated with the maximum predicted value of the performance metric comprises: responsive to identifying the one or more components comprising the media, determining the optimal set of media attributes for the media corresponds to the one or more media attributes for the media.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein modifying the media comprising the candidate content item is further based at least in part on a maximum amount of modification to a set of the one or more media attributes for the media comprising the candidate content item.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the media is selected from the group consisting of: an image, a video, a 360-degree image, a 360-degree video, a rendering in virtual reality, and a rendering in augmented reality.
13. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: identify an opportunity to present content to a viewing user of an online system; identify a candidate content item eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the identified candidate content item comprising media; identify one or more media attributes for the media; for each of one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes, predict a change to the value of the performance metric; determine an optimal set of media attributes for the media associated with a maximum predicted value of the performance metric; and modify the media comprising the candidate content item based at least in part on the determined optimal set of media attributes for the media.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the computer readable storage medium further has instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: rank the candidate content item comprising the modified media among a set of candidate content items eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the ranking based at least in part on the maximum predicted value of the performance metric; select one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user based at least in part on the ranking; and send the one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein one or more of the value of the performance metric and the change to the value of the performance metric are predicted using a machine-learning model.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the machine-learning model is trained based at least in part on one or more selected from the group consisting of: a plurality of media attributes for a plurality of media included in content previously presented to a plurality of viewing users of the online system, one or more user attributes for the plurality of viewing users of the online system, and a plurality of values of the performance metric associated with previous presentations of the content.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein predict the change to the value of the performance metric comprises: provide a set of inputs to the machine-learning model, the set of inputs comprising information describing the one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes for the media, information associated with the candidate content item, and a set of user attributes for the viewing user of the online system; and receive a set of outputs from the machine-learning model, the set of outputs comprising information describing the change to the value of the performance metric.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media comprising the candidate content item are identified by the machine-learning model using a convolutional neural network.
19. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media comprise one or more selected from the group consisting of: a color saturation, a tone, a brightness, a sharpness, and a contrast.
20. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media are achieved using a filter.
21. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the computer readable storage medium further has instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: identify one or more components comprising the media, wherein the one or more components are selected from the group consisting of: a logo, a flag, a trademark, an emblem, and an icon.
22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein determine the optimal set of media attributes for the media associated with the maximum predicted value of the performance metric comprises: responsive to identifying the one or more components comprising the media, determine the optimal set of media attributes for the media corresponds to the one or more media attributes for the media.
23. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein modify the media comprising the candidate content item is further based at least in part on a maximum amount of modification to a set of the one or more media attributes for the media comprising the candidate content item.
24. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the media is selected from the group consisting of: an image, a video, a 360-degree image, a 360-degree video, a rendering in virtual reality, and a rendering in augmented reality.
25. A method comprising: identifying an opportunity to present content to a viewing user of an online system; identifying a candidate content item eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the identified candidate content item comprising media having one or more media attributes; for each of one or more modifications to the one or more media attributes, predicting a value of a performance metric for the candidate content item indicating a likelihood of user engagement with the content item by the viewing user; determining an optimal set of media attributes for the media associated with a maximum predicted value of the performance metric; and modifying the media comprising in the candidate content item based at least in part on the determined optimal set of media attributes for the media.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising: ranking the candidate content item comprising the modified media among a set of candidate content items eligible to be presented to the viewing user, the ranking based at least in part on the maximum predicted value of the performance metric; selecting one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user based at least in part on the ranking; and sending the one or more content items for presentation to the viewing user.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the one or more media attributes for the media comprise one or more selected from the group consisting of: a color saturation, a tone, a brightness, a sharpness, and a contrast.
28. The method of claim 25, wherein the media is selected from the group consisting of: an image, a video, a 360-degree image, a 360-degree video, a rendering in virtual reality, and a rendering in augmented reality.
</claims>
</document>
