<document>

<filing_date>
2020-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/233,H04N21/234,H04N21/24,H04N21/442,H04N21/647
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KERKES, JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848887
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND APPARATUS TO IDENTIFY MEDIA PRESENTATIONS BY ANALYZING NETWORK TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, systems and articles of manufacture are disclosed herein to identify media presentation by analyzing network traffic. Example instructions cause a machine to generate a traffic profile to reduce a computational burden of identifying streaming media being presented on a media presentation device, the traffic profile including first network traffic data indicative of the streaming media; obtain the traffic profile and second network traffic data corresponding to the streaming media; and generate, in response to a score for the second network traffic data meeting a threshold of similarity, a network traffic analysis report identifying the streaming media being presented on the media presentation device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a data correlator to correlate first network traffic data collected by a network meter to streaming data collected by a media presentation device meter; a network traffic data filter to determine second network traffic data that pertains to streaming media streaming on a streaming device, the second network traffic data based on the first network traffic data; and a profile generator to generate a traffic profile based on a relationship between the second network traffic data and the streaming media streaming on the streaming device to reduce a computational burden of identifying the streaming media, the traffic profile including network traffic data entries indicative of the streaming media.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the data correlator is to: obtain the first network traffic data via a network interface; and obtain a notification including at least an identity of the streaming device and the streaming data.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein, the first network traffic data includes at least one of domain names, IP addresses, URLs, MIME types, bandwidth, duration of events, and count of events.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein, the data correlator is to correlate the first network traffic data to the streaming data by associating the first network traffic data to a duration of the streaming media.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein, the network traffic data filter is to filter out excess network traffic data from the first network traffic data that is not related to the streaming device or the streaming media to determine the second network traffic data.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein, the relationship between the second network traffic data and the streaming media is based on correlating pertinent network traffic data to the streaming media.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein, the profile generator is to use the traffic profile and additional traffic profiles to modify the relationship between the second network traffic data and the streaming media to refine the pertinent network traffic data for the streaming media.
8. An apparatus comprising: a traffic profiler to generate a traffic profile to reduce a computational burden of identifying streaming media being presented on a media presentation device, the traffic profile including first network traffic data indicative of the streaming media; and a network traffic analyzer to: obtain the traffic profile and second network traffic data corresponding to the streaming media; and generate, in response to a score for the second network traffic data meeting a threshold of similarity, a network traffic analysis report identifying the streaming media being presented on the media presentation device.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the traffic profiler is to generate the traffic profile based on a relationship between the streaming media and the first network traffic data, the first network traffic data filtered from third network traffic data including excess network traffic data that does not pertain to the streaming media.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the score for the second network traffic data corresponds to similarity between the second network traffic data and the traffic profile, and the network traffic analyzer is to: generate the score for the second network traffic data and additional scores for the second network traffic data, the additional scores corresponding to similarities between the second network traffic data and additional traffic profiles, respectively; rank the score and the additional scores; and in response to a highest one of the ranked scores meeting the threshold of similarity, generate the network traffic analysis report.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the network traffic analyzer is to, in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores does not meet the threshold of similarity, determine whether the highest one of the ranked scores has not met the threshold of similarity before.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the network traffic analyzer is to: in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores has not met the threshold of similarity before, obtain additional traffic profiles from a media monitoring database; and in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores has met the threshold of similarity before, transmit the second network traffic data to the traffic profiler for further analysis.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the network traffic analyzer is to present the network traffic analysis report on at least one of a display, webpage, or application interface.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the network traffic analysis report associates the second network traffic data with a media services providing the streaming media.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a machine to at least: generate a traffic profile to reduce a computational burden of identifying streaming media being presented on a media presentation device, the traffic profile including first network traffic data indicative of the streaming media; obtain the traffic profile and second network traffic data corresponding to the streaming media; and generate, in response to a score for the second network traffic data meeting a threshold of similarity, a network traffic analysis report identifying the streaming media being presented on the media presentation device.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions cause the machine to generate the traffic profile based on a relationship between the streaming media and the first network traffic data, the first network traffic data filtered from third network traffic data including excess network traffic data that does not pertain to the streaming media.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the score for the second network traffic data corresponds to similarity between the second network traffic data and the traffic profile, and the instructions cause the machine to: generate the score for the second network traffic data and additional scores for the second network traffic data, the additional scores corresponding to similarities between the second network traffic data and additional traffic profiles, respectively; rank the score and the additional scores; and in response to a highest one of the ranked scores meeting the threshold of similarity, generate the network traffic analysis report.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions cause the machine to, in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores does not meet the threshold of similarity, determine whether the highest one of the ranked scores has not met the threshold of similarity before.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions cause the machine to: in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores has not met the threshold of similarity before, obtain additional traffic profiles from a media monitoring database; and in response to determining that the highest one of the ranked scores has met the threshold of similarity before, transmit the second network traffic data to the traffic profiler for further analysis.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions cause the machine to present the network traffic analysis report on at least one of a display, webpage, or application interface.
21. 21-34. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
