<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08,G16H15/00,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
Samir, Anthony E.
Brattain, Laura
Telfer, Brian A.
Dhyani, Manish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68060408
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR OBJECTIVE, NONINVASIVE STAGING OF DIFFUSE LIVER DISEASE FROM ULTRASOUND SHEAR-WAVE ELASTOGRAPHY
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for objective, noninvasive staging of diffuse liver disease, and other diseases, from ultrasound shear wave elastography ("SWE"). A liver fibrosis staging SWE image analysis algorithm or toolkit may be used to detect the presence of liver disease and may integrate demographic, clinical, laboratory, conventional sonographic, SWE data, and the like into a combined disease diagnosis decision support model, such as for the diagnosis of high risk liver disease. Advanced image processing methods may be used to extract fibrosis pattern information from SWE and ultrasound (US) image data and this can be used to augment stiffness-based liver fibrosis staging methods.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for disease diagnostic decision support comprising: a) accessing with a computer system, elastography data acquired from a subject; b) selecting a region of interest (ROI) in the elastography data using the computer system, wherein the ROI is selected by implementing an automated algorithm with the computer system in order to minimize variability; c) extracting features from the selected ROI using a statistical classifier implemented with a hardware processor and a memory of the computer system; d) generating a report for a user with a diagnostic decision support of a disease based upon the statistical classifier extracted features.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting features includes selecting features based upon at least one of: identifying sources of artifacts in the acquired data, identifying blood vessels in the selected region of interest, estimating fat content of a liver of the subject, or measuring subcutaneous fat of the subject.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracted features include at least one of stiffness measures of an estimated Young's Modulus (eYM) mean, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis, or entropy.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a convolutional neural network is used at least for extracting image features, or for the statistical classifier.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein implementing the automated algorithm includes repeatedly computing an inter-pixel variability measured as a standard deviation within the ROI.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the ROI includes one of a rectangular ROI, an arbitrarily shaped ROI, or a plurality of pixels of interest (POIs) and at least some of the POIs are not spatially connected.
7. (canceled)
8. (canceled)
9. (canceled)
10. (canceled)
11. The method of claim 1, wherein accessing the elastography data includes accessing shear wave elastography (SWE) data, and further comprising accessing ultrasound data acquired from the subject, wherein the ultrasound data are combined with the SWE data, and wherein the diagnostic decision support includes staging liver fibrosis for the subject.
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. A system for disease diagnostic decision support comprising: a computer system configured to: i) access, with a computer system, elastography data acquired from a subject; ii) select a region of interest (ROI) in the elastography data using the computer system, wherein the ROI is selected by implementing an automated algorithm with the computer system in order to minimize variability; iii) extract features from the selected ROI using a statistical classifier implemented with a hardware processor and a memory of the computer system; iv) generate a report for a user with a diagnostic decision support of a disease based upon the statistical classifier extracted features.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer system is configured to extract features that include selecting features based upon at least one of: identifying sources of artifacts in the acquired data, identifying blood vessels in the selected region of interest, estimating fat content of a liver of the subject, or measuring subcutaneous fat of the subject.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer system is configured to extract features that include at least one of stiffness measures of an estimated Young's Modulus (eYM) mean, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis, or entropy.
17. (canceled)
18. The system of claim 14, the computer system is configured to repeatedly compute an inter-pixel variability measured as a standard deviation within the ROI.
19. (canceled)
20. (canceled)
21. (canceled)
22. (canceled)
23. (canceled)
24. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer system is configured to access shear wave elastography (SWE) data and access ultrasound data acquired from the subject, wherein the ultrasound data are combined with the SWE data, and wherein the diagnostic decision support includes staging liver fibrosis for the subject.
25. (canceled)
26. (canceled)
27. A method for constructing and implementing a trained machine learning algorithm in order to generate, from shear wave elastography data, a feature map that depicts spatial patterns of a liver disease staging, the steps of the method comprising: constructing a trained machine learning algorithm by: (i) accessing training data with a computer system, the training data comprising shear wave elastography (SWE) data and at least one of clinical data or laboratory data obtained from a plurality of subjects; (ii) training a machine learning algorithm based on the training data, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained on the training data in order to localize regions associated with different liver disease stages; generating a feature map that depicts spatial patterns of liver disease staging in a subject by inputting SWE data acquired from that subject to the trained machine learning algorithm.
28. The method as recited in claim 27, wherein the training data further comprise image features derived from the SWE data.
29. The method as recited in claim 28, wherein the image features include at least one of stiffness measures of an estimated Young's Modulus (eYM) mean, minimum, maximum, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis, or entropy.
30. The method as recited in claim 27, wherein a region-of-interest is selected in the SWE data and only the SWE data contained in the ROI are input to the trained machine learning algorithm in order to generate the feature map.
31. The method as recited in claim 30, wherein the ROI is one of a rectangular ROI or an arbitrarily shaped ROI.
32. (canceled)
33. The method as recited in claim 30, wherein the ROI comprises a plurality of pixels of interest (POIs) and at least some of the POIs are not spatially connected.
34. The method as recited in claim 30, wherein the ROI is selected by constructing a machine learning algorithm that is trained on training data comprising ultrasound image data in order to localize an ROI.
</claims>
</document>
