<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06F13/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FISHER-ROSEMOUNT SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIXON MARK J.
LAW, GARY, K.
CALDWELL, JOHN, M.
BELL, NOEL HOWARD
Amaro, JR., Anthony
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATIC LOAD BALANCING AND PERFORMANCE LEVELING OF VIRTUAL NODES RUNNING REAL-TIME CONTROL IN PROCESS CONTROL SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A Multi-Purpose Dynamic Simulation and run-time Control platform includes a virtual process environment coupled to a physical process environment, where components/nodes of the virtual and physical process environments cooperate to dynamically perform run-time process control of an industrial process plant and/or simulations thereof. Virtual components may include virtual run-time nodes and/or simulated nodes. The MPDSC includes an I/O Switch which delivers I/O data between virtual and/or physical nodes, e.g., by using publish/subscribe mechanisms, thereby virtualizing physical I/O process data delivery. Nodes serviced by the I/O Switch may include respective component behavior modules that are unaware as to whether or not they are being utilized on a virtual or physical node. Simulations may be performed in real-time and even in conjunction with run-time operations of the plant, and/or simulations may be manipulated as desired (speed, values, administration, etc.). The platform simultaneously supports simulation and run-time operations and interactions/intersections therebetween.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system of an industrial process plant, the system comprising: a plurality of virtual nodes disposed in a virtual environment of the industrial process plant, the plurality of virtual nodes operating, during run-time operations of the industrial process plant, to control an industrial process by publishing data to an I/O switch and subscribing to data published by the I/O switch, the I/O switch communicatively connecting the plurality of virtual nodes to a plurality of physical nodes disposed in a physical environment of the industrial process plant, the plurality of physical nodes operating, during the run-time operations of the industrial process plant, to control the industrial process by sending data to and receiving data from the plurality of virtual nodes, and the plurality of physical nodes including at least one field device, the plurality of virtual nodes virtualizing at least one of: (i) one or more physical components that are deployable within the physical environment of the industrial process plant to control the industrial process, or (ii) one or more sub-components of the one or more physical components.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein each virtual node of the plurality of virtual nodes includes a respective at least one component behavior module that operates on content of first data received from the I/O switch via a respective one or more subscriptions to generate second data, and publishes the second data to the I/O switch for delivery to another process control component to thereby control a respective at least a portion of the industrial process.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein: the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented on a virtualization platform comprising one or more interconnected computing devices having one or more processors and one or more tangible memory devices, the one or more processors executing computer-executable instructions stored on the one or more tangible memory devices to provide the plurality of virtual nodes; a plurality of subscriptions of the plurality of virtual nodes to the data published by the I/O switch corresponds to a first portion of a plurality of I/O assignments; and a plurality of publications, by the plurality of virtual nodes, of the data to the I/O switch corresponds to a second portion of the plurality of I/O assignments.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein a load of the virtualization platform is balanced across the plurality of virtual nodes based on the plurality of I/O assignments.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the load of the virtualization platform is balanced further based on a configured boundary condition.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the balancing of the load of the virtualization platform includes a re-assignment of at least a portion of the plurality of I/O assignments to different virtual nodes.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the balancing of the load of the virtualization platform includes one of: a removal of a specific virtual node from the plurality of nodes implemented on the virtualization platform, or a creation of an additional virtual node implemented on the virtualization platform.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein the load of the virtualization platform includes at least one of a software resource load or a hardware resource load.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein the load of the virtualization platform includes at least one of a memory resource load or a traffic load.
10. The system of claim 3, wherein performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes are balanced at the virtualization platform based on the plurality of I/O assignments.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes are balanced further based on a configured boundary condition.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the balancing of performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes a re-assignment of at least a portion of the plurality of I/O assignments to different virtual nodes.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the balancing of the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes one of: a removal of a particular virtual node from the plurality of nodes implemented on the virtualization platform, or a creation of an additional virtual node implemented on the virtualization platform.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the balancing of performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes a balancing of a utilization of the one or more processors of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the balancing of performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes a balancing of a utilization of the one or more interconnected computing devices of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the balancing of performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes a balancing of a utilization of at least one of a network or one or more links interconnecting the one or more interconnected computing devices of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
17. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of a balancing of a load of the virtualization platform across the plurality of virtual nodes or a balancing of performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes is automatically performed, without any in-line user input, based on the plurality of I/O assignments.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a virtualization management node that is communicatively connected, within the virtual environment, to the plurality of the virtual nodes, and that automatically performs the at least one of the balancing of the load of the virtualization platform or the balancing of the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes based on one or more detected and/or predicted conditions of the virtualization platform.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more detected and/or predicted conditions of the virtualization platform include at least one of a detected occurrence of a first fault or a predicted occurrence of a second fault.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein, upon at least one of an initialization or a commissioning of the virtualization platform, the virtualization management node creates the plurality of virtual nodes based on the plurality of I/O assignments, the plurality of I/O assignments determined based on one or more system configuration databases of the industrial process plant.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the virtualization management node further determines the plurality of I/O assignments based on the one or more system configuration databases upon the at least one of the initialization or the commissioning of the virtualization platform.
22. A method at an industrial process plant, the method comprising: during run-time operations of the industrial process plant: detecting and/or predicting one or more conditions occurring at a virtualization platform on which a plurality of virtual nodes of a process control system is implemented while the plurality of virtual nodes is operating to control an industrial process by publishing data to an I/O switch and subscribing to data published by the I/O switch, the plurality of virtual nodes disposed in a virtual environment of the industrial process plant, the I/O switch included in the process control system and communicatively connecting the plurality of virtual nodes to a plurality of physical nodes of the process control system, the plurality of physical nodes disposed in a physical environment of the industrial process plant and including at least one field device, and the plurality of physical nodes operating, during the run-time operations of the industrial process plant, to control the industrial process by sending data to and receiving data from the plurality of virtual nodes; and balancing at least one of a load or performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes based on the detected and/or predicted one or more conditions.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein each virtual node of the plurality of virtual nodes includes a respective at least one component behavior module that operates on a content of first data received from the I/O switch via a respective one or more subscriptions to generate second data, and publishes a content of the second data to the I/O switch for delivery to another process control component to thereby control a respective at least a portion of the industrial process.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein: the virtualization platform comprises one or more interconnected computing devices having one or more processors and one or more tangible memories, the one or more processors executing computer-executable instructions stored on the one or more tangible memories to provide the plurality of virtual nodes; a plurality of subscriptions of the plurality of virtual nodes to the data published by the I/O switch corresponds to a first portion of a plurality of I/O assignments; and a plurality of publications, by the plurality of virtual nodes, of the data to the I/O switch corresponds to a second portion of the plurality of I/O assignments.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes is based on the plurality of I/O assignments.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes is further based on a configured boundary condition.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising: receiving, via a user interface, a change to the configured boundary condition; and re-balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes based on the change to the configured boundary condition.
28. The method of claim 24, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes re-assigning at least a portion of the plurality of I/O assignments to different virtual nodes.
29. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes one of: removing a specific virtual node from the plurality of nodes implemented on the virtualization platform, or creating an additional virtual node implemented on the virtualization platform.
30. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes adjusting at least one of a software resource load or a hardware resource load of one or more components of the virtualization platform.
31. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes adjusting at least one of a memory resource load or a traffic load of one or more components of the virtualization platform.
32. The method of claim 22, wherein the balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes adjusting a utilization of one or more processors of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
33. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes adjusting a utilization of one or more interconnected computing devices of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
34. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes adjusting a utilization of at least one of a network or one or more links interconnecting one or more interconnected computing devices of the virtualization platform on which the plurality of virtual nodes is implemented.
35. The method of claim 22, wherein balancing the at least one of the load or the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes is automatically performed without any in-line user input.
36. The method of claim 22, wherein: the process control system further includes a virtualization management node that is communicatively connected, within the virtual environment, to the plurality of the virtual nodes; and at least one of: detecting the one or more conditions comprises detecting, by the virtualization management node, at least one of the one or more conditions; predicting the one or more conditions comprises predicting, by the virtualization management node, at least one of the one or more conditions; balancing the load corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes balancing, by the virtualization management node, at least a portion of the load corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes; or balancing the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes balancing, by the virtualization management node, at least a portion of the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes.
37. The method of claim 22, wherein at least one of: detecting the one or more conditions comprises detecting, by one or more virtual nodes of the plurality of virtual nodes, at least one of the one or more conditions; predicting the one or more conditions comprises predicting, by one or more virtual nodes of the plurality of virtual nodes, at least one of the one or more conditions; balancing the load corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes balancing, by the one or more virtual nodes of the plurality of virtual nodes, at least a portion of the load corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes; or balancing the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes includes balancing, by the one or more virtual nodes of the plurality of virtual nodes, at least a portion of the performance levels corresponding to the plurality of virtual nodes.
38. The method of claim 22, wherein detecting and/or predicting the one more conditions occurring at the virtualization platform includes detecting an occurrence of a fault.
39. The method of claim 22, wherein detecting and/or predicting the one more conditions occurring at the virtualization platform includes predicting an occurrence of a fault.
40. The method of claim 22, wherein detecting and/or predicting the one more conditions occurring at the virtualization platform includes detecting an occurrence of a change in performance of the virtualization platform.
41. The method of claim 22, wherein detecting and/or predicting the one more conditions occurring at the virtualization platform includes predicting an occurrence of a change in performance of the virtualization platform.
42. The method of claim 22, further comprising, upon at least one of an initialization or a commissioning of the virtualization platform: creating, by the process control system, the plurality of virtual nodes based on the plurality of I/O assignments; and distributing the plurality of I/O assignments among the plurality of virtual nodes, wherein the plurality of I/O assignments is determined based on one or more system configuration databases of the industrial process plant.
43. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
