<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WEWORK COMPANIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EMIG, JOSHUA JAMES
Palmer, Andy
Rajaraman, Shiva
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROVIDING PHYSICAL SPACES, RESOURCES, AND INFORMATION TO USERS AND MANAGERS WITHIN A WORKSPACE, SUCH AS VIA A MEMBER APP
</title>

<abstract>
The following description describes a member application, member experiences, and resources for a manager of a coworking location. The follow description provides details on the following: 1) techniques for identifying open rooms, and conference room reservation and optimization, 2) guest registration systems and processes, 3) occupancy and insights/analytics for a co-working space, 4) map editing based on members and community teams within a space, 5) intelligent and automatic booking of conference rooms and other resources, 6) event planning engines to permit automatic and efficient posting or publication of events within a co-working space, 7) announcement planning engines to automatically produce announcements and posters for events, 8) wayfinding and reservations for phone booths and other typically non-registrable resources, 9) wayfinding and member discovery.
</abstract>

<claims>
I/We claim:
1. A method comprising: reducing traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions by identifying a local activity relevant to a first group of collocated users, wherein reducing traffic congestion further comprises: determining a second group of collocated users, wherein the second group of collocated users includes the first group of collocated users, wherein the second group of collocated users is frequently collocated at predictable times, and wherein at least two users in the second group of collocated users are engaged in at least two different activities; obtaining information associated with the at least two different activities and a historical information associated with each user in the first group of collocated users; based on the information associated with the at least two different activities and the historical information, identifying the local activity relevant to the first group of collocated users; and suggesting the local activity to the first group of collocated users.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining information associated with the at least two different activities comprises: obtaining a description of an offer provided by a first user in the first group of collocated users, and the description of a request associated with a second user in the first group of collocated users; determining whether the offer matches the request; and upon determining that the offer matches the request, providing the offer to the second user.
3. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining an affinity for the local activity associated with each user in the first group of collocated users; and based on the determined affinity, identifying a second local activity occurring at a future date.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining an affinity for the local activity associated with each user in the first group of collocated users by determining a location of the local activity and a time of occurrence of the local activity, locating a device associated with each user in the first group of collocated users during the time of occurrence, determining a length of time the device associated with each user spent at the location of the local activity during the time of occurrence of the local activity, and adjusting the affinity based on the length of time; and based on the determined affinity, identifying a second local activity occurring at a future date.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining a style of a suggestion for the local activity presented to the first group of collocated users; and generating a second suggestion for a second local activity in the determined style.
6. A system comprising: one or more processors; memory coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the memory includes instructions executable by the one or more processors to: reduce traffic congestion and greenhouse gas emissions by identifying a local activity relevant to a first group of collocated users, wherein reducing traffic congestion further comprises: determine a second group of collocated users, wherein the second group of collocated users includes the first group of collocated users, wherein the second group of collocated users is frequently collocated at predictable times, and wherein at least two users in the second group of collocated users are engaged in at least two different activities; obtain information associated with the at least two different activities and a historical information associated with each user in the first group of collocated users; based on the information associated with the at least two different activities and the historical information, identify the local activity relevant to the first group of collocated users; and suggest the local activity to the first group of collocated users.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the instructions to obtain the information associated with the at least two different activities further comprise instructions to: obtain a description of an offer provided by a first user in the first group of collocated users, and the description of a request associated with a second user in the first group of collocated users; determine whether the offer matches the request; and upon determining that the offer matches the request, provide the offer to the second user.
8. The system of claim 6, the instructions further comprising the instructions to: determine an affinity for the local activity associated with each user in the first group of collocated users; and based on the determined affinity, identify a second local activity occurring at a future date.
9. The system of claim 6, the instructions further comprising the instructions to: determine an affinity for the local activity associated with each user in the first group of collocated users by determining a location of the local activity and a time of occurrence of the local activity, locating a device associated with each user in the first group of collocated users during the time of occurrence, determining a length of time the device associated with each user spent at the location of the local activity during the time of occurrence of the local activity, and adjusting the affinity based on the length of time; and based on the determined affinity, identify a second local activity occurring at a future date.
10. The system of claim 6, the instructions further comprising the instructions to: determine a style of a suggestion for the local activity presented to the first group of collocated users; and generate a second suggestion for a second local activity in the determined style.
11. At least one non-transitory, computer-readable medium carrying instructions, which when executed by at least one data processing platform, performs a method of reserving/allocating space for a meeting of two or more people, the instructions comprising: receiving an input describing a meeting including a number of attendants, a location of attendants, a meeting time, and a meeting topic; determining meeting room requirements including a size of a meeting room and equipment associated with the meeting room based on the number of attendants, the location of attendants and the meeting topic; obtaining available meeting rooms during the meeting time and attributes of the available meeting rooms, wherein the attributes include a size of a particular meeting room and equipment available at a particular meeting room; comparing the attributes of the available meeting rooms to the meeting room requirements; creating a prioritized list based on the comparison between the attributes of the available meeting rooms and the meeting room requirements; and providing the prioritized list to a user to permit the user to select a meeting room from the prioritized list.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, comprising: based on the location of attendants determining whether an attendant is remote; and upon determining that the attendant is remote, determining that the meeting room requirements include equipment configured to enable videoconferencing.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, comprising: obtaining prior meeting rooms reserved by the user and prior topics associated with prior meeting rooms; determining a matching topic among the prior topics having best semantic match to the meeting topic; obtaining equipment associated with a meeting having the matching topic; and determining the equipment associated with the meeting room to be same as the equipment associated with the meeting having the matching topic.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the input comprises a natural language input, the method comprising: interpreting the natural language input to obtain the input describing the meeting including the number of attendants, the location of attendants, the meeting time, and the meeting topic.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, comprising: creating an augmented reality display of an environment surrounding the meeting room including displaying directions to the meeting room, thereby enabling the user to navigate to the meeting room.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, comprising: creating an augmented reality display of an environment surrounding the meeting room including displaying information associated with the environment surrounding the meeting room.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, comprising: monitoring a non-reservable room occupancy using a sensor; and informing the user of availability of the non-reservable room based on the monitoring.
18. A system comprising: one or more processors; memory coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the memory includes instructions executable by the one or more processors to: receiving an input describing a meeting including a number of attendants, a location of attendants, a meeting time, and a meeting topic; determining meeting room requirements including a size of a meeting room and equipment associated with the meeting room based on the number of attendants, the location of attendants and the meeting topic; obtaining available meeting rooms during the meeting time and available meeting rooms' attributes including a size and equipment; comparing the available meeting rooms' attributes to the meeting room requirements; creating a prioritized list based on the comparison between the available meeting rooms' attributes and the meeting room requirements; and providing the prioritized list to a user.
19. The system of claim 18, the instructions further comprising the instructions to: based on the location of attendants determine whether an attendant is remote; and upon determining that the attendant is remote, determine that the meeting room requirements include equipment configured to enable videoconferencing.
20. The system of claim 18, the instructions further comprising the instructions to: obtain prior meeting rooms reserved by the user and prior topics associated with the prior meeting rooms; determine a matching topic among the prior topics having best semantic match to the meeting topic; obtain equipment associated with a meeting having the matching topic; and determine the equipment associated with the meeting room to be same as the equipment associated with the meeting having the matching topic.
</claims>
</document>
