<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/72,G01S13/86,G01S7/41,G06K9/00,G06T7/70,H04N5/232,H04N5/247,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEDRONE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEEBER, RENE
Hoidn, Florian
Beister, Frederic
Dyballa, Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190299
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, APPARATUSES, AND DEVICES FOR RADAR-BASED IDENTIFYING, TRACKING, AND MANAGING OF UNMANNED AERIAL VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and apparatus for identifying and tracking UAVs including a plurality of sensors operatively connected over a network to a configuration of software and/or hardware. Generally, the plurality of sensors monitors a particular environment and transmits the sensor data to the configuration of software and/or hardware. The data from each individual sensor can be directed towards a process configured to best determine if a UAV is present or approaching the monitored environment. Radar sensors included in the plurality of sensors may identify specific locations corresponding to objects in an airspace, and video sensors such as PTZ cameras may be directed to collect image data of the objects at the specific locations for identifying the objects as UAVs and tracking the UAVs. The system predicts next locations for the UAVs and directs the PTZ cameras to update their orientations for following the UAVs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a particular airspace, comprising: a radar sensor configured to monitor the particular airspace; a plurality of image capturing devices physically proximate to the radar sensor and configured to monitor the particular airspace; and a server comprising a processor, wherein the server is operatively connected to the radar sensor and the plurality of image capturing devices, and wherein the processor is operative to: receive signal readings from the radar sensor, wherein the signal readings comprise location data corresponding to one or more objects detected in the particular airspace via the radar sensor; compare the received signal readings to a plurality of historical readings, wherein the plurality of historical readings correspond to known object trajectories detected within the particular airspace, and wherein each of the plurality of historical readings comprises a predicted location of an object and an acceptable location uncertainty corresponding to a subsequent object location; and upon determining that a particular reading of the received signal readings comprises location data substantially similar to the predicted location of a matching historical reading and is within the acceptable location uncertainty corresponding to the matching historical reading, associate the particular reading with the matching historical reading.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein associating comprises adding the particular reading to the matching historical reading.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further operative to determine, for the matching historical reading, a particular image capturing device of the plurality of image capturing devices to be assigned to the matching historical reading, wherein determining comprises evaluating at least the location data corresponding to the matching historical reading to locations of each of the plurality of image capturing devices.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the processor is further operative to direct the particular image capturing device to monitor the particular airspace corresponding to the location data of the matching historical reading.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further operative to receive image data from the particular image capturing device, wherein the image data depicts the particular airspace corresponding to the location data for verifying the one or more objects as UAVs.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor directs the particular image capturing devices via a PID controller.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the PID controller is adjusted at about 30 cycles per second.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the processor is further operative to perform an object detection process in response to receiving the image data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of historical readings are associated with a track comprising a record of three-dimensional coordinates corresponding to the known object trajectories detected within the particular airspace, and the predicted location of the object.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein each of the plurality of historical readings comprises a timer for recording time spent verifying the one or more objects as UAVs.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein determining assignments comprises evaluating the timer at the matching historical reading.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor calculates a new predicted location for the matching historical reading in response to adding the particular reading to the matching historical reading.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the image capturing devices comprise pan-tilt-zoom ("PTZ") cameras.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the acceptable location uncertainty is about 70% certain.
15. A method for identifying unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a particular airspace via a processor at a server, wherein the server is operatively connected to a radar sensor configured to monitor the particular airspace, and operatively connected to a plurality of image capturing devices physically proximate to the radar sensor and configured to monitor the particular airspace, the method comprising the steps of: receiving signal readings from the radar sensor, wherein the signal readings comprise location data corresponding to one or more objects detected in the particular airspace via the radar sensor; comparing the received signal readings to a plurality of historical readings, wherein the plurality of historical readings correspond to known object trajectories detected within the particular airspace, and wherein each of the plurality of historical readings comprises a predicted location of an object and an acceptable location uncertainty corresponding to a subsequent object location; and upon determining that a particular reading of the received signal readings comprises location data substantially similar to the predicted location of a matching historical reading and is within the acceptable location uncertainty corresponding to the matching historical reading, associating the particular reading with the matching historical reading.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein associating comprises adding the particular reading to the matching historical reading.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising the step of determining, for the matching historical reading, a particular image capturing device of the plurality of image capturing devices to be assigned to the matching historical reading, wherein determining comprises evaluating at least the location data corresponding to the matching historical reading to locations of each of the plurality of image capturing devices.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of directing the particular image capturing device to monitor the particular airspace corresponding to the location data of the matching historical reading.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising the step of receiving image data from the particular image capturing device, wherein the image data depicts the particular airspace corresponding to the location data for verifying the one or more objects as UAVs.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the processor directs each of the particular image capturing device via a PID controller.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the PID controller is adjusted at about 30 cycles per second.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the processor is further operative to perform an object detection process in response to receiving the image data.
23. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of historical readings are associated with a track comprising a record of three-dimensional coordinates corresponding to the known object trajectories detected within the particular airspace, and the predicted location of the object.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein each of the plurality of historical readings comprises a timer for recording time spent verifying the one or more objects as UAVs.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein determining assignments comprises evaluating the timer at the matching historical reading.
26. The method of claim 15, wherein the processor calculates a new predicted location for the matching historical reading in response to adding the particular reading to the matching historical reading.
27. The method of claim 15, wherein each of the image capturing devices comprise pan-tilt-zoom ("PTZ") cameras.
28. The method of claim 15, wherein the acceptable location uncertainty is about 70% certain.
</claims>
</document>
