<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTUM CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BONETTI, GUERINO
RAVINDRANATHAN, RAMA S.
SHANBHAG, RAVI M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944606
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING FOR AUTOMATICALLY PROVIDING NOTIFICATIONS AND PROVIDING CONTENT DYNAMICALLY
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, systems, computing devices, computing entities, and/or the like for using machine learning to predict micropopulation risk scores and use the micropopulation risk scores to predict a composite risk score. The composite risk score and it associated attributes can be used to provide notifications/messages and provide dynamic content to a mobile app.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: predicting, using one or more first machine learning models, a first micropopulation risk score for a user, wherein the first micropopulation risk score corresponds to a first micropopulation; predicting, using one or more second machine learning models, a second micropopulation risk score for the user, wherein the second micropopulation risk score corresponds to a second micropopulation; predicting, using one or more composite second machine learning models and based at least in part on the first micropopulation risk score and the second micropopulation risk score, a composite risk score for the user; determining whether the composite risk score for the user satisfies a configurable risk score threshold; and responsive to determining that the composite risk score for the user satisfies the configurable risk score threshold, automatically providing a notification to the user based at least in part on the user's notifications preferences stored in a user profile.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising accessing the user profile for the notification preferences.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the notification comprises a URI from which a mobile app can be accessed to download.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein a user computing entity is executing the mobile app and the method further comprises: identifying a first associated attribute for the composite risk score; and providing first content to a mobile app corresponding to the first associated attribute.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 further comprising: receiving real-time data from the mobile app; and responsive to receiving the real-time data from the mobile app, providing second content to the mobile app based at least in part on the real-time data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first machine learning models, the one or more second machine learning models, and the one or more composite machine learning models are part of an ensemble machine learning platform.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first content is selected from a library of content.
8. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium having computer program instructions stored therein, the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: predict, using one or more first machine learning models, a first micropopulation risk score for a user, wherein the first micropopulation risk score corresponds to a first micropopulation; predict, using one or more second machine learning models, a second micropopulation risk score for the user, wherein the second micropopulation risk score corresponds to a second micropopulation; predict, using one or more composite second machine learning models and based at least in part on the first micropopulation risk score and the second micropopulation risk score, a composite risk score for the user; determine whether the composite risk score for the user satisfies a configurable risk score threshold; and responsive to determining that the composite risk score for the user satisfies the configurable risk score threshold, automatically provide a notification to the user based at least in part on the user's notifications preferences stored in a user profile.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, further cause the processor to access the user profile for the notification preferences.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the notification comprises a URI from which a mobile app can be accessed to download.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein a user computing entity is executing the mobile app, and wherein the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, further cause the processor to: identifying a first associated attribute for the composite risk score; and providing first content to a mobile app corresponding to the first associated attribute.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the computer program instructions when executed by a processor, further cause the processor to: receiving real-time data from the mobile app; and responsive to receiving the real-time data from the mobile app, providing second content to the mobile app based at least in part on the real-time data.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the one or more first machine learning models, the one or more second machine learning models, and the one or more composite machine learning models are part of an ensemble machine learning platform.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the first content is selected from a library of content.
15. A computing system comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium and one or more processors, the computing system configured to: predict, using one or more first machine learning models, a first micropopulation risk score for a user, wherein the first micropopulation risk score corresponds to a first micropopulation; predict, using one or more second machine learning models, a second micropopulation risk score for the user, wherein the second micropopulation risk score corresponds to a second micropopulation; predict, using one or more composite second machine learning models and based at least in part on the first micropopulation risk score and the second micropopulation risk score, a composite risk score for the user; determine whether the composite risk score for the user satisfies a configurable risk score threshold; and responsive to determining that the composite risk score for the user satisfies the configurable risk score threshold, automatically provide a notification to the user based at least in part on the user's notifications preferences stored in a user profile.
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the computing system is further configured to access the user profile for the notification preferences.
17. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the notification comprises a URI from which a mobile app can be accessed to download.
18. The computing system of claim 17, wherein the computing system is further configured to: identifying a first associated attribute for the composite risk score; and providing first content to a mobile app corresponding to the first associated attribute.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the computing system is further configured to: receiving real-time data from the mobile app; and responsive to receiving the real-time data from the mobile app, providing second content to the mobile app based at least in part on the real-time data.
20. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the one or more first machine learning models, the one or more second machine learning models, and the one or more composite machine learning models are part of an ensemble machine learning platform.
21. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the first content is selected from a library of content.
</claims>
</document>
