<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/11,G06F9/451,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAULRAJ, SAMSON
RAMASAMY, SUKI
Adams, Cynthia D.
Dhir, Garima
Veerupakshappa, Raghavendra
Bagavathiappan, Balasubramanian
Raman, Kavitha Ganapathi
Sarkar, Santanu
Desalvo, Scott B.
Wolfe, Joshua C.
Schmidt, JR., Kenneth William
Marin, Christophe M.
Hancock, Phillip Matt
Krak, Timothy
Loatman, Karrie A.
Ram, Nikhil
Tammelleo, Gina L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046779
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT CONTROLS FOR END-USER COMPUTING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the invention are directed to intelligently and dynamically controlling both changes made within EUC applications and the control rules associated with such changes. A similarity index is calculated/assigned for each data entry field (i.e., cell/intersection) and the controls implemented when a changes to data in the entry fields occurs is based on the similarity index. In other embodiments, a change to data entry fields dynamically prompts analysis of the change based on historical approval and/or denial patterns specific to the EUC application, the data entry field(s) and/or the user of the application. In response to the analysis the control rules may be dynamically updated, and applied to the current change. In other embodiments, inputs, such as reviewer's comments, are the basis for determining a need to update existing controls or add new controls associated with data entry field(s) and the conditions associated therewith are determined and applied.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for intelligently controlling End-User Computing (EUC), the system comprising: a computing platform including a memory and at least one processor in communication with the memory; an EUC application stored in the memory, executable by the at least one processor and including data entry fields configured for date entries; and an EUC change control module stored in the memory, executable by the at least processor and on top of the EUC application and comprising: a first change control sub-module configured to: for each data entry field within the EUC application: identify one or more downstream formulas that link to a corresponding entry field, assign a random weight for each operator in the one or more downstream formulas, Calculate a similarity index based on the identified downstream formulas and the assigned one or more random weights, and in response to a change to a value in one or more data entry fields in the EUC application, determine whether a control is necessary based on the similarity index of the one or more entry fields.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first change control sub-module is further configured to implement machine-learning to categorize the data entry fields based on a degree of similarity of the similarity indexes.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first change control sub-module is further configured categorize the entry fields such that each category defines a level of control required in response to a change to less than all values of the data entry field within the category.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the first change control sub-module is further configured to determine whether the control is necessary based on the similarity index of the one or more entry fields, wherein the control includes one or more of (i) a denial of the change, (ii) an alert to a review function, and (iii) a warning to an alert function.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the EUC change control module further comprises a second change control sub-module configured to: in response to a change to a value in one more data entry fields of the EUC application, analyze the change to determine whether one or more controls associated with the change are acceptable.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the second change control sub-module is further configured to analyze the change by comparing the change to historical approval and rejections patterns for at least one of (i) the EUC application, (ii) the one or more data entry fields in the EUC application, (iii) a user of the application, (iv) a combination of the EUC application and the user, and (v) a combination of the EUC application, the user and the one or more data entry fields.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the second change control sub-module is further configured to, in response to determining that at least one of the one or more controls associated with the change are unacceptable, dynamically determine and update the at least one of the one or more controls, such that the updated controls are applied to the change.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the second change control sub-module is further configured to determine and update the at least one of the one or more controls, such that the updated controls are applied to the change, wherein the at least one updated control is specific to at least one of (i) the EUC application, (ii) the user of the application or a group of users of the application, and (iii) the one or more data entry fields in the application.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the EUC change control module further comprises a third change control sub-module configured to: receive inputs defining one or more parameters associated with one or more of the data entry fields in the EUC application; determine at least one of a need to (i) update one or more existing controls or (ii) add new controls associated with one or more of the one or more data entry fields based on the received inputs; determine at least one of first conditions for updating the one or more existing controls or second conditions for the one or more new controls; and at least one of (i) update the one or more existing controls to reflect the determined first conditions, and (ii) implement the one or more new controls in accordance with the second conditions.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the third change control sub-module is further configured to receive the inputs, wherein the inputs are reviewer comments associated with a previous review of changes made to one or more data fields in the EUC application.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the third change control sub-module is further configured to implement at least one Neuro-linguistic programming model to determine an importance of the reviewer comments.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the third change control sub-module is further configured to implement at least one Neuro-linguistic programming model to learn first conditions for updating the one or more existing controls or second conditions for the one or more new controls.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the third change control sub-module is further configured to determine at least one of first conditions for updating the one or more existing controls or second conditions for the one or more new controls, wherein at least one of the first conditions and the second conditions include thresholds for triggering at least one of (i) a denial of the change, (ii) an alert to a review function, and (iii) a warning to an alert function.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the third change control sub-module is further configured to dynamically (i) update the one or more existing controls to reflect the determined first conditions, and (ii) implement the one or more new controls.
16. A computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising: a first set of codes for causing a computer to, for each data entry field within an EUC application (i) identify one or more downstream formulas that link to a corresponding entry field, (ii) assign a random weight for each operator in the one or more downstream formulas, and (iii) calculate a similarity index based on the identified downstream formulas and the assigned one or more random weights; and a second set of codes for causing a computer to, in response to a change to a value in one or more data entry fields in the EUC application, determine whether a control is necessary based on the similarity index of the one or more entry fields.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising: a third set of codes for causing a computer to implement machine-learning to categorize the data entry fields based on a degree of similarity of the similarity indexes, wherein each category defines a level of control required in response to a change to less than all values of the data entry field within the category.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising: a third set of codes for causing a computer to, in response to a change to a value in one more data entry fields of the EUC application, analyze the change to determine whether one or more controls associated with the change are acceptable, wherein analyzing comprises comparing the change to historical approval and rejections patterns for at least one of (i) the EUC application, (ii) the one or more data entry fields in the EUC application, (iii) a user of the application, (iv) a combination of the EUC application and the user, and (v) a combination of the EUC application, the user and the one or more data entry fields.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising: a third set of codes for causing a computer to receive reviewer comments defining one or more parameters associated with one or more of the data entry fields in the EUC application; a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to determine at least one of a need to (i) update one or more existing controls or (ii) add new controls associated with one or more of the one or more data entry fields based on the received inputs; a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to determine at least one of first conditions for updating the one or more existing controls or second conditions for the one or more new controls; and a sixth set of codes causing a computer to perform at least one of (i) updating the one or more existing controls to reflect the determined first conditions, and (ii) implement the one or more new controls in accordance with the second conditions.
20. A computer-implemented method for intelligently controlling End-User Computing (EUC), the method executed by one or more computing device processors and comprising: for each data entry field within an EUC application: identifying one or more downstream formulas that link to a corresponding entry field, assigning a random weight for each operator in the one or more downstream formulas, calculating a similarity index based on the identified downstream formulas and the assigned one or more random weights; and in response to a change to a value in one or more data entry fields in the EUC application, determining whether a control is necessary based on the similarity index of the one or more entry fields.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 20, further comprising implementing machine-learning to categorize the data entry fields based on a degree of similarity of the similarity indexes, wherein each category defines a level of control required in response to a change to less than all values of the data entry field within the category.
</claims>
</document>
