<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06F9/30,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAN, KOICHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044738
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARITHMETIC DEVICE AND ARITHMETIC METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
An arithmetic device includes storage, a controller, and operation circuitry. The storage stores therein P-dimensional input vectors, P×N-dimensional matrixes, N-dimensional intermediate value vectors, and N-dimensional output vectors, and is capable of executing, in parallel, two or more of reading processing of the input vector, reading processing of the matrix, reading processing of the intermediate value vector, and writing processing of the output vector. The controller sets read timings of a first input vector, a first matrix, and a first intermediate value vector, and write timing of a first output vector, in operation processing including a D-dimensional processing loop. The operation circuitry calculates product of the first input vector and the first matrix, calculates sum of the product and the first intermediate value vector, and stores the sum as the first output vector in the storage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An arithmetic device comprising: storage storing therein one or more P-dimensional input vectors, one or more P×N-dimensional matrixes, one or more N-dimensional intermediate value vectors, and one or more N-dimensional output vectors, and capable of executing, in parallel, two or more of reading processing of the input vector, reading processing of the matrix, reading processing of the intermediate value vector, and writing processing of the output vector, P being an integer of 2 or more, N being an integer of 2 or more; a controller setting read timings and write timing in operation processing including a D-dimensional (D is an integer of 3 or more) processing loop, the read timings being timings of a first input vector to be read in the input vectors, a first matrix to be read in the matrixes, and a first intermediate value vector to be read in the intermediate value vectors, the write timing being timing of a first output vector to be written in the output vectors; and operation circuitry calculating product of the first input vector and the first matrix read from the storage in accordance with the read timings, calculating sum of the product and the first intermediate value vector read from the storage in accordance with the read timing, and storing the sum as the first output vector in the storage at the write timing.
2. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the controller sets a reference value of an address of the first input vector, a reference value of an address of the first matrix, and a reference value of an address of the first intermediate value vector, an increment value of the address of the first input vector, an increment value of the address of the first matrix, and an increment value of the address of the first intermediate value vector in a processing loop of each of dimensions included in the D dimensions, and the operation circuitry determines the addresses of the first input vector, the first matrix, and the first intermediate value vector on the basis of the corresponding reference values and increment values.
3. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the controller sets an offset for the reference value of the address of the first input vector, an offset for the reference value of the address of the first matrix, and an offset for the reference value of the address of the first intermediate value vector, and the operation circuitry determines the addresses of the first input vector, the first matrix, and the first intermediate value vector on the basis of the corresponding offsets.
4. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the controller sets a range of the first input vector, a range of the first matrix, and a range of the first intermediate value vector to be processed in a processing loop of each of dimensions included in the D dimensions, and an offset for the range of the first input vector, an offset for the range of the first matrix, and an offset for the range of the first intermediate value vector, and the operation circuitry determines the ranges of the first input vector, the first matrix, and the first intermediate value vector on the basis of the corresponding ranges and offsets.
5. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, further comprising: a register storing therein an initial value of the intermediate value vector, wherein the operation circuitry reads the first intermediate value vector from the register when a set initial condition is satisfied.
6. The arithmetic device according to claim 5, wherein the initial condition includes a condition to limit a range of data to which processing executed when the initial condition is satisfied is applied.
7. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the operation circuitry executes a nonlinear operation for the output vector when a set last condition is satisfied, and stores the first output vector for which the nonlinear operation has been executed in the storage at the write timing.
8. The arithmetic device according to claim 7, wherein the last condition includes a condition to limit a range of data to which processing executed when the last condition is satisfied is applied.
9. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the controller sets the read timings on the basis of parameters determining whether to update values of addresses designating the first input vector, the first matrix, and the first intermediate value vector in the processing loop.
10. The arithmetic device according to claim 1, wherein the storage includes a plurality of memories each capable of storing therein Q P-dimensional vectors and accessible simultaneously, Q being an integer of 1 or more, the input vectors, the intermediate value vectors, and the output vectors are stored in any of the memories, and the matrix is divided into N memories in the memories, and stored therein.
11. An arithmetic method executed in an arithmetic device including storage, the storage storing therein one or more P-dimensional input vectors, one or more P×N-dimensional matrixes, one or more N-dimensional intermediate value vectors, and one or more N-dimensional output vectors, and capable of executing, in parallel, two or more of reading processing of the input vector, reading processing of the matrix, reading processing of the intermediate value vector, and writing processing of the output vector, P being an integer of 2 or more, N being an integer of 2 or more, the arithmetic method comprising: controlling by setting read timings and write timing in operation processing including a D-dimensional (D is an integer of 3 or more) processing loop, the read timings being timings of a first input vector to be read in the input vectors, a first matrix to be read in the matrixes, and a first intermediate value vector to be read in the intermediate value vectors, the write timing being timing of a first output vector to be written in the output vectors; and calculating product of the first input vector and the first matrix read from the storage in accordance with the read timings, calculating sum of the product and the first intermediate value vector read from the storage in accordance with the read timing, and storing the sum as the first output vector in the storage at the write timing.
</claims>
</document>
