<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/78,G06F16/783,G06Q50/00,H04L12/725,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W4/21
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
SILBER, IAN MCINTYRE
SARKAR, SHILPA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65631789
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HIGHLIGHTING PORTIONS OF A LIVE VIDEO BROADCAST
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed toward systems and methods for enabling better control over a live video broadcast. For example, systems and methods described herein enable a broadcaster to indicate one or more highlighted portions of a live video broadcast. Systems and method described herein further provide a video broadcast viewer the ability to scrub through the video broadcast directly to the highlighted portions of the live video broadcast.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a system to: broadcast, via a networking system and to one or more co-users of a networking system user, a live video broadcast received from the networking system user; determine, during the live video broadcast, a highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving user input indicative of a highlighted portion; present to the network system user a set of sharing options comprising an option to share an unhighlighted full version of the live video broadcast and an option to share the highlighted portion indicated during the live video broadcast; receive, from the networking system user, a request based on a selected option from the set of sharing options to post the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to an account associated with the networking system user; and post, in response to the request, the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to the account associated with the networking system user.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to provide, for display within a graphical user interface, one or more user interface elements for posting, along with the highlighted portion, a comment related to the highlighted portion to the account associated with the networking system user.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to determine the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast by receiving the user input via a graphical user interface of a broadcasting computing device, the user input defining at least one of a start point or an end point of the highlighted portion.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to determine the highlighted portion which comprises a predetermined duration of the live video broadcast beginning from the start point.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 23, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to add, to the highlighted portion, a portion of content from the live video broadcast that corresponds to at least one of a first segment immediately prior to the start point or a second segment immediately after the end point.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to generate one or more networking system tags in relation to the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to modify the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving an indication of one or more user interactions to edit the highlighted portion.
28. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: broadcast, via a networking system and to one or more co-users of a networking system user, a live video broadcast received from the networking system user; determine, during the live video broadcast, a highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving user input indicative of a highlighted portion; present to the network system user a set of sharing options comprising an option to share an unhighlighted full version of the live video broadcast and an option to share the highlighted portion indicated during the live video broadcast; receive, from the networking system user, a request based on a selected option from the set of sharing options to post the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to an account associated with the networking system user; and post, in response to the request, the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to the account associated with the networking system user.
29. The system of claim 28, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to provide, for display within a graphical user interface, one or more user interface elements for posting, along with the highlighted portion, a comment related to the highlighted portion to the account associated with the networking system user.
30. The system of claim 28, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to determine the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast by receiving the user input via a graphical user interface of a broadcasting computing device, the user input defining at least one of a start point or an end point of the highlighted portion.
31. The system of claim 30, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to determine the highlighted portion which comprises a predetermined duration of the live video broadcast beginning from the start point.
32. The system of claim 30, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to add, to the highlighted portion, a portion of content from the live video broadcast that corresponds to at least one of a first segment immediately prior to the start point or a second segment immediately after the end point.
33. The system of claim 28, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to generate one or more networking system tags in relation to the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast.
34. The system of claim 28, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to modify the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving an indication of one or more user interactions to edit the highlighted portion.
35. A method comprising: broadcasting, via a networking system and to one or more co-users of a networking system user, a live video broadcast received from the networking system user; determining, during the live video broadcast, a highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving user input indicative of a highlighted portion; presenting to the network system user a set of sharing options comprising an option to share an unhighlighted full version of the live video broadcast and an option to share the highlighted portion indicated during the live video broadcast; receiving, from the networking system user, a request based on a selected option from the set of sharing options to post the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to an account associated with the networking system user; and posting, in response to the request, the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast to the account associated with the networking system user.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising providing, for display within a graphical user interface, one or more user interface elements for posting, along with the highlighted portion, a comment related to the highlighted portion to the account associated with the networking system user.
37. The method of claim 35, wherein determining the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast comprises receiving the user input via a graphical user interface of a broadcasting computing device, the user input defining at least one of a start point or an end point of the highlighted portion.
38. The method of claim 37, wherein the highlighted portion comprises a predetermined duration of the live video broadcast beginning from the start point.
39. The method of claim 37, further comprising adding, to the highlighted portion, a portion of content from the live video broadcast that corresponds to at least one of a first segment immediately prior to the start point or a second segment immediately after the end point.
40. The method of claim 35, further comprising modifying the highlighted portion of the live video broadcast in response to receiving an indication of one or more user interactions to edit the highlighted portion.
</claims>
</document>
