<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F9/451,G16H30/20,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
REICHER, MURRAY, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65231040
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTABLE USER INPUT INTERFACE
</title>

<abstract>
A user input interface on a mobile device may employ a set of routines to control computing functions on a computer. Computing functions may be associated with elements of the user input interface, such that the elements may be used to control the associated computing functions. The associations of computing functions and user input interface elements may be stored in a database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for interacting with a computer via a user input interface on a mobile device, the method comprising: executing, on the computer, a set of routines to control a plurality of computing functions via the user input interface; evaluating a plurality of interactive elements of a target application on the computer to determine a subset of the plurality of computing functions; associating a selected computing function, from the subset of the plurality of computing functions, of the computer with at least one element of the user input interface, such that the at least one element controls the selected computing function; storing the association of the selected computing function with the at least one element of the user input interface; activating, in response to an input from a first user, a configuration mode; scanning one or more menus of the target application to identify a second subset of the plurality of computing functions; generating a graphical representation of the second subset of the plurality of computing functions; and receiving, from the first user during the configuration mode, a set of configuration adjustments for the user input interface, wherein the set of configuration adjustments includes at least a user selection of one or more of the computing functions of the second subset to generate an association with a second element of the user input interface.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying the at least one element associated with the computing function at a location on the user input interface to account for the dominant hand for the specific user and the set of ergonomic data for the specific user by minimizing the hand and finger motions of the specific user; receiving input interacting with the location on the user input interface; and executing the selected computing function associated with the at least one element of the user input interface.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the storing the association comprises storing an indication to display the at least one element at the location on the user input interface and wherein the displaying the element at the location occurs in response to the stored indication.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein storing the association further comprises relating the association to a condition in a dynamic database of conditions, wherein each condition is related to one or more associations, and wherein each condition comprises a specific user, a user role, a user attribute, a computer program, a set of computing functions, a dominant hand for the specific user, and a set of ergonomic data for the specific user; and wherein the set of configuration adjustments further includes user-specified attributes for the size, shape, color, label, and font type and size of the label text of each of the at least one element of the user input interface.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving information about the first user; analyzing the information to generate a computing function profile tailored to the first user, the computing function profile including a set of conditions; determining, based on the dynamic database of conditions, the associations related to the set of conditions; associating, based on the one or more associations related to the set of conditions, a set of computing functions with a set of user input interface elements; and displaying the set of user input interface elements on the user input interface.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: monitoring user input; determining, based upon the monitored input, that the frequency of the user's execution of a second computing function meets a threshold; associating the second computing function with a second element; and displaying the second element on the user input interface.
7. The method of claim 2, further comprising: monitoring user input; determining, based upon the monitored input, that the frequency of the user's execution of a computing function does not meet a threshold; terminating the association of the computing function to the element; and removing the element from the display of the user input interface.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising: monitoring the dynamic database of conditions; altering, based on changes in the dynamic database of conditions, the set of user input interface elements displayed on the user input interface.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input interface is a touchscreen.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the element is an icon displayed on a touchscreen.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one interactive element is associated with a graph fractionation and quantification function.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing functions include medical image viewing routines.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the condition comprises an exam type, an imaging modality, a body part, and a pathology.
14. A system for interacting with a computer via a user input interface on a mobile device, the system comprising: a memory with program instructions stored thereon; and a processor in communication with the memory, wherein the system is configured to perform a method, the method comprising: executing, on the computer, a set of routines to control a plurality of computing functions via the user input interface; evaluating a plurality of interactive elements of a target application on the computer to determine a subset of the plurality of computing functions; associating a selected computing function, from the subset of the plurality of computing functions, of the computer with at least one element of the user input interface, such that the at least one element controls the selected computing function; storing the association of the selected computing function with the at least one element of the user input interface; activating, in response to an input from a first user, a configuration mode; scanning one or more menus of the target application to identify a second subset of the plurality of computing functions; generating a graphical representation of the second subset of the plurality of computing functions; and receiving, from the first user during the configuration mode, a set of configuration adjustments for the user input interface, wherein the set of configuration adjustments includes at least a user selection of one or more of the computing functions of the second subset to generate an association with a second element of the user input interface.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: displaying the at least one element associated with the computing function at a location on the user input interface to account for the dominant hand for the specific user and the set of ergonomic data for the specific user by minimizing the hand and finger motions of the specific user; receiving input interacting with the location on the user input interface; and executing the selected computing function associated with the at least one element of the user input interface.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the storing the association comprises storing an indication to display the element at the location on the user input interface and wherein the displaying the element at the location occurs in response to the stored indication.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein storing the association further comprises relating the association to a condition in a dynamic database of conditions, wherein each condition is related to one or more associations, and wherein each condition comprises a specific user, a user role, a user attribute, a computer program, a set of computing functions, a dominant hand for the specific user, and a set of ergonomic data for the specific user; and wherein the set of configuration adjustments further includes user-specified attributes for the size, shape, color, label, and font type and size of the label text of each of the at least one element of the user input interface.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: receiving information about the first user; analyzing the information to generate a computing function profile tailored to the first user, the computing function profile including a set of conditions; determining, based on the dynamic database of conditions, the associations related to the set of conditions; associating, based on the one or more associations related to the set of conditions, a set of computing functions with a set of user input interface elements; and displaying the set of user input interface elements on the user input interface.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises: monitoring the dynamic database of conditions; altering, based on changes in the dynamic database of conditions, the set of user input interface elements displayed on the user input interface.
20. A computer program product for interacting with a computer via a user input interface on a mobile device, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to: execute, on the computer, a set of routines to control a plurality of computing functions via the user input interface; evaluate a plurality of interactive elements of a target application on the computer to determine a subset of the plurality of computing functions; associate a selected computing function, from the subset of the plurality of computing functions, of the computer with at least one element of the user input interface, such that the at least one element controls the selected computing function; store the association of the selected computing function with the at least one element of the user input interface; activate, in response to an input from a first user, a configuration mode; scan one or more menus of the target application to identify a second subset of the plurality of computing functions; generate a graphical representation of the second subset of the plurality of computing functions; and receive, from the first user during the configuration mode, a set of configuration adjustments for the user input interface, wherein the set of configuration adjustments includes at least a user selection of one or more of the computing functions of the second subset to generate an association with a second element of the user input interface.
</claims>
</document>
