<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04N21/234,H04N21/25,H04N21/2547,H04N21/258,H04N21/262,H04N21/2668
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, SHUO
HUANG, ERIC HSIN-CHUN
BAPNA, Abhishek
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66697519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSERTING SECONDARY CONTENT INTO PRIMARY CONTENT PRESENTED BY AN ONLINE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An online system receives a request for a video to be presented by the online system to a target user. The online system determines whether to insert secondary content into the video. For such a determination, the online system identifies a position in the video for inserting secondary content. Further, the online system determines a loss score and a gain score. The loss score measures a loss of interaction by the target user if the secondary content were inserted. The gain score includes a monetary compensation to be received by the online system for inserting the secondary content at the identified position. The online system compares the loss score and the gain score. Based on the gain score offsetting the loss score, the online systems modifies the video by inserting the secondary content at the identified position and provides the modified video for display to the target user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory storing instructions, which when executed, cause the processor to: receive a request for content to be presented by a content management system to a user; and determine a position within the content for inserting secondary content, wherein the position is determined by: calculating a loss score based on at least one characteristic of the user; calculating a gain score based on at least a value to the content management system for inserting the secondary content within the content at the position; calculating an offset between the loss score and the gain score; and determining the position to insert the secondary content within the content based on the calculated offset, the position being where the gain score is determined to offset the loss score.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the content comprises interactive video media content and the content management system is an online content management system.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the loss score represents a prediction of a decrease in engagement by the user with the online system in the event the secondary content is inserted at the position, the prediction based on at least one computer machine learning model that receives the characteristics of the user and calculates the loss score based on a probability of a loss of user interaction.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein calculating the loss score comprises: identifying a type of user interaction from a plurality of types of user interactions; determining an interaction loss score for each identified type of user interaction from the plurality of types of user interactions, wherein the interaction loss score represents a loss of the identified type of interaction by the user if the secondary content were inserted at the identified position; aggregating interaction loss scores for each type of user interaction for the plurality of types of user interactions; and inputting the aggregated interaction loss scores into the at least one computer machine learning model to facilitate calculation of the probability of the loss of user interaction.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the types of user interactions comprise viewing, clicking, playing, liking, commenting, and sharing.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the gain score comprises: a monetary component representing compensation to be received by the content management system for inserting the secondary content at the identified position; and an organic component indicating a gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the identified position.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the organic component of the gain score is determined by: inputting a set of characteristics of the user and a set of characteristics of the secondary content into a computer machine learning model to determine a probability of gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the position; and determining the organic component of the gain score based on the probability.
28. The system of claim 21, wherein determining the position within the content for inserting secondary content further comprises: identifying a plurality of potential positions in the content for inserting secondary content; calculating the gain score and the loss score for each of the identified potential positions; ranking the potential positions based on the calculated gain scores and loss scores; and determine the position based on the rankings of the potential positions.
29. A method, comprising: receiving a request for content to be presented by a content management system to a user; and determining a position within the content for inserting secondary content, wherein the position is determined by: calculating a loss score based on at least one characteristic of the user; calculating a gain score based on at least a value to the content management system for inserting the secondary content within the content at the position; calculating an offset between the loss score and the gain score; and determining the position to insert the secondary content within the content based on the calculated offset, the position being where the gain score is determined to offset the loss score.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the loss score represents a prediction of a decrease in engagement by the user with the online system in the event the secondary content is inserted at the position, the prediction based on at least one computer machine learning model that receives the characteristics of the user and calculates the loss score based on a probability of a loss of user interaction.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein calculating the loss score comprises: identifying a type of user interaction from a plurality of types of user interactions; determining an interaction loss score for each identified type of user interaction from the plurality of types of user interactions, wherein the interaction loss score represents a loss of the identified type of interaction by the user if the secondary content were inserted at the identified position; aggregating interaction loss scores for each type of user interaction for the plurality of types of user interactions; and inputting the aggregated interaction loss scores into the at least one computer machine learning model to facilitate calculation of the probability of the loss of user interaction.
32. The method of claim 31, wherein the types of user interactions comprise viewing, clicking, playing, liking, commenting, and sharing.
33. The method of claim 29, wherein the gain score comprises: a monetary component representing compensation to be received by the content management system for inserting the secondary content at the identified position; and an organic component indicating a gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the identified position.
34. The method of claim 33, wherein the organic component of the gain score is determined by: inputting a set of characteristics of the user and a set of characteristics of the secondary content into a computer machine learning model to determine a probability of gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the position; and determining the organic component of the gain score based on the probability.
35. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing an executable, which when executed by a processor, performs the following: receiving a request for content to be presented by a content management system to a user; and determining a position within the content for inserting secondary content, wherein the position is determined by: calculating a loss score based on at least one characteristic of the user; calculating a gain score based on at least a value to the content management system for inserting the secondary content within the content at the position; calculating an offset between the loss score and the gain score; and determining the position to insert the secondary content within the content based on the calculated offset, the position being where the gain score is determined to offset the loss score.
36. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 35, wherein the loss score represents a prediction of a decrease in engagement by the user with the online system in the event the secondary content is inserted at the position, the prediction based on at least one computer machine learning model that receives the characteristics of the user and calculates the loss score based on a probability of a loss of user interaction.
37. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 36, wherein calculating the loss score comprises: identifying a type of user interaction from a plurality of types of user interactions; determining an interaction loss score for each identified type of user interaction from the plurality of types of user interactions, wherein the interaction loss score represents a loss of the identified type of interaction by the user if the secondary content were inserted at the identified position; aggregating interaction loss scores for each type of user interaction for the plurality of types of user interactions; and inputting the aggregated interaction loss scores into the at least one computer machine learning model to facilitate calculation of the probability of the loss of user interaction.
38. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 37, wherein the types of user interactions comprise viewing, clicking, playing, liking, commenting, and sharing.
39. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 35, wherein the gain score comprises: a monetary component representing compensation to be received by the content management system for inserting the secondary content at the identified position; and an organic component indicating a gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the identified position.
40. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 39, wherein the organic component of the gain score is determined by: inputting a set of characteristics of the user and a set of characteristics of the secondary content into a computer machine learning model to determine a probability of gain of interaction by the user in the event the secondary content were inserted at the position; and determining the organic component of the gain score based on the probability.
</claims>
</document>
