<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/12,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRADY, NIGEL
IWAUCHI, NOBUYUKI
ZHAO, YUNZHE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071170
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONNECTING AN IMAGE PROCESSING DEVICE VIA A MOBILE DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A communication apparatus automatically establishes a wireless communication connection with an image processing apparatus. The communication apparatus captures one of more images of the image processing apparatus and determines, via image recognition process the identification information associated with the image processing apparatus. The communication apparatus automatically searches configuration information matching the identification information of the image processing apparatus and initiates the communication connection request. Communication apparatus provides the status information on a display screen of the communication apparatus and establishes a connection between the image processing apparatus and the communication apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for establishing a wireless connection between a communication apparatus and an image processing apparatus, the method comprising: capturing one or more images of the image processing apparatus; determining, via image recognition processing performed on the one or more images of the image processing apparatus, identification information associated with the image processing apparatus; automatically searching for configuration information that includes one or more network identifiers associated with the determined identification information; initiating, when the configuration information is obtained, a connection request between the communication apparatus and the image processing apparatus using the one or more associated network identifiers; and establishing a connection between the image processing apparatus and the communication apparatus.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining the identification information includes identifying a device name, a device model number, and a device environment of the image processing apparatus.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining the identification information further includes comparing the one or more images of the image processing apparatus to a set of stored identification information representing a plurality of different image processing apparatuses and selecting one of the plurality of image processing apparatuses that matches the image processing apparatus captured in the one or more images as the image processing apparatus that is associated with the identification information.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the configuration information includes identifying a network information and a device information associated with the identification information of the image processing apparatus.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the network information includes a network address, an IP domain, a login, or password associated with the identification information of the image processing apparatus.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the device information includes device login information, device policy information, or device setting information associated with the identification information of the image processing apparatus.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein searching for configuration information further includes: comparing the identification information associated with the image processing apparatus to a set of stored identification information representing a plurality of different image processing apparatuses that includes respective configuration information associated with the plurality of different image processing apparatuses, and selecting one of the plurality of different image processing apparatuses and the respective configuration information that matches with the identification information of the images of the image processing apparatus.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein searching for configuration information is performed in a case where the identification information, which includes a device name, a device model number, and a device environment, associated with the image processing apparatus matches with pre-stored identification information that includes the device name, the device model number, and the device environment of the image processing apparatus, and the configuration information is obtained via manual entry and stored, in a case where the identification information, which includes the device name, the device model number, and the device environment associated with the image processing apparatus, does not match with the information of the pre-stored identification information.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the capturing of the one or more images includes single image frames or a stream of one or more image frames as a video file.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the automatically searching for the configuration information that includes the one or more network identifiers includes searching a communication network for one or more network identifiers matching the determined identification information, and initiating the connection request between the communication apparatus and the image processing apparatus when the communication network matching the network identifier is obtained.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein initiating the connection request causes the image processing apparatus to output an indicator having one or more patterns, and wherein one or more images of the indicator is captured by the communication apparatus to obtain an indicator pattern.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the obtained indicator pattern is further decoded to provide a status information associated with the image processing apparatus, and wherein, the status information includes information for establishing the connection information between the image processing apparatus and the communication apparatus and is displayed on a display screen of the communication apparatus.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein print data are transmitted between the communication apparatus and the image processing apparatus based on the obtained status information associated with the image processing apparatus.
14. The method according to claim 10, wherein initiating the connection request causes the image processing apparatus to generate a security code and output an indicator pattern having the security code, and wherein one of more images of the indicator pattern have the security code are captured and decoded by the communication apparatus to obtain the security code before establishing the connection.
15. A method according to claim 1, wherein determining via image recognition processing performed on the one or more images of the image processing apparatus further includes: determining identification information and capability information associated with the image processing apparatus matching the requirement of print data, and automatically searching for configuration information that includes one or more network identifiers associated with the determined identification information and the capability information of the image processing apparatus.
16. A communication apparatus comprising: one or more memories storing one or more programs; and one or more processors that, by executing the one or more programs, cause the communication apparatus to: capture one or more images of an image processing apparatus; determine, via image recognition processing performed on the one or more images of the image processing apparatus, identification information associated with the image processing apparatus; automatically search for configuration information including one or more network identifiers associated with the determined identification information; initiate, when the configuration information is obtained, a connection request between the communication apparatus and the image processing apparatus having the one or more network identifiers; and establish a connection between the image processing apparatus and the communication apparatus.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform a method comprising: capturing one or more images of an image processing apparatus; determining, via image recognition processing performed on the one or more images of the image processing apparatus, identification information associated with the image processing apparatus; automatically searching for configuration information including one or more network identifiers associated with the determined identification information; initiating, when the configuration information is obtained, a connection request between the communication apparatus and the image processing apparatus using the one or more network identifiers; and establishing a connection between the image processing apparatus and the communication apparatus.
</claims>
</document>
