<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MERCARI
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEUNG, KAI CHUN
HARA, JEFFREY KENICHIRO
LAGERLING, JOHN ALEXANDER
MEHROTRA, DHRUV
OH, BYONG MOK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining Sellability Score and Cancellability Score
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are system, method, and computer program product embodiments for generating sellability and cancellability scores for selling objects on an electronic marketplace. An embodiment operates by receiving, from a mobile device, an image including an object for sale and determining information associated with the object for sale. Information associated with pre-identified objects is determined from information associated with pre-identified objects, where each of the pre-identified objects corresponds to the object for sale. A sellability score and/or a cancellability score is generated based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale and the information associated with the pre-identified objects. The sellability score and the cancellability score are further provided to users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, an image including an object for sale; determining information associated with the object for sale; determining, from an electronic marketplace, information associated with pre-identified objects, wherein each of the pre-identified objects correspond to the object for sale; generating at least one of a sellability score or a cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale and the information associated with the pre-identified objects; and providing the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining information associated with a seller of the object for sale; and generating the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale, the information associated with the pre-identified objects, and the information associated with the seller of the object for sale.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the information associated with the seller of the object for sale comprises historical information of transactions performed by the seller on the electronic marketplace.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score comprises generating the sellability score using a sellability model, and the method further comprising: receiving updated information associated with the object for sale or updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; generating an updated sellability model based at least in part on the updated information associated with the object for sale or the updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; and generating an updated sellability score using the updated sellability model.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sellability model comprises a decision tree based model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score comprises generating the cancellability score using a cancellability model, and the method further comprising: receiving updated information associated with the object for sale or updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; generating an updated cancellability model based at least in part on the updated information associated with the object for sale or the updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; and generating an updated cancellability score using the updated cancellability model.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score comprises generating the cancellability score, and the method further comprising: determining that the object for sale is sold on the electronic market; determining information associated with a buyer of the object for sale; and generating the cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the buyer of the object for sale.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sellability score is a probability value that the object for sale will be sold within a given period of time.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the cancellability score is a probability value that a listing of the object for sale on the electronic market will be cancelled by a seller of the object for sale or a buyer of the object for sale.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the providing the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score comprises: providing the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score to the mobile device to be used to update the information associated with the object for sale.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ranking a plurality of objects for sale based at least in part on sellability scores of the plurality of objects for sale; and ordering a display of the plurality of objects for sale in the electronic marketplace based on the ranking.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ranking a plurality of objects for sale based at least in part on sellability scores and cancellability scores of the plurality of objects for sale; and ordering a display of the plurality of objects for sale in the electronic marketplace based on the ranking.
13. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive, from a mobile device, an image including an object for sale; determine information associated with the object for sale; determine, from an electronic marketplace, information associated with pre-identified objects, wherein each of the pre-identified objects correspond to the object for sale; generate at least one of a sellability score or a cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale and the information associated with the pre-identified objects; and provide the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine information associated with a seller of the object for sale; and generate the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale, the information associated with the pre-identified objects, and the information associated with the seller of the object for sale.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the information associated with the seller of the object for sale comprises historical information of transactions performed by the seller on the electronic marketplace.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the sellability score is generated using a sellability model, and the at least one processor is further configured to: receive updated information associated with the object for sale or updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; generate an updated sellability model based at least in part on the updated information associated with the object for sale or the updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; and generate an updated sellability score using the updated sellability model.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the cancellability score is generated using a cancellability model, and the at least one processor is further configured to: receive updated information associated with the object for sale or updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; generate an updated cancellability model based at least in part on the updated information associated with the object for sale or the updated information associated with the pre-identified objects; and generate an updated cancellability score using the updated cancellability model.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein to provide the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score, the at least one processor is configured to: provide the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score to the mobile device to be used to update the information associated with the object for sale.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: rank a plurality of objects for sale based at least in part on sellability scores of the plurality of objects for sale; and order a display of the plurality of objects for sale in the electronic marketplace based on the ranking.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, an image including an object for sale; determining information associated with the object for sale; determining, from an electronic marketplace, information associated with pre-identified objects, wherein each of the pre-identified objects correspond to the object for sale; generating at least one of a sellability score or a cancellability score based at least in part on the information associated with the object for sale and the information associated with the pre-identified objects; and providing the at least one of the sellability score or the cancellability score.
</claims>
</document>
