<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/51,G06F21/64,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/00,G06Q40/02,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/20,G06Q50/26,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Guillen, Juan Carlos
</assignee>

<inventors>
Guillen, Juan Carlos
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74042892
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATION AND ROBOTIC INSURANCE POLICY
</title>

<abstract>
The computer implemented system and method for providing insurance policy to an individuals whose job is or may be lost due to displacement by an artificial intelligence, automation and/or robotics is disclosed. The system and method offers insurance policies to individuals or an organizations and allows to access and register within the system using a user interface device. The computer implemented system then verifies, reviews and identifies the risk factors related to the individual and accordingly defines and offers the insurance plans to the applicant for providing coverage in case of job displacement due to artificial intelligence, algorithms, augmented reality, automation, software, machine learning, technology and virtual reality or any other advancement in technology. Further, the computer implemented system comprises and provides services such as educational service for improvement of skill of individual, service for development of recruitment strategies within the individual, services of connecting the individual with staffing agencies for new job.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A computer implemented system for providing variable insurance policy to an individuals who may be or has been displaced by an advancement in technology, the system comprising: (i) a processor having a logic machine for electronically defining, offering, verifying and providing insurance policy and coverage to the individuals; (ii) an storage machine communicatively coupled to the processor and comprising an algorithms or computer readable programs executable by the processor; (iii) an input subsystem or a user interface device to allow the individuals to electronically access the computer implemented system, to register and purchase the insurance policy, to claim the insurance coverage and to receive the benefits and insurance coverage; (iv) a display subsystem to display a graphical user interface or any visual element of the insurance policy; (v) a communication subsystem to allows the computer implemented system to communicate with a plurality of the user interface devices of the individuals; and (vi) a GPS subsystem to allow the computer implemented system to determine the location of plurality of the user interface devices of the individuals.
2. The computer implemented system of claim 1, wherein the displacement by advancement in technology includes displacement by any of the artificial intelligence, algorithms, augmented reality, automation, software, machine learning, technology or virtual reality.
3. The computer implemented system of claim 1, wherein the processor with logic machine is configured to: a. electronically receive a request of registration and the individual's data from the user interface device of the individual for the job displacement insurance policy; b. apply and execute the algorithms and programs over the individual's data to identify the risk and other factors or to determine qualification of the individual for the insurance policy; c. electronically offer the job displacement insurance policy to the individual; d. electronically establishes an Automation Job Displacement Insurance Savings Account (AJDISA) of the individual to submit premiums; e. receive a request of benefit and an insurance coverage claim from the user interface device of the individual; f. verify the reason and authenticity of the insurance coverage claim; and g. disperse the insurance coverage into the Automation Job Displacement Insurance Savings Account (AJDISA) of the individual as per an agreement of the job displacement insurance policy.
4. The computer implemented system of claim 3, wherein the risk and other factors includes risk factors, rating factors, risk premium related assumption factor, expense related assumption, retention assumptions, competition analysis, profitability criterion, inflation rate, interest rate, risk discount rate and margins for adverse deviation.
5. The computer implemented system of claim 3, wherein the individual's data includes geo-location of the individual, demographics, government studies or federal data about the individual, personal or employer organization details, job history, actuarial and parameterized details and other required documentation.
6. The computer implemented system of claim 1, wherein the variable insurance policy for the job displaced individuals further comprises educational assistance including courses and tuitions for new skill development, recruitment strategies such as job seeking and job training assistance, and introduction with staffing agencies to help the individual in getting new job.
7. The computer implemented method for providing variable insurance policy to an individuals who may be or has been displaced by an advancement in technology, the method comprising steps of: a. allowing the individual to register though the user interface into the computer implemented system; b. electronically receiving and identifying the geo-locations, demographics, government studies or federal data about the individual, personal or employer organization details, job history, actuarial and parameterized details and other required documentation; c. evaluating risk and other factors by the logic machine of the processor of the computer implemented system using received and identified individual data; d. electronically offering insurance policy and underwriting insure based on risk assessment; e. electronically establishing an Automation Job Displacement Insurance Savings Account (AJDISA) of the individual to submit premiums f. electronically issuing the job displacement policy to the prospective individual; g. allowing the individual to electronically claim the insurance coverage using the user interface in case of job displacement by the advancement of technology; h. electronically reviewing and investigating the insurance claim by the processor of the system; i. manually and electronically verification of the reason of the job loss; j. acceptance or denial of insurance coverage by the computer implemented system based on authenticity of the insurance claim.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the displacement by advancement in technology includes displacement by any of the artificial intelligence, algorithms, augmented reality, automation, software, machine learning, technology or virtual reality.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the risk and other factors includes risk factors, rating factors, risk premium related assumption factor, expense related assumption, retention assumptions, competition analysis, profitability criterion, inflation rate, interest rate, risk discount rate and margins for adverse deviation.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the variable insurance policy for the job displaced individuals further comprises educational assistance including courses and tuition for new skill development, recruitment strategies such as job seeking and job training assistance, and introduction with staffing agencies to help the individual in getting new job.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the method of manually verification includes On-site visits, yearly audits, verification of Robot tax identification number which replaces a claimant; verification of robotic barcode identification number, confirmation letter by the human resources department of the claimant; confirmation letter by direct manager of an organization of the claimant; Confirmation letter by the state unemployment, and verification of witness statements.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 7, wherein the method of electronically verification includes verification of announced layoff or reorganization of an organization of the claimant, verification of company announcements and emails, verification by videos and recordings, verification through facetime verification of job displacement tracker databases, and verification of job identification number.
</claims>
</document>
