<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YADAV, ANIL
LOBO, MELVIN
SCHWADE, ALLAN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69720877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR A SCENE BUILDER
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for creating organized intent clusters or scenes using machine learning algorithms is provided. A method of creating organized intent clusters or scenes comprises extracting intent features related to the plurality of request inputs. The method also includes creating a plurality of groups comprising the extracted intent features. The method includes identifying a cluster based on co-occurring extracted intent features, the co-occurring extracted intent features belonging to a plurality of domains. The method further includes generating a proto-scene based in part by ranking the extracted intent features within the cluster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a plurality of request inputs; extracting intent features related to the plurality of request inputs; creating a plurality of groups comprising the extracted intent features; identifying a cluster based on co-occurring extracted intent features from the plurality of groups, the co-occurring extracted intent features belonging to a plurality of domains; and generating a proto-scene based in part by ranking the extracted intent features within the cluster.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein creating the plurality of groups comprises: creating request histories, including the extracted intent features, based on the plurality of request inputs; and slicing the request histories according to slice thresholds.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the slice thresholds are based on at least one of a number of actions, a time duration; a number of device state changes, location information, or intent.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracted intent features comprise at least one of a request, a goal, a time of the request, or a device state associated with the request.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the ranking of the extracted intent features is accomplished by at least one of a rank aggregation method.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the proto-scene reflects a plurality of goals associated with an activity.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: comparing the proto-scene to existing scenes in a scene database according to a goal overlap threshold for scene management, wherein scene management comprises adding the proto-scene to the scene database, modifying an existing scene from the scene database to incorporate at least one goal from the proto-scene, or discarding the proto-scene.
8. A computing system comprising: an input interface configured to receive a plurality of request inputs; at least one processor coupled to the input interface; and a memory coupled to the at least one processor, the memory including instructions executable by the at least one processor to: extract intent features related to the plurality of request inputs, create a plurality of groups comprising the extracted intent features, identify a cluster based on co-occurring extracted intent features from the plurality of groups, the co-occurring extracted intent features belonging to a plurality of domains; and generate a proto-scene by ranking the extracted intent features within the cluster.
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the memory includes instructions executable by the at least one processor to create the plurality of groups by: creating request histories, including the extracted intent features, based on the plurality of request inputs; and slicing the request histories according to slice thresholds.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the slice thresholds are based on at least one of a number of actions, a time duration; a number of device state changes, location information, or intent.
11. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the extracted intent features comprise at least one of a request, a goal, a time of the request, or a device state associated with the request.
12. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the memory includes instructions executable by the at least one processor to accomplish the ranking of the extracted intent features by executing at least one of a rank aggregation method.
13. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the proto-scene reflects a plurality of goals associated with an activity.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the memory includes instructions executable by the at least one processor to: compare the proto-scene to existing scenes in a scene database according to a goal overlap threshold for scene management, wherein scene management comprises adding the proto-scene to the scene database, modifying an existing scene from the scene database to incorporate at least one goal from the proto-scene, or discarding the proto-scene.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium configured to store a plurality of instructions that, when executed by at least one processor is configured to cause the at least one processor to: extract, from a plurality of request inputs received via an input interface, intent features related to the plurality of request inputs; create a plurality of groups comprising the extracted intent features; identify a cluster based on co-occurring extracted intent features from the plurality of groups, the co-occurring extracted intent features belonging to a plurality of domains; and generate a proto-scene by ranking the extracted intent features within the cluster, wherein the proto-scene reflects a plurality of goals associated with an activity.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to create the plurality of groups by: creating request histories, including the extracted intent features, based on the plurality of request inputs; slicing the request histories according to slice thresholds.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the slice thresholds are based on at least one of a number of actions, a time duration; a number of device state changes, location information, or intent.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the extracted intent features comprise at least one of a request, a goal, a time of the request, or a device state associated with the request.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to accomplish the ranking of the extracted intent features by executing at least one of a rank aggregation method.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of instructions is further configured to cause the processor to: compare the proto-scene to existing scenes in a scene database according to a goal overlap threshold for scene management, wherein scene management comprises adding the proto-scene to the scene database, modifying an existing scene from the scene database to incorporate at least one goal from the proto-scene, or discarding the proto-scene.
</claims>
</document>
