<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G10L15/08,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANG, JIYOUNG
KANG, SEUNGSOO
LEE, YUNSU
HWANG, TAEHO
LEE, JAEHUN
KWAK, SEJIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69232754
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING THE ELECTRONIC DEVICE THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device and a method for controlling the electronic device is provided. The electronic device includes a microphone, a memory configured to include at least one instruction, and a processor configured to execute the at least one instruction. The processor is configured to control the electronic device to perform voice recognition for an inquiry based on receiving input of a user inquiry through the microphone, and acquire a text for the inquiry, generate a plurality of inquiries for acquiring response data for the inquiry from a plurality of databases using a relation graph indicating a relation between the acquired text and data stored in the plurality of databases, acquire response data corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiries from each of the plurality of databases, and generate a response for the inquiry based on the response data acquired from each of the plurality of databases and output the response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a microphone; a memory configured to store at least one instruction; and a processor configured to execute the at least one instruction, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: perform voice recognition for an inquiry and acquire a text corresponding to the inquiry based on receiving inquiry input through the microphone, generate a plurality of inquiries to acquire response data for the inquiry from a plurality of databases using a relation graph indicating a relation between the acquired text and data stored in the plurality of databases, acquire response data corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiries from each of the plurality of databases, generate a response for the inquiry based on the response data acquired from each of the plurality of databases, and output the response.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: analyze data fields stored in the plurality of databases and acquire a relation graph indicating a relation among data stored in the plurality of databases.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: analyze at least one of names of data fields included in the plurality of databases, names of data included in the data fields, or distribution of data and determine similar data fields among the plurality of databases, determine upper concepts of the determined similar data fields, designate the upper concepts as upper nodes, designate the similar data fields as lower nodes of the upper nodes, and acquire the relation graph.
4. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: generate a sample inquiry and a sample response based on the upper node and store the inquiry and the response in the memory.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: determine whether the acquired text corresponds to the sample inquiry, and generate the plurality of inquiries using the acquired text and the relation graph based on determining that the acquired text corresponds to the sample inquiry.
6. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: generate the response based on the sample response based on acquiring response data from each of the plurality of databases, and output the response.
7. The electronic device of claim 3, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: determine the upper nodes corresponding to each of a plurality of inquiry elements included in the acquired text, and generate the plurality of inquiries based on a plurality of lower nodes included in the upper nodes.
8. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: acquire a plurality of first keywords corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiry elements based on a lower node corresponding to a first database included in the upper node, generate a first inquiry for the first database based on the plurality of first keywords, acquire a plurality of second keywords corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiry elements based on a lower node corresponding to a second database included in the upper node, and generate a second inquiry for the second database based on the plurality of second keywords.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic device to: determine whether the response is a response generated by integrating the plurality of response data.
10. A method for controlling an electronic device comprising: performing voice recognition for an inquiry based on receiving input inquiry through the microphone, and acquiring a text for the inquiry; generating a plurality of inquiries for acquiring response data for the inquiry from a plurality of databases using a relation graph indicating a relation between the acquired text and data stored in the plurality of databases; acquiring response data corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiries from each of the plurality of databases; generating a response for the inquiry based on the response data acquired from each of the plurality of databases; and outputting the response.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising: analyzing data fields stored in the plurality of databases and acquiring a relation graph indicating a relation among data stored in the plurality of databases.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the acquiring a relation graph comprises: analyzing at least one of names of data fields included in the plurality of databases, names of data included in the data fields, or distribution of data; determining similar data fields among the plurality of databases; determining upper concepts of the determined similar data fields; designating the upper concepts as upper nodes; designating the similar data fields as lower nodes of the upper nodes; and acquiring the relation graph.
13. The method of claim 12, comprising: generating a sample inquiry and a sample response based on the upper node and storing the inquiry and the response in the memory of the electronic device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the generating comprises: determining whether the acquired text corresponds to the sample inquiry; and generating the plurality of inquiries using the acquired text and the relation graph based on determining that the acquired text corresponds to the sample inquiry.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the outputting comprises: generating the response based on the sample response based on acquiring response data from each of the plurality of databases, and outputting the response.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the generating comprises: determining the upper nodes corresponding to each of a plurality of inquiry elements included in the acquired text; and generating the plurality of inquiries based on a plurality of lower nodes included in the upper nodes.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the generating comprises: acquiring a plurality of first keywords corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiry elements based on a lower node corresponding to a first database included in the upper node, and generating a first inquiry for the first database based on the plurality of first keywords; and acquiring a plurality of second keywords corresponding to each of the plurality of inquiry elements based on a lower node corresponding to a second database included in the upper node, and generating a second inquiry for the second database based on the plurality of second keywords.
18. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining whether the response is a response generated by integrating the plurality of response data.
</claims>
</document>
