<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/28,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUNNE, JONATHAN
GRANT, ROBERT H.
HEWITT, TRUDY L.
O'CROWLEY, BRIAN A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69177882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Personally identifiable information determination
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided in which a system analyzes a first set of data to derive a first distribution output that is based on a first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data and a domain class model. The system utilizes the first distribution output as a baseline input to generate a second conjugated distribution corresponding to a second set of data and the domain class model. Next, the system derives a second distribution output of the second set of data based on the second conjugated distribution. The second distribution output identifies at least one personally identifiable information (PII) data field corresponding to the second set of data that was not identified as a PII data field in the domain class model. In turn, the system tags at least a portion of the second set of data as PII based on the derived second distribution output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by an information handling system that includes a memory and a processor, the method comprising: deriving a first distribution output of a first set of data based on a first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data and a domain class model; utilizing the first distribution output as a baseline input to generate a second conjugated distribution corresponding to a second set of data and the domain class model; deriving a second distribution output of the second set of data based on the second conjugated distribution, wherein the second distribution output identifies at least one personally identifiable information (PII) data field corresponding to the second set of data that was not identified as a PII data field in the domain class model; and tagging at least a portion of the second set of data as PII based on the derived second distribution output.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: analyzing the second conjugated distribution by a machine learning component, wherein the analyzing identifies one or more successful PII classifications of the second set of data; and adjusting the domain class model based on the analyzing of the second conjugated distribution.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein, in response to adjusting the domain class model, the method further comprises: iteratively re-adjusting the domain class model based on subsequent analysis of a plurality of subsequent sets of data.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein, prior to the deriving of the first distribution output, the method further comprises: determining a set of datatypes classified as PII based on analyzing a set of tagged data; and utilizing the determined set of datatypes as the baseline input to generate the first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data, wherein the first set of data is a set of manually tagged data.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: deriving the domain class model based on the determined set of datatypes classified as PII.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining that the at least one PII data field comprises PII data in response to detecting that the PII data was previously stored in a different PII data field.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one PII data field is a metadata field that links to a data field comprising PII data.
8. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: deriving a first distribution output of a first set of data based on a first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data and a domain class model; utilizing the first distribution output as a baseline input to generate a second conjugated distribution corresponding to a second set of data and the domain class model; deriving a second distribution output of the second set of data based on the second conjugated distribution, wherein the second distribution output identifies at least one personally identifiable information (PII) data field corresponding to the second set of data that was not identified as a PII data field in the domain class model; and tagging at least a portion of the second set of data as PII based on the derived second distribution output.
9. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: analyzing the second conjugated distribution by a machine learning component, wherein the analyzing identifies one or more successful PII classifications of the second set of data; and adjusting the domain class model based on the analyzing of the second conjugated distribution.
10. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein, in response to adjusting the domain class model, the processors perform additional actions comprising: iteratively re-adjusting the domain class model based on subsequent analysis of a plurality of subsequent sets of data.
11. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein, prior to the deriving of the first distribution output, the processors perform additional actions comprising: determining a set of datatypes classified as PII based on analyzing a set of tagged data; and utilizing the determined set of datatypes as the baseline input to generate the first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data, wherein the first set of data is a set of manually tagged data.
12. The information handling system of claim 11 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: deriving the domain class model based on the determined set of datatypes classified as PII.
13. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the processors perform additional actions comprising: determining that the at least one PII data field comprises PII data in response to detecting that the PII data was previously stored in a different PII data field.
14. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the at least one PII data field is a metadata field that links to a data field comprising PII data.
15. A computer program product stored in a computer readable storage medium, comprising computer program code that, when executed by an information handling system, causes the information handling system to perform actions comprising: deriving a first distribution output of a first set of data based on a first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data and a domain class model; utilizing the first distribution output as a baseline input to generate a second conjugated distribution corresponding to a second set of data and the domain class model; deriving a second distribution output of the second set of data based on the second conjugated distribution, wherein the second distribution output identifies at least one personally identifiable information (PII) data field corresponding to the second set of data that was not identified as a PII data field in the domain class model; and tagging at least a portion of the second set of data as PII based on the derived second distribution output.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: analyzing the second conjugated distribution by a machine learning component, wherein the analyzing identifies one or more successful PII classifications of the second set of data; and adjusting the domain class model based on the analyzing of the second conjugated distribution.
17. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein, in response to adjusting the domain class model, the information handling system performs further actions comprising: iteratively re-adjusting the domain class model based on subsequent analysis of a plurality of subsequent sets of data.
18. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein, prior to the deriving of the first distribution output, the information handling system performs further actions comprising: determining a set of datatypes classified as PII based on analyzing a set of tagged data; and utilizing the determined set of datatypes as the baseline input to generate the first conjugated distribution corresponding to the first set of data, wherein the first set of data is a set of manually tagged data.
19. The computer program product of claim 18 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: deriving the domain class model based on the determined set of datatypes classified as PII.
20. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the information handling system performs further actions comprising: determining that the at least one PII data field comprises PII data in response to detecting that the PII data was previously stored in a different PII data field.
</claims>
</document>
