<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/04,G01N33/68
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVIC
WORMSER, GARY P.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELISLE, JOHN, T.
MOLINS, CLAUDIA R.
WORMSER, GARY P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64566304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIFFERENTIATION OF LYME DISEASE AND SOUTHERN TICK-ASSOCIATED RASH ILLNESS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a biosignature that distinguishes Lyme disease, including early Lyme disease, from STARI. The present disclosure also provides methods for detecting Lyme disease and STARI, as well as methods for treating subjects diagnosed with Lyme disease or STARI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing a blood sample from a subject, the method comprising (a) deproteinizing the blood sample to produce a metabolite extract; (b) performing liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry on a sample of the metabolite extract; and (c) providing abundance values for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, Table C, or Table D.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject has at least one symptom that is associated with Lyme disease or STARI.
3. A method for classifying a subject as having Lyme disease or STARI, the method comprising: (a) deproteinizing a blood sample from a subject to produce a metabolite extract, wherein the subject has at least one symptom that is associated with Lyme disease or STARI; (b) performing liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry on a sample of the metabolite extract; (c) providing abundance values for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, Table C, or Table D; and (d) inputting the abundance values from step (c) into a classification model trained with samples of metabolite extracts derived from suitable controls, wherein the classification model produces a disease score and the disease score distinguishes subjects with Lyme disease or STARI.
4. A method for treating a subject with Lyme disease, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a disease score from a mass spectrometry based test; (b) diagnosing the subject with Lyme disease based on the disease score; and (c) administering a treatment to the subject with Lyme disease; wherein the mass spectrometry based test comprises (i) deproteinizing a blood sample from a subject to produce a metabolite extract; (ii) performing liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry on a sample of the metabolite extract; (iii) providing abundance values for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, Table C, or Table D; and (iv) inputting the abundance values from step (iii) into a classification model trained with samples of metabolite extracts derived from suitable controls, wherein the classification model produces a disease score and the disease score distinguishes subjects with Lyme disease.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the subject is diagnosed with early Lyme disease.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the treatment is a diagnostic test, a pharmacological treatment, a non-pharmacological treatment or any combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the treatment is a pharmacological treatment selected from an antibiotic, an antibacterial agent, a vaccine, an immune modulator, an anti-inflammatory agent, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the treatment is a diagnostic test.
9. A method for treating a subject with STARI, the method comprising: (a) obtaining a disease score from a mass spectrometry based test; (b) diagnosing the subject with STARI based on the disease score; and (c) administering a treatment to the subject with STARI; wherein the test comprises (i) deproteinizing a blood sample from a subject to produce a metabolite extract; (ii) performing liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry on a sample of the metabolite extract; (iii) providing abundance values for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, Table C, or Table D; and (iv) inputting the abundance values from step (iii) into a classification model trained with samples of metabolite extracts derived from suitable controls, wherein the classification model produces a disease score and the disease score distinguishes subjects with STARI disease.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the treatment is a diagnostic test, a pharmacological treatment, a non-pharmacological treatment or any combination thereof.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the treatment is a pharmacological treatment selected from an antibiotic, an antibacterial agent, a vaccine, an immune modulator, an anti-inflammatory agent, or a combination thereof.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the treatment is a diagnostic test.
13. The method of claim 3, wherein an area under the curve (AUC) value for an ROC curve of the classification model is about 0.8 or greater.
14. The method of claim 3, wherein the model has a sensitivity from about 0.8 to about 1 and/or a specificity from about 0.8 to about 1, and optionally an area under the curve (AUC) value for an ROC curve that is about 0.8 or greater.
15. The method of claim 3, wherein the model has a sensitivity from about 0.85 to about 1 and/or a specificity from about 0.85 to about 1, and optionally an area under the curve (AUC) value for an ROC curve that is about 0.8 or greater.
16. The method of claim 3, wherein the model has a sensitivity from about 0.9 to about 1 and/or a specificity from about 0.9 to about 1, and optionally an area under the curve (AUC) value for an ROC curve that is about 0.8 or greater.
17. The method of claim 3, wherein: abundance values are provided for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, or Table D; and the suitable controls comprise a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for Lyme disease, and a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for STARI.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 95% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease and an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 97% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease and an accuracy of at least 87% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI.
20. The method of claim 3, wherein: abundance values are provided for each molecular feature in Table A, Table B, or Table D; and the suitable controls comprise a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for Lyme disease, a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for STARI, and a blood sample from a healthy subject.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 95% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease and an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 97% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease and an accuracy of at least 87% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI.
23. The method of claim 3, wherein: abundance values are provided for each molecular feature in Table C or Table D; the suitable controls include a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for Lyme disease, a blood sample from a subject known to be positive for STARI, and a blood sample from a healthy subject.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease, an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI, and an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a healthy subject
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the classification model has an accuracy of at least 85% for detecting a sample from a subject with Lyme disease, an accuracy of at least 90% for detecting a sample from a subject with STARI, and an accuracy of at least 90% for detecting a sample from a healthy subject.
26. The method of claim 3, wherein the blood sample is a serum sample.
27. The method of claim 3, wherein the subject has at least one symptom that is associated with both Lyme disease and STARI.
28. The method of claim 3, wherein the subject has an erythema migrans rash.
29. The method of claim 3, wherein the subject's serum is negative for antibodies to Lyme disease-causing Borrelia species.
</claims>
</document>
