<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G05B23/02,G06F30/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROCKWELL AUTOMATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KORPELA, JESSICA L.
REISSNER, KYLE K.
BARON, PETER
TRUONG, JESSICA M.
REHL, ERIC
SATHE, AMIT R.
JEREB, BARRY M.
SWARTZENDRUBER, TRACY L.
DIPERT, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION PROJECT ACCELERATION
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of the present technology provide an integrated platform that provides acceleration tools that can be used across multiple lifecycle phases of an industrial automation system to assist users in various lifecycle phases of an industrial automation system. In accordance with various embodiments, the integrated platform can take historical designs and provide various acceleration actions (e.g., initial designs, answering specific questions, expert analysis, etc.) for a current system. Various embodiments can use a common, cross-platform data file that links activity and efficiently provides needed information to a user. Some embodiments provide and manage reviews of layouts or designs by experts (e.g., individuals and expert systems) to aid in identifying needed changes to the design or system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium, having stored thereon instructions that, upon execution by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a request from a user of an integrated platform for an expert analysis; in response to receiving the request, analyze the request from the user; generate one or more response options based on analyzing the request; and generate an automated response to the request based on the one or more response options.
2. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the request is received via a virtual assistant providing voice interactions.
3. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine that the one or more response options are not satisfactory; in response to determining the one or more response options are not satisfactory, identify an expert; and initiate a communication channel between the expert and the user as the automated response.
4. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 3, wherein the instructions to identify the expert comprise instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to identify the expert based on at least one of experience, company affiliation, degrees, or certifications.
5. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 3, wherein the expert is at least one of a distributor of components, a system integrator, a customer of the integrated platform, an employee of a manufacturer of the components, or an employee associated with the integrated platform.
6. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: access a cross-platform file; retrieve data regarding an industrial automation project from the cross-platform file; and analyze the request in view of the data within the cross-platform file.
7. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the request from the user includes an inquiry to identify missing components from an industrial automation system design.
8. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify one or more predicted missing components based on project design goals of the industrial automation system design.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify a second industrial automation system design based on the second industrial automation system design having similar components to the industrial automation system design; and identify one or more predicted missing components based on the second industrial automation system design.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions to analyze the request from the user comprise instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: provide the request as input to a machine learning algorithm; and receive the one or more response options as output from the machine learning algorithm.
11. An integrated platform, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory having stored thereon instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a request from a user of an integrated platform for an expert analysis; in response to receiving the request, analyze the request from the user; generate one or more response options based on analyzing the request; and generate an automated response to the request based on the one or more response options.
12. The integrated platform of claim 11, wherein the request is received via a virtual assistant providing voice interactions.
13. The integrated platform of claim 12, further comprising: one or more natural language processors, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: invoke the natural language processor, wherein: the one or more natural language processors, upon being invoked: analyze the request; and translate the request to an action within an application of the integrated platform, and the action is one of the one or more response options.
14. The integrated platform of claim 11, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine that the one or more response options are not satisfactory; in response to determining the one or more response options are not satisfactory, identify an expert; and initiate a communication channel between the expert and the user as the automated response.
15. The integrated platform of claim 14, wherein the instructions to identify the expert comprise instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to identify the expert based on at least one of experience, company affiliation, degrees, or certifications.
16. The integrated platform of claim 14, wherein the expert is at least one of a distributor of components, a system integrator, a customer of the integrated platform, an employee of a manufacturer of the components, or an employee associated with the integrated platform.
17. The integrated platform of claim 11, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: access a cross-platform file; retrieve data regarding an industrial automation project from the cross-platform file; and analyze the request in view of the data within the cross-platform file.
18. The integrated platform of claim 11, wherein the request from the user includes an inquiry to identify missing components from an industrial automation system design.
19. The integrated platform of claim 18, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify one or more predicted missing components based on project design goals of the industrial automation system design.
20. The integrated platform of claim 18, wherein the instructions comprise further instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify a second industrial automation system design based on the second industrial automation system design having similar components to the industrial automation system design; and identify one or more predicted missing components based on the second industrial automation system design.
</claims>
</document>
