<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Erickson, Jeremy Lee
Mooney, Nicholas James
Steele, Nicholas Hamilton
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POLICY ENFORCEMENT AND INTROSPECTION ON AN AUTHENTICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An authentication system handles authentication requests to apply introspection and policy enforcement. A policy server obtains a client security policy and an authenticator security policy. The policy server obtains an encrypted credential request with client metadata from a client and determines whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy. The policy server provides the encrypted credential request to an authenticator device and obtains an encrypted credential response with authenticator metadata in response. The policy server determines whether the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy. The policy server processes the encrypted credential response, without decrypting the encrypted credential request or the encrypted credential response, based on a determination of whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a policy server, obtaining a client security policy and an authenticator security policy; obtaining an encrypted credential request with client metadata from a client; determining whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy; providing the encrypted credential request to an authenticator device; obtaining an encrypted credential response with authenticator metadata from the authenticator device; determining whether the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy; and processing the encrypted credential response, without decrypting the encrypted credential request or the encrypted credential response, based on a determination of whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing a record of the encrypted credential request, the record including at least a portion of the client metadata.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising storing at least a portion of the authenticator metadata in the record.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the encrypted credential request and the encrypted credential response are part of a passwordless authentication mechanism.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, responsive to a determination that the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy, providing the encrypted credential response to the client.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising, responsive to a determination that the client metadata violates the client security policy or the authenticator metadata violates the authenticator security policy, providing a first failure message to the client.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising providing a second failure message to the authenticator device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the authenticator security policy includes a comparison of the client metadata to the authenticator metadata.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining additional metadata from another computing device; determining whether the additional metadata violates either the client security policy of the authenticator security policy; and processing the encrypted credential response based on a determination of whether any of the client metadata, the authenticator metadata, or the additional metadata violates either the client security policy or the authenticator security policy.
10. An apparatus comprising: a network interface configured to communicate with a client and an authenticator device across one or more computer networks; and a processor configured to: obtain a client security policy and an authenticator security policy; obtain from the client via the network interface, an encrypted credential request with client metadata; determine whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy; cause the network interface to provide the encrypted credential request to the authenticator device; obtain from the authenticator device via the network interface, an encrypted credential response with authenticator metadata; determine whether the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy; and process the encrypted credential response, without decrypting the encrypted credential request or the encrypted credential response, based on a determination of whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to store a record of the encrypted credential request, the record including at least a portion of the client metadata or at least a portion of the authenticator metadata.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to, responsive to a determination that the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy, cause the network interface to provide the encrypted credential response to the client.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to, responsive to a determination that the client metadata violates the client security policy or the authenticator metadata violates the authenticator security policy, cause the network interface to provide a first failure message to the client.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to cause the network interface to provide a second failure message to the authenticator device.
15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain additional metadata from another computing device; determine whether the additional metadata violates either the client security policy of the authenticator security policy; and process the encrypted credential response based on a determination of whether any of the client metadata, the authenticator metadata, or the additional metadata violates either the client security policy or the authenticator security policy.
16. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor of a policy server, cause the processor to: obtain a client security policy and an authenticator security policy; obtain an encrypted credential request with client metadata from a client; determine whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy; provide the encrypted credential request to an authenticator device; obtain an encrypted credential response with authenticator metadata from the authenticator device; determine whether the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy; and process the encrypted credential response, without decrypting the encrypted credential request or the encrypted credential response, based on a determination of whether the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 16, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to store a record of the encrypted credential request, the record including at least a portion of the client metadata or at least a portion of the authenticator metadata.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 16, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to, responsive to a determination that the client metadata satisfies the client security policy and the authenticator metadata satisfies the authenticator security policy, provide the encrypted credential response to the client.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 16, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to, responsive to a determination that the client metadata violates the client security policy or the authenticator metadata violates the authenticator security policy, provide a first failure message to the client.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 19, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to provide a second failure message to the authenticator device.
</claims>
</document>
