<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENOMOTO, SHIGERU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63446184
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EMULATING PLAYER BEHAVIOR AFTER PLAYER DEPARTURE
</title>

<abstract>
Multiplayer video games involve multiple players playing using either a single computer system or multiple computer systems connected together. While a first player of the multiplayer game is playing the multiplayer game, the first player's actions are tracked and stored. When the first player quits or stops responding before the multiplayer game has completed, the first player is replaced by a computer-simulated version of the first player that selects its actions based on probabilities calculated from the tracked actions of the first player. The multiplayer game is thus able to continue without interruption or disruption, and the first player's playstyle is preserved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for simulating player behavior, the method comprising: receiving information regarding a plurality of in-game actions from a user device, each in-game action taken by a player under an associated set of conditions during play of one or more game titles; evaluating the received information to identify one or more inputs associated with each in-game action; assigning each in-game action to one or more categories based on the associated set of conditions; storing the in-game actions in memory in association with the respectively identified inputs and the assigned categories; identifying that a simulation mode has been triggered for the player during a game session of an identified game title, wherein the player is associated with a control object in the game session; identifying a plurality of possible actions to be taken by the control object in response to a current set of condition in the game session, wherein the identified possible actions are associated with conditions corresponding to the current set of conditions; and commanding the control object to perform an action selected from the identified possible actions within the game session, wherein the control object performs the action in accordance with the associated inputs stored in memory.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting the action based on at least one probability value corresponding to each of the plurality of possible actions.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one probability value is based on an amount of past in-game actions corresponding to the respective possible action taken by the player under the associated set of conditions.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one probability value is based on a tracked user behavior corresponding to the respective possible action.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying a plurality of possible actions includes applying a pathfinding algorithm to identify that each of the possible actions meets a predetermined likelihood.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the action is further based on a weighted random selection algorithm that applies one or more weights based on at least one probability value associated with the selected action.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the control object corresponds to one or more manipulable objects within a virtual environment of the identified game title.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action includes outputting a player exit message that indicates that the player has left the game, the player exit message outputted to one or more other user devices participating in the game session.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying artificial intelligence and machine learning to alter at least one probability associated with each of the possible actions, wherein a next selected action for the same set of conditions is based on the at least one altered probability value.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising ending the simulation mode based on detecting that the player has rejoined the game session.
11. A system for simulating player behavior, the system comprising: a game control interface that receives information regarding a plurality of in-game actions from a user device, each in-game action taken by a player under an associated set of conditions during play of one or more game titles; memory that stores the in-game actions; and a processor that executes the stored instructions, wherein execution of the stored instructions by the processor: evaluates the received information to identify one or more inputs associated with each in-game action; assigns each in-game action to one or more categories based on the associated set of conditions, wherein the memory stores in-game actions in association with the respectively identified inputs and the assigned categories; identifies that a simulation mode has been triggered for the player during a game session of an identified game title, wherein the player is associated with a control object in the game session; identifies a plurality of possible actions to be taken by the control object in response to a current set of condition in the game session, wherein the identified possible actions are associated with conditions corresponding to the current set of conditions; and commands the control object to perform an action selected from the identified possible actions within the game session, wherein the control object performs the action in accordance with the associated inputs stored in the memory.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor executes further instructions to select the action based on at least one probability value corresponding to each of the plurality of possible actions.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one probability value is based on an amount of past in-game actions corresponding to the respective possible action taken by the player under the associated set of conditions.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one probability value is based on a tracked user behavior corresponding to the respective possible action.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor identifies a plurality of possible actions by applying a pathfinding algorithm to identify that each of the possible actions meets a predetermined likelihood.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor selects the action further based on a weighted random selection algorithm that applies one or more weights based on at least one probability value associated with the selected action.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the control object corresponds to one or more manipulable objects within a virtual environment of the identified game title.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the selected action includes outputting a player exit message that indicates that the player has left the game, the player exit message outputted to one or more other user devices participating in the game session
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor further applies artificial intelligence and machine learning to alter at least one probability associated with each of the possible actions, wherein a next selected action for the same set of conditions is based on the at least one altered probability value.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor executes further instructions to end the simulation mode based on detecting that the player has rejoined the game session.
21. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, having embodied thereon a program executable by a processor to perform a method for simulating player behavior, the method comprising: receiving information regarding a plurality of in-game actions from a user device, each in-game action taken by a player under an associated set of conditions during play of one or more game titles; evaluating the received information to identify one or more inputs associated with each in-game action; assigning each in-game action to one or more categories based on the associated set of conditions; storing the in-game actions in memory in association with the respectively identified inputs and the assigned categories; identifying that a simulation mode has been triggered for the player during a game session of an identified game title, wherein the player is associated with a control object in the game session; identifying a plurality of possible actions to be taken by the control object in response to a current set of condition in the game session, wherein the identified possible actions are associated with conditions corresponding to the current set of conditions; and commanding the control object to perform an action selected from the identified possible actions within the game session, wherein the control object performs the action in accordance with the associated inputs stored in memory.
</claims>
</document>
