<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
S. A. F. A. I.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MASUD, AHMED
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71610003
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods For Self-Aware, Self-Healing, And Self-Defending Data
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments include methods and devices for transforming a data block into weights for a neural network. Some embodiments may include training a first neural network of a cybernetic engram to reproduce the data block, and replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of transforming a data block into weights for a neural network, comprising: training a first neural network of a cybernetic engram to reproduce the data block; and replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an operation request for the data block; receiving a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and the key input in response to receiving the operation request.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; and executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to verification for the reproduced data block.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising executing authentication for the reproduced data block by a third neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to authentication for the reproduced data block.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram; retrieving different weights in response to failure to verify the reproduced data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the different weights, and the key input, resulting in a reproduced data block.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block comprises storing the weights to a distributed ledger.
8. A computing device, comprising a processor configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations comprising: training a first neural network of a cybernetic engram to reproduce a data block; and replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations further comprising: receiving an operation request for the data block; receiving a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and the key input in response to receiving the operation request.
10. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; and executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block.
11. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations further comprising executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to verification for the reproduced data block.
12. The computing device of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations further comprising executing authentication for the reproduced data block by a third neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to authentication for the reproduced data block.
13. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram; retrieving different weights in response to failure to verify the reproduced data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the different weights, and the key input, resulting in a reproduced data block.
14. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured with processor-executable instructions for causing the processor to implement operations such that replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block comprises storing the weights to a distributed ledger.
15. A non-transitory, processor-readable medium having stored thereon processor-executable instructions configured to cause a processor to perform operations comprising: training a first neural network of a cybernetic engram to reproduce a data block; and replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block.
16. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: receiving an operation request for the data block; receiving a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and the key input in response to receiving the operation request.
17. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; and executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block.
18. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations further comprising executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to verification for the reproduced data block.
19. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations further comprising executing authentication for the reproduced data block by a third neural network of a cybernetic engram, wherein executing an operation of an operation request for the data block on the reproduced data block occurs in response to authentication for the reproduced data block.
20. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations such that replacing the data block in memory with weights used by the first neural network to reproduce the data block comprises storing the weights to a distributed ledger, and wherein the stored processor-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to perform operations further comprising: reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the weights, and a key input configured to trigger the first neural network to reproduce the data block, resulting in a reproduced data block; executing verification for the reproduced data block by a second neural network of a cybernetic engram; retrieving different weights in response to failure to verify the reproduced data block; and reproducing the data block using the first neural network, the different weights, and the key input, resulting in a reproduced data block.
</claims>
</document>
