<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAN, JAMES W.
FORBES, ERIC
HOOSHIARI, ALIREZA
CELENTI, DAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745531
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine Learning-Enabled Event Tree for Rapid and Accurate Customer Problem Resolution
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies disclosed herein are directed to a machine learning-enabled event tree ("MLET") for rapid and accurate customer problem resolution. According to one aspect disclosed herein, a designer system can receive a customer problem to be modeled. The designer system can create, based upon input from a designer, a plurality of levels and a plurality of nodes for an MLET to be used to resolve the customer problem. The designer system can create, further based upon the input, a plurality of Boolean logic gates between the plurality of levels of the MLET. The designer system can obtain a plurality of machine learning models and, further based upon the input, can create a navigation controller to link the plurality of machine learning models to the plurality of nodes in the MLET. The designer system can save the MLET for the customer problem.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a designer system comprising a processor, a customer problem to be modeled; creating, by the designer system, based upon input from a designer, a plurality of levels and a plurality of nodes for a machine learning-enabled event tree to be used to resolve the customer problem; creating, by the designer system, based upon the input from the designer, a plurality of Boolean logic gates between the plurality of levels of the machine learning-enabled event tree; obtaining, by the designer system, a plurality of machine learning models; designing, by the designer system, based upon the input from the designer, a navigation controller to link the plurality of machine learning models to the plurality of nodes in the machine learning-enabled event tree; and saving, by the designer system, the machine learning-enabled event tree for the customer problem.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer problem is associated with a service provided by a service provider to a customer.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer problem is associated with a customer device associated with a customer.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer problem is associated with a network utilized by a customer.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of nodes comprises a top event node indicative of the customer problem and an intermediate event node indicative of a symptom of the customer problem; and wherein the top event node and the intermediate event node are connected via a Boolean logic gate of the plurality of Boolean logic gates.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of nodes further comprises a root cause of the customer problem.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the navigation controller defines a plurality of navigation options to be used by a customer service agent to traverse the machine learning-enabled event tree.
8. A computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a customer problem to be modeled; creating, based upon input from a designer, a plurality of levels and a plurality of nodes for a machine learning-enabled event tree to be used to resolve the customer problem; creating, based upon the input from the designer, a plurality of Boolean logic gates between the plurality of levels of the machine learning-enabled event tree; obtaining a plurality of machine learning models; designing, based upon the input from the designer, a navigation controller to link the plurality of machine learning models to the plurality of nodes in the machine learning-enabled event tree; and saving the machine learning-enabled event tree for the customer problem.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the customer problem is associated with a service provided by a service provider to a customer.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the customer problem is associated with a customer device associated with a customer.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the customer problem is associated with a network utilized by a customer.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the plurality of nodes comprises a top event node indicative of the customer problem and an intermediate event node indicative of a symptom of the customer problem; and wherein the top event node and the intermediate event node are connected via a Boolean logic gate of the plurality of Boolean logic gates.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the plurality of nodes further comprises a root cause of the customer problem.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the navigation controller defines a plurality of navigation options to be used by a customer service agent to traverse the machine learning-enabled event tree.
15. A method comprising: receiving, by a customer service agent device comprising a processor, a customer problem; determining, by the customer service agent device, a machine learning-enabled event tree to be used to troubleshoot and resolve the customer problem, wherein the machine learning-enabled event tree comprises a plurality of levels and a plurality of nodes, and wherein at least one of the plurality of nodes is linked to a machine learning model; presenting, by the customer service agent device, the machine learning-enabled event tree to a customer service agent; receiving, by the customer service agent device, selection of a target node from the plurality of nodes in the machine learning-enabled event tree; and presenting, by the customer service agent device, a navigation option for the target node, wherein the navigation option, when selected, causes execution of the machine learning model.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising receiving, by the customer service agent device, selection of the navigation option for the target node.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: in response to receiving selection of the navigation option for the target node, causing the machine learning model to be executed; and presenting a recommendation based upon an output of the machine learning model.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the recommendation indicates a specific level of the plurality of levels to which the customer service agent should jump in a traversal of the machine learning-enabled event tree.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the recommendation indicates a specific node of the plurality of nodes to which the customer service agent should jump in a traversal of the machine learning-enabled event tree.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the recommendation indicates a root cause of the customer problem; and wherein the machine learning model comprises a monolithic machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
