<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIDALEO, DOUGLAS A.
KENNEDY, JAMES R.
LEHMAN, JILL FAIN
El Haddad, Kevin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662997
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated Determination of Expressions for an Interactive Social Agent
</title>

<abstract>
A system providing an interactive social agent can include a computing platform having a hardware processor and a memory storing a training content standardization software code configured to receive content depicting human expressions and including annotation data describing the human expressions from multiple content annotation sources, generate a corresponding content descriptor for each content annotation source to translate the annotation data into a standardized data format, and transform the annotation data into the standardized data format using the corresponding content descriptor. The content and the annotation data in the to standardized format are stored as training data for use in training expressions for the interactive social agent. The memory may also store a character remapping software code configured to receive data identifying an expression for the interactive social agent, identify a character persona of the interactive social agent, and determine a modified expression based on expressive idiosyncrasies of the character persona.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system providing an interactive social agent, the system comprising: a computing platform including a hardware processor and a system memory; a training content standardization software code stored in the system memory; the hardware processor configured to execute the training content standardization software code to: receive a content depicting human expressions and including annotation data describing the human expressions from each of a plurality of content annotation sources; for each of the plurality of content annotation sources, generate a corresponding content descriptor configured to translate the annotation data into a standardized data format; for each of the plurality of content annotation sources, transform the annotation data into the standardized data format using the corresponding content descriptor; and for all of the plurality of content annotation sources, store the content and the annotation data in the standardized format as a training data in a training database for use in training an expression by the interactive social agent in communicating with a user.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein transformation of the annotation data into the standardized data format standardizes annotations applied to a plurality of different content types including audio content and video content.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein transformation of the annotation data into the standardized data format results in a same set of annotation tags being applied to the content received from all of the plurality of content sources.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein transformation of the annotation data into the standardized data format results in a same set of annotation tagging criteria being applied to the content received from all of the plurality of content sources.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising an expression determining software code including at least one expression predicting artificial neural network (ANN) stored in the system memory, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the expression determining software code to: retrieve the training data including the content and the annotation data in the standardized format from the training database; train the at least one expression predicting ANN using the training data; detect a communication directed to the interactive social agent by the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; and determine an expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the hardware processor executes the expression determining software code to determine the expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user based on a character archetype of one of a TV character persona, a movie character persona, a video game character persona, and a theme park character persona assumed by the interactive social agent.
7. A method for use by a system providing an interactive social agent, the system including a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a training content standardization software code, the method comprising: receiving, by the training content standardization software code executed by the hardware processor, a content depicting human expressions and including annotation data describing the human expressions from each of a plurality of content annotation sources; for each of the plurality of content annotation sources, generating, by the training content standardization software code executed by the hardware processor, a corresponding content descriptor configured to translate the annotation data into a standardized data format; for each of the plurality of content annotation sources, transforming, by the training content standardization software code executed by the hardware processor, the annotation data into the standardized data format using the corresponding content descriptor; and for all of the plurality of content annotation sources, storing, by the training content standardization software code executed by the hardware processor, the content and the annotation data in the standardized format as a training data in a training database for use in training an expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with a user.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein transforming the annotation data into the standardized data format standardizes annotations applied to a plurality of different content types including audio content and video content.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein transformation of the annotation data into the standardized data format results in a same set of annotation tags being applied to the content received from all of the plurality of content sources.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein transformation of the annotation data into the standardized data format results in a same set of annotation tagging criteria being applied to the content received from all of the plurality of content sources.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein the system memory further stores an expression determining software code including at least one expression predicting artificial neural network (ANN), the method further comprising: retrieving, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, the training data including the content and the annotation data in the standardized format from the training database; training the at least one expression predicting ANN, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, using the training data; detecting, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, a communication directed to the interactive social agent by the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; and determining, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, an expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user is based on a character archetype of one of a TV character persona, a movie character persona, a video game character persona, and a theme park character persona assumed by the interactive social agent.
13. A system providing an interactive social agent, the system comprising: a computing platform including a hardware processor and a system memory; a character remapping software code stored in the system memory; the hardware processor configured to execute the character remapping software code to: receive a data identifying an expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with a user; identify a character persona assumed by the interactive social agent; obtain a personality profile of the character persona, the personality profile including at least one expressive idiosyncrasy of the character persona; determine a modified expression specifically for the character persona assumed by the interactive social agent based on the data identifying the expression and the expressive idiosyncrasy of the character persona; and render the modified expression using the interactive social agent.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the character persona is a persona of one of a TV character, a movie character, a video game character, and a theme park character.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising an expression determining software code including at least one expression predicting artificial neural network (ANN) stored in the system memory, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the expression determining software code to: detect a communication directed to the interactive social agent by the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; determine the expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; and output the data identifying the expression to the character remapping software code.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the hardware processor executes the expression determining software code to determine the expression for communication by the interactive social agent based on a character archetype of the character persona assumed by the interactive social agent.
17. A method for use by a system providing an interactive social agent, the system including a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a character remapping software code, the method comprising: receiving, by the character remapping software code executed by the hardware processor, a data identifying an expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with a user; identifying, by the character remapping software code executed by the hardware processor, a character persona assumed by the interactive social agent; obtaining, by the character remapping software code executed by the hardware processor, a personality profile of the character persona, the personality profile including at least one expressive idiosyncrasy of the character persona; determining, by the character remapping software code executed by the hardware processor, a modified expression specifically for the character persona assumed by the interactive agent based on the data identifying the expression and the expressive idiosyncrasy of the character persona; and rendering, by the character remapping software code executed by the hardware processor, the modified expression using the interactive social agent.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the character persona is a persona of one of a TV character, a movie character, a video game character, and a theme park character.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising an expression determining software code including at least one expression predicting artificial neural network (ANN) stored in the system memory, the method further comprising: detecting, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, a communication directed to the interactive social agent by the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; determining, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, the expression for use by the interactive social agent in communicating with the user, using the at least one expression predicting ANN; and outputting, by the expression determining software code executed by the hardware processor, the data identifying the expression to the character remapping software code.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein determining the expression for communication by the interactive social agent based on a character archetype of the character persona assumed by the interactive social agent.
</claims>
</document>
