<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F21/78,G06N99/00,H04L9/06,H04W12/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDA, SASIKANTH
JAIN, ABHISHEK
MATHUR, AAKANKSHA
PATIL, SANDEEP, RAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641345
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-LAYERED DATA SECURITY IN MOBILE PERSONAL COMPUTING DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods that can provide multi-layered data security in mobile personal computing devices are provided. One method includes assigning, by a processor, one of a plurality of security levels to applications of a mobile personal computing device, assigning one of the plurality of security levels to storage partitions of a storage device of the mobile personal computing device, and providing the applications access to data stored on the storage partitions based on a nexus of a first assigned security level for each application and a second assigned security level for each storage partition. Systems and apparatus that can include, perform, and/or implement the methods are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a classification module that: assigns one of a plurality of security levels to applications of a mobile personal computing device, and assigns one of the plurality of security levels to storage partitions of a storage device of the mobile personal computing device; and a security module that provides the applications access to data stored on the storage partitions based on a nexus of a first assigned security level for each application and a second assigned security level for each storage partition, wherein at least a portion of said modules comprises one or more of a set of hardware circuits, a set of programmable hardware devices, and executable code stored on a set of non-transitory computer-readable storage mediums.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the classification module is configured to one of: automatically assign the one of the plurality of security levels to the applications, and assign the one of the plurality of security levels to the applications based on user input.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a machine-learning module that determines a data type for each portion of a set of data stored on the storage device using a machine-learning technique, wherein: the classification module is configured to assign the one of the plurality of security levels to each portion of the set of data stored on the storage device based on the data type determined for each portion of the set of data, and each portion of the set of data is stored on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an input/output (I/O) module that receives incoming data; and a machine-learning module that determines a data type for the incoming data using a machine-learning technique, wherein: the machine-learning module is configured to determine the data type for the incoming data using the machine-learning technique, the classification module is configured to assign the one of the plurality of security levels to the incoming data based on the data type determined for the incoming data, and the I/O module is configured to store the incoming data on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the plurality of security levels comprises a first security level, a second security level, a third security level, and a fourth security level; one or more portions of the set of data stored on a first storage partition of the storage device and assigned the first security level are encrypted using an Advanced Encryption Standard 256-bit (AES-256) encryption technique; one or more portions of the set of data stored on a second storage partition of the storage device and assigned the second security level are encrypted using an AES-192 encryption technique; one or more portions of the set of data stored on a third storage partition of the storage device and assigned the third security level are encrypted using an AES-128 encryption technique; and one or more portions of the set of data stored on a fourth storage partition of the storage device and assigned the fourth security level are stored unencrypted.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the classification module is configured to assign each portion of a set of data one of the plurality of security levels based on a data type for each portion; and each portion of the set of data is stored on a particular storage partition corresponding to the assigned security level.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the security module is configured to: receive, from a requesting application, an input/output (I/O) request to one of read data from or write data to a storage partition, determine, in response to receiving the I/O request, whether the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level, and perform data access operations in response to the determination.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: in performing the data access operations, the security module is configured to perform I/O operations corresponding to reading the data from or writing the data to the storage partition in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein: the security module is configured to: perform read operations to read the data from the storage partition in response to the I/O request including a read request in performing the I/O operations, perform write operations write the data to the storage partition in response to the I/O request including a write request in performing the I/O operations, and perform the read operations or write operations without allowing the requesting application to access the storage partition.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein: the security module, in performing the data access operations, is configured to terminate the I/O request in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition do not include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level.
11. A method, comprising: assigning, by a processor, one of a plurality of security levels to applications of a mobile personal computing device; assigning, by the processor, one of the plurality of security levels to storage partitions of a storage device of the mobile personal computing device; and providing the applications access to data stored on the storage partitions based on a nexus of a first assigned security level for each application and a second assigned security level for each storage partition upon which a portion of the data is stored.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, from a requesting application, an input/output (I/O) request to one of read data from or write data to a storage partition; determining, in response to receiving the I/O request, whether the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level; and performing data access operations in response to the determination.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein: performing the data access operations comprises performing I/O operations corresponding to reading the data from or writing the data to the storage partition in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level; and terminating the I/O request in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition do not include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level, wherein the I/O operations are performed without allowing the requesting application to access the storage partition.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a data type for each portion of a set of data stored on the storage device using a machine-learning technique; and assigning the one of the plurality of security levels to each portion of the set of data stored on the storage device based on the data type determined for each portion of the set of data, wherein each portion of the set of data is stored on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving incoming data; determining the data type for the incoming data using a machine-learning technique; assigning the one of the plurality of security levels to the incoming data based on the data type determined for the incoming data; and storing the incoming data on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium including program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: assign one of a plurality of security levels to applications of a mobile personal computing device; assign one of the plurality of security levels to storage partitions of a storage device of the mobile personal computing device; and provide the applications access to data stored on the storage partitions based on a nexus of a first assigned security level for each application and a second assigned security level for each storage partition.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the processor to: receive, from a requesting application, an input/output (I/O) request to one of read data from or write data to a storage partition; determine, in response to receiving the I/O request, whether the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level; and perform data access operations in response to the determination.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein: performing the data access operations comprises performing I/O operations corresponding to reading the data from or writing the data to the storage partition in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level; and terminating the I/O request in response to determining that the requesting application and the storage partition do not include the nexus of the first assigned security level and the second assigned security level, wherein the I/O operations are performed without allowing the requesting application to access the storage partition.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the processor to: determine a data type for each portion of a set of data stored on the storage device using a machine-learning technique; and assign the one of the plurality of security levels to each portion of the set of data stored on the storage device based on the data type determined for each portion of the set of data, wherein each portion of the set of data is stored on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the program instructions further cause the processor to: receive incoming data; determine the data type for the incoming data using a machine-learning technique; assign the one of the plurality of security levels to the incoming data based on the data type determined for the incoming data; and store the incoming data on a storage partition including a security level corresponding to the assigned security level.
</claims>
</document>
