<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/4402,H04N21/654,H04N21/658
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, KWANSIK
CHOI, KILSOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69784059
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY DEVICE AND IMAGE DISPLAY METHOD OF THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method of displaying an image in a display device, the method including transmitting, to a content providing device, image request information requesting the content providing device to selectively transmit an image of a first resolution or an image of a second resolution; receiving the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution which is obtained by performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a first upscaler, based on the image request information; based on receiving the image of the first resolution, performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a second upscaler of the display device to obtain a upscaled image having the second resolution and displaying the upscaled image having the second resolution, upscaling capability of the second upscaler being different from upscaling capability of the first upscaler; and based on receiving the image of the second resolution, displaying the image of the second resolution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of displaying an image in a display device, the method comprising: transmitting, to a content providing device, image request information requesting the content providing device to selectively transmit an image of a first resolution or an image of a second resolution; receiving the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution which is obtained by performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a first upscaler, based on the image request information; based on receiving the image of the first resolution, performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a second upscaler of the display device to obtain a upscaled image having the second resolution and displaying the upscaled image having the second resolution, upscaling capability of the second upscaler being different from upscaling capability of the first upscaler; and based on receiving the image of the second resolution, displaying the image of the second resolution.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving information of the first upscaler from the content providing device, wherein the transmitting of the image request information to the content providing device further comprises transmitting the image request information to the content providing device, based on information of the first upscaler and information of the second upscaler.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the transmitting of the image request information to the content providing device, based on the information of the first upscaler and the information of the second upscaler, comprises: based on determining that the upscaling capability of the second upscaler is superior to the upscaling capability of the first upscaler, transmitting, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the first resolution; and based on determining that the upscaling capability of the first upscaler is superior to the upscaling capability of the second upscaler, transmitting, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the second resolution.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the information of the first upscaler and the information of the second upscaler comprise at least one of identification information and capability information.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: transmitting the identification information of the first upscaler to an external server; and receiving capability information of the first upscaler from the external server, wherein the transmitting of the image request information to the content providing device comprises transmitting the image request information based on the received capability information of the first upscaler and capability information of the second upscaler.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether a received image is the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution based on at least one of attribute information of the received image, the attribute information comprising a volume of the received image, a resolution of the received image, and an additional information of the received image.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting of the image request information to the content providing device further comprises: receiving, from the content providing device, upscaling determination information determining whether the image of the first resolution is required; and based on the received upscaling determination information, transmitting, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the first resolution.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising, based on receiving the image of the first resolution, performing a quality processing on the image of the first resolution.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first upscaler and the second upscaler performs upscaling on the image of the first resolution by using an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm based on a neural network.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting of the image request information to the content providing device further comprises transmitting the image request information included in extended display identification data (EDID) data that is image standard data, to the content providing device.
11. A display device comprising: a communication circuit; a display; a memory storing one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions to: control the communication circuit to transmit, to a content providing device, image request information requesting the content providing device to selectively transmit an image of a first resolution or an image of a second resolution; control the communication circuit to receive, from the content providing device, the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution which is obtained by performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a first upscaler; based on receiving the image of the first resolution, perform upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a second upscaler of the display device to obtain a upscaled image having the second resolution and display the upscaled image having the second resolution, upscaling capability of the second upscaler being different from upscaling capability of the first upscaler; and based on receiving the image of the second resolution, display the image of the second resolution.
12. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: control the communication circuit to receive information of the first upscaler from the content providing device; and control the communication circuit to transmit the image request information to the content providing device, based on information of the first upscaler and information of the second upscaler.
13. The display device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: based on determining that the upscaling capability of the second upscaler are superior to the upscaling capability of the first upscaler, control the communication circuit to transmit, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the first resolution; and based on determining that the upscaling capability of the first upscaler are superior to the upscaling capability of the second upscaler, control the communication circuit to transmit, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the second resolution.
14. The display device of claim 12, wherein the information of the first upscaler or the information of the second upscaler comprises at least one of identification information and capability information.
15. The display device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: control the communication circuit to transmit identification information of the first upscaler to an external server; control the communication circuit to receive capability information of the first upscaler from the external server; and control the communication circuit to transmit the image request information to the content providing device, based on the received capability information of the first upscaler and capability information of the second upscaler.
16. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to determine whether a received image is the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution based on at least one of attribute information of the received image, and wherein the attribute information comprises a volume of the received image, a resolution of the received image, and additional information of the received image.
17. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: receive, from the content providing device, upscaling determination information determining whether the image of the first resolution is required; and based on the received upscaling determination information, control the communication circuit to transmit, to the content providing device, the image request information requesting the image of the first resolution.
18. The display device of claim 11, wherein at least one of the first upscaler and the second upscaler performs upscaling with respect to the image of the first resolution by using an artificial intelligence (AI) algorithm based on a neural network.
19. The display device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to control the communication circuit to transmit the image request information included in extended display identification data (EDID) data that is image standard data, to the content providing device.
20. A computer program product including a non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having a program stored thereon to perform an operation method of a display device, the operation method comprising: transmitting, to a content providing device, image request information requesting the content providing device to selectively transmit an image of a first resolution or an image of a second resolution; receiving the image of the first resolution or the image of the second resolution which is obtained by performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a first upscaler, based on the image request information; based on receiving the image of the first resolution, performing upscaling on the image of the first resolution using a second upscaler of the display device to obtain a upscaled image having the second resolution and displaying the upscaled image having the second resolution, upscaling capability of the second upscaler being different from upscaling capability of the first upscaler; and based on receiving the image of the second resolution, displaying the image of the second resolution.
</claims>
</document>
