<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01Q1/46,H04B1/40,H04B10/2581,H04B10/40,H04B3/52,H04J14/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54361212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Transmission device with mode division multiplexing and methods for use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a transmission device that includes at least one transceiver configured to modulate data to generate a plurality of first electromagnetic waves. A plurality of couplers are configured to couple at least a portion of the plurality of first electromagnetic waves to a transmission medium, wherein the plurality of couplers generate a plurality of mode division multiplexed second electromagnetic waves that propagate along the outer surface of the transmission medium. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a first coupler configured to generate first electromagnetic waves at non-optical frequencies conveying first data on a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate via a non-fundamental wave mode in a first direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves have a first electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a first azimuthal orientation to a longitudinal axis of the transmission medium; and a second coupler configured to receive second electromagnetic waves at the non-optical frequencies conveying second data from the transmission medium wherein the second electromagnetic waves have a second electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a second azimuthal orientation to the longitudinal axis of the transmission medium and wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate via the non-fundamental wave mode in a second direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first coupler generates the first electromagnetic waves in response to third electromagnetic waves conveying the first data, and wherein the third electromagnetic waves are guided by the first coupler to the transmission medium.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein a first portion of the third electromagnetic waves propagates within the first coupler and a second portion of the third electromagnetic waves propagates outside the first coupler.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the second coupler generates fourth electromagnetic waves in response to the second electromagnetic waves conveying the first data, and wherein the fourth electromagnetic waves are guided by the second coupler to a transceiver.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein a first portion of the fourth electromagnetic waves propagates within the second coupler and a second portion of the fourth electromagnetic waves propagates outside the second coupler.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first azimuthal orientation differs from the second azimuthal orientation.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first azimuthal orientation is perpendicular to second azimuthal orientation.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along a surface of the transmission medium.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate along a surface of the transmission medium.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first data is directed to a mobile device and the second data is received from a mobile device.
11. A method comprising: generating, via a first coupler, first electromagnetic waves conveying first data at non-optical frequencies on a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate via a non-fundamental wave mode in a first direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves have a first electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a first azimuthal orientation to a longitudinal axis of the transmission medium; and receiving, via a second coupler, second electromagnetic waves conveying second data from the transmission medium wherein the second electromagnetic waves have a second electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a second azimuthal orientation to the longitudinal axis of the transmission medium and wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate via the non-fundamental wave mode in a second direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first coupler generates the first electromagnetic waves in response to third electromagnetic waves conveying the first data, and wherein the third electromagnetic waves are guided by the first coupler to the transmission medium.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein a first portion of the third electromagnetic waves propagates within the first coupler and a second portion of the third electromagnetic waves propagates outside the first coupler.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second coupler generates fourth electromagnetic waves in response to the second electromagnetic waves conveying the first data, and wherein the fourth electromagnetic waves are guided by the second coupler to a transceiver.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein a first portion of the fourth electromagnetic waves propagates within the second coupler and a second portion of the fourth electromagnetic waves propagates outside the second coupler.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the first azimuthal orientation differs from the second azimuthal orientation.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the first azimuthal orientation is perpendicular to second azimuthal orientation.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along a surface of the transmission medium.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate along a surface of the transmission medium.
20. A system comprising: means for coupling first electromagnetic waves conveying first data at non-optical frequencies onto a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate via a non-fundamental wave mode in a first direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves have a first electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a first azimuthal orientation to a longitudinal axis of the transmission medium; and means for coupling second electromagnetic waves conveying second data from the transmission medium wherein the second electromagnetic waves have a second electromagnetic field pattern with a plurality of lobes at a second azimuthal orientation to the longitudinal axis of the transmission medium and wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate via the non-fundamental wave mode in a second direction along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
</claims>
</document>
