<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLUEOWL
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAHL, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046425
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MANAGING INSURANCE CONTRACTS USING TELEMATICS DATA TO BUILD A USER PROFILE
</title>

<abstract>
A system for managing insurance contracts is configured to (i) store a user profile of a user and a current user insurance contract associated with the user, the user profile including user preferences, (ii) access telematics data associated with the user, (iii) based upon the telematics data, generate a usage profile associated with the user, the usage profile including usage characteristics, (iv) associate the usage profile with the user profile, (v) receive offers for insurance contracts from a plurality of insurance providers, wherein each of the offers includes coverage options and target usage characteristics, (vi) for each of the offers, compare the corresponding coverage options to the user preferences and the target usage characteristics to the usage characteristics associated with the user, (vii) automatically determine a desired offer based upon the comparison, and (viii) electronically update the current user insurance contract based upon the desired offer.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer system for managing insurance contracts, the computer system including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the at least one processor programmed to: store a user profile of a user and a current user insurance contract associated with the user, wherein the user profile includes a plurality of user preferences, wherein the user profile and the current user insurance contract are stored in a blockchain structure; access telematics data associated with the user; based upon the telematics data, generate a usage profile associated with the user, the usage profile including one or more usage characteristics; associate the generated usage profile with the user profile; store the usage profile in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain; receive a plurality of offers for insurance contracts from a plurality of insurance providers, wherein each of the plurality of offers includes a plurality of coverage options and one or more target usage characteristics; for each of the plurality of offers, compare the corresponding plurality of coverage options to the plurality of user preferences and the one or more target usage characteristics to the one or more usage characteristics associated with the user; automatically determine a desired offer of the plurality of offers based upon the comparison; electronically update the current user insurance contract based upon the desired offer; and store the updated current user insurance contract in a new block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: determine a device identifier of a user computer device associated with the user; embed the device identifier into the user profile; access the telematics data generated by the user computer device; and store the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: communicatively couple to the user computer device; and retrieve the telematics data from the user computer device.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: determine a device identifier of a vehicle computer device of a vehicle associated with the user; embed the device identifier into the user profile; access the telematics data generated by the vehicle computer device; and store the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: communicatively couple to the vehicle computer device; and retrieve the telematics data from the vehicle computer device.
6. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the telematics data includes at least one of speed data, acceleration data, braking data, location data, route data, navigation data, distance data, timing data, and duration data, and wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to analyze the telematics data according to a plurality of usage identification rules to determine the one or more usage characteristics.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the telematics data includes first telematics data, and wherein the at least one processor is further programmed to: access second telematics data, the second telematics data generated after the first telematics data; update one or more usage characteristics of the usage profile based upon the second telematics data; and store the updated usage profile in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
8. A computer-based method for managing insurance contracts using telematics data to build a user profile, the method implemented on an insurance management ("IM") computer device including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the method comprising: storing, in the memory device, the user profile of a user and a current user insurance contract associated with the user, wherein the user profile includes a plurality of user preferences, wherein the user profile and the current user insurance contract are stored in a blockchain structure; accessing telematics data associated with the user; based upon the telematics data, generating a usage profile associated with the user, the usage profile including one or more usage characteristics; associating the generated usage profile with the user profile; storing the usage profile in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain; receiving a plurality of offers for insurance contracts from a plurality of insurance providers, wherein each of the plurality of offers includes a plurality of coverage options and one or more target usage characteristics; for each of the plurality of offers, comparing the corresponding plurality of coverage options to the plurality of user preferences and the one or more target usage characteristics to the one or more usage characteristics associated with the user; automatically determining a desired offer of the plurality of offers based upon the comparison; electronically updating the current user insurance contract based upon the desired offer; and storing the updated current user insurance contract in a new block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein accessing telematics data comprises: determining a device identifier of a user computer device associated with the user; embedding the device identifier into the user profile; accessing the telematics data generated by the user computer device; and storing the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein accessing the telematics data further comprises: communicatively coupling to the user computer device; and retrieving the telematics data from the user computer device.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein accessing telematics data comprises: determining a device identifier of a vehicle computer device of a vehicle associated with the user; embedding the device identifier into the user profile; accessing the telematics data generated by the vehicle computer device; and storing the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein accessing the telematics data further comprises: communicatively coupling to the vehicle computer device; and retrieving the telematics data from the vehicle computer device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein accessing the telematics data further comprises accessing at least one of speed data, acceleration data, braking data, location data, route data, navigation data, distance data, timing data, and duration data, the method further comprising analyzing the telematics data according to a plurality of usage identification rules to determine the one or more usage characteristics.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the telematics data includes first telematics data, and wherein the method further comprises: accessing second telematics data, the second telematics data generated after the first telematics data; updating one or more usage characteristics of the usage profile based upon the second telematics data; and storing the updated usage profile in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
15. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by at least one processor, the computer-executable instructions cause the processor to: store a user profile of a user and a current user insurance contract associated with the user, wherein the user profile includes a plurality of user preferences, wherein the user profile and the current user insurance contract are stored in a blockchain structure; access telematics data associated with the user; based upon the telematics data, generate a usage profile associated with the user, the usage profile including one or more usage characteristics; associate the generated usage profile with the user profile; store the usage profile in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain; receive a plurality of offers for insurance contracts from a plurality of insurance providers, wherein each of the plurality of offers includes a plurality of coverage options and one or more target usage characteristics; for each of the plurality of offers, compare the corresponding plurality of coverage options to the plurality of user preferences and the one or more target usage characteristics to the one or more usage characteristics associated with the user; automatically determine a desired offer of the plurality of offers based upon the comparison; electronically update the current user insurance contract based upon the desired offer; and store the updated current user insurance contract in a new block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
16. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: determine a device identifier of a user computer device associated with the user; embed the device identifier into the user profile; access the telematics data generated by the user computer device; and store the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
17. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 16, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: communicatively couple to the user computer device; and retrieve the telematics data from the user computer device.
18. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: determine a device identifier of a vehicle computer device of a vehicle associated with the user; embed the device identifier into the user profile; access the telematics data generated by the vehicle computer device; and store the telematics data in a block in the current user insurance contract blockchain.
19. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 18, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: communicatively couple to the vehicle computer device; and retrieve the telematics data from the vehicle computer device.
20. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 18, wherein the telematics data includes at least one of speed data, acceleration data, braking data, location data, route data, navigation data, distance data, timing data, and duration data, and wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to analyze the telematics data according to a plurality of usage identification rules to determine the one or more usage characteristics.
</claims>
</document>
