<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
PATIL, BASAVARAJ
Khan, Mobeen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73245226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integration of a device platform with a core network or a multi-access edge computing environment
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for integrating a device platform in a core network or MEC environment, and managing data communications associated with devices are presented. The device platform, integrated with the core network or MEC environment, can comprise a communication management component (CMC) that can manage communication of data associated with devices connected to the core network. CMC can receive data and metadata from a device, analyze the data and metadata, and, based on the analyzing and data management criteria, determine whether any, all, or a portion of the data is to be communicated to a second device associated with the core network or associated communication network. CMC can be trained, using machine learning, to learn to identify device types, communication protocols, and data payload formats of devices. Based on the analyzing and the training, CMC can determine the device type, communication protocol, and data payload format associated with the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: establishing, by a system comprising a processor, a packet data protocol context and a packet data network connection between a first device and first network equipment via a configured access point name associated with the first network equipment, wherein a core network comprises the first network equipment, second network equipment, and third network equipment, and wherein the first network equipment comprises a gateway device and is associated with the second network equipment; analyzing, by the second network equipment of the system, data received by the third network equipment from the first device, wherein the data is forwarded to the second network equipment to facilitate the analyzing; and determining, by the second network equipment, whether to communicate the data to a second device associated with fourth network equipment based on a first result of the analyzing of the data and a data management criterion relating to data communications associated with the second device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the second network equipment, a device type of the first device, a data communication protocol being utilized for communication of the data by the first device, and a data payload format of the data based on a second result of the analyzing.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving, by the second network equipment, the data from the first device, via the first network equipment or the third network equipment, in accordance with the data communication protocol; and identifying, by the second network equipment, the data based on the data payload format.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: training, by the system utilizing a machine learning technology, the second network equipment based on a group of items of data relating to respective device types of respective devices, respective data communication protocols of the respective devices, and respective data payload formats associated with the respective devices, wherein the determining of the device type, the data communication protocol, and the data payload format is facilitated based on the training of the second network equipment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the determining of the device type of the first device, the data communication protocol being utilized for the communication of the data by the first device, and the data payload format of the data comprises determining at least one of the device type of the first device, the data communication protocol being utilized for the communication of the data by the first device, or the data payload format of the data, based on the training and the second result of the analyzing.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the data communication protocol is a hypertext transfer protocol, a secure hypertext transfer protocol, a message queuing telemetry transport protocol, a machine-to-machine connectivity protocol, an advanced message queuing protocol, a lightweight machine-to-machine protocol, a constrained application protocol, a user datagram protocol, a transmission control protocol, an Internet protocol, or a network-related communication protocol.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: routing, by the system, the data received from the first device to the second network equipment via the first network equipment based on the packet data protocol context and the packet data network connection.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: associating, by the system, respective configured access point names with respective gateway devices of the core network, wherein the respective configured access point names comprise the configured access point name, and wherein the respective gateway devices comprise the first network equipment.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the configured access point name is a first configured access point name, wherein the respective configured access point names comprise the first configured access point name and a second configured access point name, wherein the second configured access point name is associated with fifth network equipment of the respective gateway devices, wherein the first configured access point name and the first network equipment are located in a first location in the core network that is in closer proximity to the first device than a second location in the core network where the second configured access point name and the fifth network equipment are located, and wherein, to facilitate reducing latency between first device and the core network, the packet data protocol context and the packet data network connection is established between the first device and the first network equipment via the first configured access point name over the fifth network equipment via the second configured access point name based on the first location being determined to be in closer proximity to the first device than the second location.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is associated with a data type, an application, or a service, and wherein the method further comprises: determining, by the second network equipment, whether the data satisfies a defined threshold value relating to the data type, the application, or the service, wherein the defined threshold value is determined based on the data management criterion; in response to determining that the data satisfies the defined threshold value, determining, by the second network equipment, that the data is to be communicated to the second device associated with the fourth network equipment of the communication network; and initiating, by the second network device, the communication of the data from the second network equipment to the second device via the fourth network equipment.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is a first item of data, wherein respective items of data comprise the first item of data and a second item of data, and wherein the method further comprises: controlling, by the second network equipment, communication of the respective items of data between the first device and the second device based on the data management criterion, wherein the data management criterion relates to a periodicity of the data communications associated with the second device, and wherein the periodicity specifies a length of time between permitting a second communication of the second item of data from the first device to the second device after a first communication of the first item of data from the first device to the second device is performed.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the data is a first item of data of respective items of data, and wherein the method further comprises: controlling, by the second network equipment, communication of the respective items of data between the first device and the second device based on the data management criterion, to facilitate reducing data traffic communicated in, and usage of bandwidth by, at least the communication network.
13. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: establishing a packet data protocol context and a packet data network connection between a first device and first core network equipment via a configured access point name associated with the first core network equipment, wherein the first core network equipment is a gateway; analyzing information received by second core network equipment from the first device; and determining whether to communicate the information to a second device via third network equipment, based on a first result of the analyzing of the information and an information management criterion relating to information communications associated with the second device, wherein the third network equipment is part of a communication network different from a core network comprising the first core network equipment and the second core network equipment, and wherein the first core network equipment and the second core network equipment are associated with the communication network.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the information is an item of information of respective items of information, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, by the second network equipment, the respective items of information from the first device; and controlling communication of the respective items of information from the core network to the second device, via the second network equipment, based on the information management criterion, to facilitate reducing information traffic communicated in, and an amount of bandwidth utilized by, at least the communication network.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a device type of the first device, a communication protocol being utilized for communication of the information by the first device, and an information payload format of the information based on a second result of the analyzing; receiving the information from the first device based on the communication protocol; and identifying the information based on the information payload format.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: training, utilizing a machine learning technology, fourth network equipment that is part of the core network based on a group of items of data relating to respective device types of respective devices, respective communication protocols of the respective devices, and respective information payload formats associated with the respective devices, wherein the determining of the device type, the communication protocol, and the information payload format is facilitated based on the training of the fourth network equipment.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the information payload format is a binary format, a hexadecimal format, a decimal format, a zoned decimal format, an American Standard Code for Information Exchange format, or an extensible markup language format.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: routing the information from the first device to fourth network equipment of the core network via the first network equipment based on the packet data protocol context and the packet data network connection.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: establishing a packet data protocol context and a packet data network connection between a first device and a first gateway device, which is part of a core network, via a configured access point name associated with the first gateway device; evaluating data received from a first device by a second gateway device that is part of the core network; and determining whether to communicate the data to a second device associated with network equipment, which is not part of the core network, based on a first result of the evaluating of the data and a data management criterion relating to data communications associated with the second device, wherein the core network is associated with the network equipment.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a device type of the first device, a communication protocol being utilized for communication of the data by the first device, and a data payload format of the data based on a second result of the evaluating; receiving the data from the first device in accordance with the communication protocol; and identifying the data based on the data payload format.
</claims>
</document>
