<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/36,G06F16/901,G06K9/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE MELLO BRANDAO, RAFAEL ROSSI
FERREIRA MORENO, MARCIO
FONTOURA DE GUSMAO CERQUEIRA, RENATO
SALLES CIVITARESE, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732498
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOCUMENT RETRIEVAL THROUGH ASSERTION ANALYSIS ON ENTITIES AND DOCUMENT FRAGMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Document retrieval through assertion analysis on entities and document fragments is disclosed. A document is received. Logical structures and entities are extracted from the document by parsing the document. For an entity in the extracted entities, an object representing the entity is created, an assertion made in the document associated with the entity is determined, and the assertion is linked to the object representing the entity. A logical structure from the extracted logical structures and content of the logical structure containing the assertion are identified and linked to the object representing the entity.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method performed by at least one hardware processor, comprising: receiving a document; extracting logical structures and entities from the document by parsing the document; for an entity in the extracted entities, creating an object representing the entity, the creating the object comprising allocating a memory to store the object representing the entity; determining an assertion made in the document associated with the entity; linking the assertion to the object representing the entity; identifying a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion; and linking the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the creating of an object representing the entity, the determining of an assertion made in the document associated with the entity, the linking of the assertion to the object representing the entity, the identifying of a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion, and the linking of the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity, are performed for each of the extracted entities, wherein objects representing the extracted entities are linked based on a predefined dictionary of terms.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the entities are extracted based on a predefined dictionary of terms associated with a domain of the received document.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the linking the assertion to the object representing the entity comprises creating an in-memory object representing the assertion and linking the in-memory object representing the assertion to the object representing the entity.
5. The method claim 1, wherein the linking the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity comprises creating an in-memory object representing the logical structure and an in-memory object representing the content of the logical structure, and linking the in-memory object representing the logical structure and the in-memory object representing the content of the logical structure with the object representing the entity.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the method is repeated for a plurality of documents received, wherein a plurality of linked objects representing the entities with linked logical structures and associated content are stored on a storage device.
7. The method claim 6, further comprising: receiving a query comprising a candidate assertion associated with a candidate topic; searching by traversing the plurality of linked objects for the candidate assertion; and returning one or more documents resulting from the searching.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising labeling the logical structures.
9. A computer readable storage medium storing a program of instructions executable by a machine to perform a method comprising: receiving a document; extracting logical structures and entities from the document by parsing the document; for an entity in the extracted entities, creating an object representing the entity, the creating the object comprising allocating a memory to store the object representing the entity; determining an assertion made in the document associated with the entity; linking the assertion to the object representing the entity; identifying a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion; and linking the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity.
10. The computer readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the creating of an object representing the entity, the determining of an assertion made in the document associated with the entity, the linking of the assertion to the object representing the entity, the identifying of a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion, and the linking of the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity, are performed for each of the extracted entities, wherein objects representing the extracted entities are linked based on a predefined dictionary of terms.
11. The computer readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the entities are extracted based on a predefined dictionary of terms associated with a domain of the received document.
12. The computer readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the linking the assertion to the object representing the entity comprises creating an in-memory object representing the assertion and linking the in-memory object representing the assertion to the object representing the entity.
13. The computer readable storage medium claim 11, wherein the linking the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity comprises creating an in-memory object representing the logical structure and an in-memory object representing the content of the logical structure, and linking the in-memory object representing the logical structure and the in-memory object representing the content of the logical structure with the object representing the entity.
14. The computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the method is repeated for a plurality of documents received, wherein a plurality of linked objects representing the entities with linked logical structures and associated content are stored on a storage device.
15. The computer readable storage medium claim 14, further comprising: receiving a query comprising a candidate assertion associated with a candidate topic; searching by traversing the plurality of linked objects for the candidate assertion; and returning one or more documents resulting from the searching.
16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 11, further comprising labeling the logical structures.
17. A system comprising: a hardware processor coupled with a memory device, the hardware processor configured to: receive a document; extract logical structures and entities from the document by parsing the document; for an entity in the extracted entities, create an object representing the entity, the creating the object comprising allocating a memory to store the object representing the entity; determine an assertion made in the document associated with the entity; link the assertion to the object representing the entity; identify a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion; and link the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the hardware is configured to repeat creating of an object representing the entity, determining of an assertion made in the document associated with the entity, the linking of the assertion to the object representing the entity, identifying of a logical structure from the extracted logical structures and a content of the logical structure containing the assertion, and linking of the logical structure and the content of the logical structure to the object representing the entity, for each of the extracted entities, wherein objects representing the extracted entities are linked based on a predefined dictionary of terms.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the entities are extracted based on a predefined dictionary of terms associated with a domain of the received document.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the hardware processor links the assertion to the object representing the entity by creating an in-memory object representing the assertion and linking the in-memory object representing the assertion to the object representing the entity.
</claims>
</document>
