<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAGHUNATH SATISH
CHANDRAYANA, KARTIKEYA
GAL, SHAULI
GANAPATHI, TEJASWINI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66329114
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SIMULTANEOUS OPTIMIZATION OF MULTIPLE TCP PARAMETERS TO IMPROVE DOWNLOAD OUTCOMES FOR NETWORK-BASED MOBILE APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Network traffic data associated with data requests to computer applications based on static policies is collected. An optimization order is established among network parameters. A first network parameter of a higher rank in the optimization order is estimated based on the collected network traffic data before one or more other network parameters of lower ranks are estimated. Optimal values for the other network parameters are estimated based at least in part on the estimated first optimal value for the first network parameter. The estimated first optimal value of the first network parameter and the estimated optimal values for the other network parameters are propagated to be used by user devices to make new data requests to the computer applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: collecting network traffic data associated with a plurality of data requests to one or more computer applications; converting the network traffic data into a plurality of matrix rows of a data matrix, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows stores a set of values for a set of data request related fields, a set of network parameter values for a set of network parameters, and a traffic share, wherein the traffic share is generated based on data requests, among the plurality of data requests, that share the set of values for the set of data request related fields and the set of network parameter values for the set of network parameters; applying a plurality of different machine learning algorithms to estimate a plurality of optimal values for a network parameter, wherein each machine learning algorithm in the plurality of different machine learning algorithms is performed with a machine learner trained by the plurality of matrix rows of the data matrix; aggregating the plurality of optimal values estimated for the network parameter into an aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter; propagating the aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter to be used by one or more user devices to make one or more new data requests to the one or more computer applications.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows indicates a performance improvement over a baseline performance using a default parameter value for the network parameter.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of different machine learning algorithms comprises a machine learning algorithm relating to one of: logistic regression, decision trees, support vector machines, or random forests.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter represents a value in one of: a finite set of values in an integer space, an entire integer space comprising all available integers of a given bit depth, or a relatively large range of values in the entire integer space.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the network parameter represents one of: a total number of concurrent connections, one or more timeouts, a maximum number of bytes to be transmitted at a time, or another network parameter.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter is generated by a machine learner based on a generative model that relates the network parameter to one or more download outcomes.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein a posteriori probability estimated for a network strategy including the network parameter with an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values exceeds a minimum posteriori probability threshold.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a set of computer instructions which, when executed by one or more computer processors, causes the one or more computer processors to perform: collecting network traffic data associated with a plurality of data requests to one or more computer applications; converting the network traffic data into a plurality of matrix rows of a data matrix, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows stores a set of values for a set of data request related fields, a set of network parameter values for a set of network parameters, and a traffic share, wherein the traffic share is generated based on data requests, among the plurality of data requests, that share the set of values for the set of data request related fields and the set of network parameter values for the set of network parameters; applying a plurality of different machine learning algorithms to estimate a plurality of optimal values for a network parameter, wherein each machine learning algorithm in the plurality of different machine learning algorithms is performed with a machine learner trained by the plurality of matrix rows of the data matrix; aggregating the plurality of optimal values estimated for the network parameter into an aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter; propagating the aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter to be used by one or more user devices to make one or more new data requests to the one or more computer applications.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows indicates a performance improvement over a baseline performance using a default parameter value for the network parameter.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein the plurality of different machine learning algorithms comprises a machine learning algorithm relating to one of: logistic regression, decision trees, support vector machines, or random forests.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter represents a value in one of: a finite set of values in an integer space, an entire integer space comprising all available integers of a given bit depth, or a relatively large range of values in the entire integer space.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein the network parameter represents one of: a total number of concurrent connections, one or more timeouts, a maximum number of bytes to be transmitted at a time, or another network parameter.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter is generated by a machine learner based on a generative model that relates the network parameter to one or more download outcomes.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium as recited in claim 8, wherein a posteriori probability estimated for a network strategy including the network parameter with an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values exceeds a minimum posteriori probability threshold.
15. An apparatus, comprising: one or more computing processors; one or more non-transitory computer readable media storing a program of instructions that is executable by a test master implemented with the one or more computing processors to perform: collecting network traffic data associated with a plurality of data requests to one or more computer applications; converting the network traffic data into a plurality of matrix rows of a data matrix, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows stores a set of values for a set of data request related fields, a set of network parameter values for a set of network parameters, and a traffic share, wherein the traffic share is generated based on data requests, among the plurality of data requests, that share the set of values for the set of data request related fields and the set of network parameter values for the set of network parameters; applying a plurality of different machine learning algorithms to estimate a plurality of optimal values for a network parameter, wherein each machine learning algorithm in the plurality of different machine learning algorithms is performed with a machine learner trained by the plurality of matrix rows of the data matrix; aggregating the plurality of optimal values estimated for the network parameter into an aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter; propagating the aggregated estimated optimal value for the network parameter to be used by one or more user devices to make one or more new data requests to the one or more computer applications.
16. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein each matrix row in the plurality of matrix rows indicates a performance improvement over a baseline performance using a default parameter values for the network parameter.
17. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein the plurality of different machine learning algorithms comprises a machine learning algorithm relating to one of: logistic regression, decision trees, support vector machines, or random forests.
18. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter represents a value in one of: a finite set of values in an integer space, an entire integer space comprising all available integers of a given bit depth, or a relatively large range of values in the entire integer space.
19. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein the network parameter represents one of: a total number of concurrent connections, one or more timeouts, a maximum number of bytes to be transmitted at a time, or another network parameter.
20. The apparatus as recited in claim 15, wherein an optimal value in the plurality of optimal values for the network parameter is generated by a machine learner based on a generative model that relates the network parameter to one or more download outcomes.
</claims>
</document>
