<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0464,A61N1/39
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABEYRATNE, ATHULA I
BROWN, MARK L.
HADDAD, TAREK D
MUSGROVE, DONALD R
RADTKE, ANDREW
TASGAONKAR, MUGDHA V
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68296860
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTI-TIER PREDICTION OF CARDIAC TACHYARRYTHMIA
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for a multi-tier system for predicting cardiac arrhythmia in a patient. In one example, a computing device processes parametric patient data and provider data for a patient to generate a long-term probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a first time period. In response to determining that the cardiac arrhythmia is likely to occur within the first time period, the computing device causes a medical device to process the parametric patient data to generate a short-term probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a second time period. In response to determining that the cardiac arrhythmia is likely to occur within the second time period, the medical device performs a remediative action to reduce the likelihood that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising processing circuitry and a storage medium, the computing device configured to: receive parametric patient data for a patient; apply a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data to generate a first probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a first time period; determine that the first probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and in response to the determination that the first probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, transmit instructions to a second device causing the second device to determine a second probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a second time period.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to receive provider data for the patient, wherein to apply the machine learning model, the computing device is configured to apply a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data and provider data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data and the provider data for the patient to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the parametric patient data includes at least one of: physiological data for the patient; an age of the patient; a gender of the patient; activity patterns of the patient; sleep patterns of the patient; gait changes of the patient; device-related data for a medical device; temperature trends of the patient; or temperature trends of the medical device.
4. The computing device of claim 3, wherein the device-related data for the medical device includes at least some of: an impedance of one or more electrodes of the medical device; a selection of electrodes; a drug delivery schedule for the medical device; a history of electrical pacing therapy delivered to the patient; diagnostic data for the medical device; a detected activity level of the patient; a detected posture of the patient; a detected temperature of the patient; or a detected sleep state of the patient.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the provider data for the patient includes at least some of: a medication history of the patient; a surgical procedure history of the patient; a hospitalization history of the patient; a potassium level of the patient; or one or more lab test results for the patient.
6. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first time period is greater than about 1 day and the second time period is less than about 1 day.
7. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the computing device is further configured to: after transmitting the instructions to the second device, receive, from the at least one of the second device, feedback indicating whether the cardiac arrhythmia occurred in the patient within the first time period; and update the machine learning model with the feedback indicating whether the cardiac arrhythmia occurred in the patient within the first time period.
8. A device configured to: collect, via one or more of a plurality of electrodes or sensors, parametric patient data for a patient; receive instructions from a computing device to generate a probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a time period; in response to the instructions, process the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period; determine that the probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and in response to the determination that the probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, perform a remediative action to reduce the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein to process the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period, the device is configured to apply a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein to process the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period, the device is configured to: identify one or more features of a T-wave of an electrocardiogram of the parametric patient data; and apply a model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the one or more features of the T-wave comprise an amplitude of the T-wave, and wherein to apply the model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period, the device is configured to apply the model to the amplitude of the T-wave to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
12. The device of claim 10, wherein the one or more features of the T-wave comprise a frequency of the T-wave, and wherein to apply the model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period, the device is configured to apply the model to the frequency of the T-wave to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein to perform the remediative action, the device is configured to issue, to at least one of the computing device and an external device, a notification of the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein to perform the remediative action, the device is configured to deliver, to the patient, at least one of drug delivery therapy and electrical pacing therapy.
15. An external device configured to: receive instructions to generate a first probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a first time period; in response to the instructions, process parametric patient data to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period; determine that the first probability exceeds a first predetermined threshold; and in response to the determination that the first probability exceeds the first predetermined threshold, transmit instructions to a medical device causing the medical device to determine a second probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a second time period.
16. The external device of claim 15, wherein to process the parametric patient data to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period, the external device is configured to apply a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period.
17. The external device of claim 15, wherein to process the parametric patient data to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period, the external device is configured to perform feature detection of the parametric patient data to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period.
18. The external device of claim 15, wherein the external device is further configured to: receive, from at least one of the medical device or one or more sensors, the parametric patient data; and transmit, to a computing device, the received parametric patient data.
19. The external device of claim 18, wherein the external device is further configured to: determine a geographic location of the patient; and transmit the determined geographic location with the parametric patient data to the computing device.
20. The external device of claim 15, wherein the external device comprises at least one of a mobile device or a wearable electronic device.
21. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device comprising processing circuitry and a storage medium, parametric patient data for a patient; applying, by the computing device, a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data to generate a first probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a first time period; determining, by the computing device, that the first probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and in response to the determination that the first probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, transmitting, by the computing device, instructions to a second device causing the second device to determine a second probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a second time period.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising receiving, by the computing device, provider data for the patient, wherein applying the machine learning model comprises applying a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data and provider data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data and the provider data for the patient to generate the first probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the first time period.
23. The method of claim 21, further comprising: after transmitting the instructions to the second device, receiving, by the computing device and from the second device, feedback indicating whether the cardiac arrhythmia occurred in the patient within the first time period; and updating, by the computing device, the machine learning model with the feedback indicating whether the cardiac arrhythmia occurred in the patient within the first time period.
24. A method comprising: collecting, by a device, parametric patient data for a patient; receiving, by the device, instructions from a computing device to generate a probability that a cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within a time period; in response to the instructions, processing, by the device, the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period; determining, by the device, that the probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and in response to the determination that the probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, performing, by the device, a remediative action to reduce the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein processing the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period comprises applying a machine learning model, trained using parametric patient data for a plurality of patients, to the parametric patient data to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein processing the parametric patient data to generate the probability comprises: identifying one or more features of a T-wave of an electrocardiogram of the parametric patient data; and applying a model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the one or more features of the T-wave comprise an amplitude of the T-wave, and wherein applying the model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period comprises applying the model to the amplitude of the T-wave to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the one or more features of the T-wave comprise a frequency of the T-wave, and wherein applying the model to the one or more features to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period comprises applying the model to the frequency of the T-wave to generate the probability that the cardiac arrhythmia will occur in the patient within the time period.
</claims>
</document>
