<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOUMET, JEAN-MARC
MCCANN, BRYAN
MACHADO, MICHAEL
XUE, YUFAN
ZHU, LINWEI
HARINATH, SHASHANK
RAMACHANDRAN, GOVARDANA SACHITHANANDAM
SHARMA, ABHISHEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69774496
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Named Entity Recognition
</title>

<abstract>
A method for natural language processing includes receiving, by one or more processors, an unstructured text input. An entity classifier is used to identify entities in the unstructured text input. The identifying the entities includes generating, using a plurality of sub-classifiers of a hierarchical neural network classifier of the entity classifier, a plurality of lower-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input. The identifying the entities further includes generating, using a combiner of the hierarchical neural network classifier, a plurality of higher-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input based on the plurality of lower-level entity identifications. Identified entities are provided based on the plurality of higher-level entity identifications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for natural language processing, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, an unstructured text input; identifying, using an entity classifier, entities in the unstructured text input, wherein the identifying the entities includes: generating, using a plurality of sub-classifiers of a hierarchical neural network classifier of the entity classifier, a plurality of lower-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input; and generating, using a combiner of the hierarchical neural network classifier, one or more higher-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input based on the plurality of lower-level entity identifications; and providing identified entities based on the one or more higher-level entity identifications.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating a data store based on the identified entities.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each identified entity includes a type of an entity, a value of the entity, and a confidence level in the identification.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein a type of the entity is selected from a group consisting of an organization, a person, a date, a time, a percentage, a monetary value, and a pick list type.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sub-classifiers are automatically determined using a confusion matrix.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, using a base neural network classifier of the entity classifier, context information associated with the unstructured text input; and generating, using the plurality of sub-classifiers of the hierarchical neural network classifier, the plurality of lower-level entity identifications based on the context information.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the method further comprises: performing a global training process on the base neural network classifier, for a plurality of users, using a global training dataset; and performing a custom training process on the hierarchical neural network classifier, for a first user of the plurality of users, using a custom training dataset associated with the first user.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein a size of the global training dataset is greater than a size of the custom training dataset.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the base neural network classifier includes a base neural network model; and wherein each sub-classifier of the hierarchical classifier includes a custom neural network model.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein each of the base and custom neural network models includes a bidirectional recurrent neural network (BRNN) model.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the base neural network model and custom neural network model are implemented with different types of neural network models.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, using a deterministic model, one or more of deterministic entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input; and generating the identified entities using the one or more higher-level entity identifications and one or more deterministic entity identifications.
13. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising executable code which when executed by one or more processors associated with a computing device are adapted to cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: receiving an unstructured text input; identifying, using an entity classifier, entities in the unstructured text input, wherein the identifying the entities includes: generating, using a plurality of sub-classifiers of a hierarchical neural network classifier of the entity classifier, a plurality of lower-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input; and generating, using a combiner of the hierarchical neural network classifier, one or more higher-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input based on the plurality of lower-level entity identifications; and providing identified entities based on the one or more higher-level entity identifications.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein each identified entity includes a type of an entity, a value of the entity, and a confidence level in the identification.
15. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: providing, using a base neural network classifier of the entity classifier, context information associated with the unstructured text input; and generating, using the plurality of sub-classifiers of the hierarchical neural network classifier, the plurality of lower-level entity identifications based on the context information.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: performing a global training process on the base neural network classifier, for a plurality of users, using a global training dataset; and performing a custom training process on the hierarchical neural network classifier, for a first user of the plurality of users, using a custom training dataset associated with the first user.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: providing, using a deterministic model, one or more deterministic entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input; and generating the identified entities based on the one or more higher-level entity identifications and one or more deterministic entity identifications.
18. A computing device comprising: a memory; and one or more processors coupled to the memory; wherein the one or more processors are configured to: identifying, using an entity classifier, entities in the unstructured text input, wherein the identifying the entities includes: generating, using a plurality of sub-classifiers of a hierarchical neural network classifier of the entity classifier, a plurality of lower-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input; and generating, using a combiner of the hierarchical neural network classifier, one or more higher-level entity identifications associated with the unstructured text input based on the plurality of lower-level entity identifications; and providing identified entities based on the one or more higher-level entity identifications.
19. The computing device of claim 18, wherein each identified entity includes a type of an entity, a value of the entity, and a confidence level in the identification.
20. The computing device of claim 19, wherein a type of the entity is selected from a group consisting of an organization, a person, a date, a time, a percentage, a monetary value, and a pick list type.
</claims>
</document>
