<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6886
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZHOU, TONG
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU, TONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73457704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMMUNE INDEX METHODS FOR PREDICTING BREAST CANCER OUTCOME
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are methods for diagnosing and predicting the outcome of a breast cancer patient or related cancers. The methods include determining expression levels of a plurality of biomarkers (selected genes) related to immune function in a biological sample, such as tumor tissues or a body fluid such as blood, from the patient. The expression levels of the biomarkers are used to derive an index which can be used as an indicator predictive of cancer patient outcome. Overexpression of a plurality of biomarkers of the invention can be used to generate a score or value which has been demonstrated herein to be indicative of a good or better patient outcome. The index, generated by the methods of the invention can also be used to stratify cancer subtypes, and also can be combined with conventional clinical parameters to better inform clinical decisions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for evaluating the prognosis of a cancer patient, comprising (a) determining expression levels of at least six biomarkers selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A (SEQ ID NOs: 1-17) in a biological sample co from said patient, (b) normalizing the expression levels from step (a) against the expression levels of RNA transcripts or their expression products in said sample, or comparing the expression levels from step (a) with a reference set of expression levels for the biomarkers derived from healthy individuals; wherein expression of said biomarkers in a higher amount (overexpression) from step (a) is an indicator of prognosis.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a good or better prognosis.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein absence of overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a bad or worse prognosis.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein measuring gene expression of said biomarkers includes performing nucleic acid hybridization, quantitative RT-PCR, NGS, immunohistochemistry or any other techniques.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said method for evaluating the prognosis of a breast cancer patient further comprises assessment of clinical information.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said clinical information comprises tumor size, tumor grade, lymph node status, and family history.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein said method is used to develop a treatment strategy for said breast cancer patient.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said method for evaluating the prognosis of a breast cancer patient is coupled with analysis of other biomarker such as ER, PR, or Her-2 expression levels and other diagnosis tests.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said method for evaluating the prognosis of a breast cancer patient is independent of estrogen receptor status of said patient.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said method is used to evaluate the prognosis of an estrogen receptor-positive or an estrogen receptor-negative breast cancer patient.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said RNA is isolated from a fixed, paraffin-embedded sample comprising one or more than one cancer cells from said patient.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said RNA is isolated from core biopsy tissue or fine needle aspirate cells comprising one or more than one cancer cell from said patient.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the levels of expression are converted into an immuno index, and the immune index is an indicator for prognosis.
14. A method for evaluating the prognosis of a cancer patient, comprising determining the expression levels of the RNA transcripts of at least six biomarkers selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A (SeQ ID NOs: 1-17) in a biological sample from said patient, normalized against the expression levels of all RNA transcripts in said sample, wherein overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a good or better prognosis as compared to absence of overexpression in a cancer patient.
15. A method for evaluating the prognosis of a breast cancer patient, comprising determining the expression levels from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A in a sample comprising one or more than one cancer cell from said patient, normalized against the expression levels of a reference set of RNA transcripts in said sample, wherein overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a good or better prognosis, thereby evaluating the prognosis of said breast cancer patient.
16. A method for predicting a response of a breast cancer patient to a selected treatment, comprising determining the expression levels of the RNA transcripts or their expression products of at least six biomarkers selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A (SEQ ID NOs: 1-17) in a sample comprising a cancer cell from said patient, normalized against the expression levels of all RNA transcripts or their expression products in said sample, or of a reference set of RNA transcripts or their expression products in said sample, wherein overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a positive treatment response.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein said treatment comprises gene therapy or immunotherapy.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein said immunotherapy comprises a monoclonal antibody.
19. A method for evaluating the prognosis of a breast cancer patient, comprising detecting expression of at least six biomarkers selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A (SEQ ID NOs:1-17) in a sample from said patient, wherein overexpression of said biomarkers is indicative of a good or better prognosis.
20. A kit comprising of nucleic acid probes for at least 6 of the immune-related genes selected from the group consisting of APOBEC3G, CCL5, CCR2, CD2, CD27, CD3D, CD52, CORO1A, CXCL9, GZMA, GZMK, HLA-DMA, IL2RG, LCK, PRKCB, PTPRC, SH2D1A (see SEQ ID NOs: 18-34 as examples, not limited to those listed probes).
</claims>
</document>
