<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F16/9035,G06F16/906,G06F16/907,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIRMAN, ILYA
HUANG, YAN
RAO, NIKHIL
Lin, Owen
Iyer, Anil
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEBUGGING APPLICATIONS FOR DELIVERY VIA AN APPLICATION DELIVERY SERVER
</title>

<abstract>
Analyzing or debugging applications is provided. The system identifies an action for an application provided by a developer. The system determines a first classification score based on historical execution of the action. The system generates a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application. The system determines a second classification score based on a comparison of the action with the machine generated action. The system selects, via a matching program, a second application that matches the application. The system determines a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for the second application with the action provided by the application developer. The system updates a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score. The system controls delivery of the application based on the delivery control parameter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A system to debug applications for delivery via an application delivery server, comprising: a data processing system comprising one or more processors and memory to: identify, for an application submitted by an application developer, an action associated with the application, the action used to provide a digital component object responsive to a user query, the digital component object configured for rendering by a client computing device; determine a first classification score based on historical execution of the action; generate a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application; determine a second classification score based on a comparison of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer with the machine generated action; determine a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for a second application that matches the application with the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer; update a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and control, responsive to the delivery control parameter updated by the data processing system, delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
22. The system of claim 21, comprising the digital component object configured for rendering as audio output from the client computing device.
23. The system of claim 21, comprising: the data processing system to provide the digital object component to the client computing device for rendering by the client computing device.
24. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: select, via a matching program, a second application that matches the application.
25. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: receive the application from an application developer device; and receive a data file associated with the application comprising a plurality of actions established by the application developer for the application.
26. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: receive an indication that the application is a new application uploaded by the application developer for delivery by the application delivery server; and trigger, responsive to the indication of the new application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
27. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: receive an indication that the application is an updated version of the application uploaded by the application developer for delivery by the application delivery server; and trigger, responsive to the indication of the updated version of the application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
28. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: receive an indication of negative feedback for the application from a client computing device on which the application is installed; and trigger, responsive to the indication of the negative feedback for the application, a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score.
29. The system of claim 21, comprising: the data processing system to determine to trigger a debugging process comprising determination of the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score prior to delivery of the application for installation.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein: the first classification score indicates whether an action corresponding to the application is satisfied based on a comparison of the first classification score with a threshold.
31. The system of claim 21, comprising: the data processing system to determine that the application matches the second application based on a similarity score between the application and the second application greater than a similarity threshold.
32. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: determine to authorize delivery of the application based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and update the delivery control parameter to cause delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
33. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: determine a classification failure based on at least one of the first classification score, the second classification score or the third classification score being less than a failure threshold; and update, responsive to the classification failure, the delivery control parameter to block delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
34. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: determine a classification failure based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and request, responsive to the classification failure, an updated version of the application from the application developer.
35. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: determine, for the action of the messaging object, a classification failure based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; disable, responsive to the classification failure, the action of the messaging object for execution via the application; and authorize the application for delivery by the application delivery server.
36. The system of claim 21, comprising the data processing system to: identify a plurality of digital surfaces for execution of the action of the messaging object of the application; and update the delivery control parameter to disable execution of the action of the messaging object of the application on a digital surface of the plurality of digital surfaces.
37. A method of debugging applications for delivery via an application delivery server, comprising: identifying, by a data processing system comprising one or more processors and memory, for an application submitted by an application developer, an action associated with the application, the action used to provide a digital component object responsive to a user query, the digital component object configured for rendering by a client computing device; determining, by the data processing system, a first classification score based on historical execution of the action; generating, by the data processing system, a machine generated action for the application based on metadata associated with the application; determining, by the data processing system, a second classification score based on a comparison of the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer with the machine generated action; determining, by the data processing system, a third classification score based on a comparison of an action approved for a second application with the action of the messaging object provided by the application developer; updating, by the data processing system, a delivery control parameter based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and controlling, by the data processing system responsive to the delivery control parameter updated by the data processing system, delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
38. The method of claim 37, comprising: receiving, by the data processing system, the application from an application developer device; and receiving, by the data processing system, a data file associated with the application comprising a plurality of actions established by the application developer for the application.
39. The method of claim 37, comprising: determining to authorize delivery of the application based on the first classification score, the second classification score and the third classification score; and updating the delivery control parameter to cause delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
40. The method of claim 37, comprising: determining a classification failure based on at least one of the first classification score, the second classification score or the third classification score being less than a failure threshold; and updating, responsive to the classification failure, the delivery control parameter to block delivery of the application by the application delivery server.
</claims>
</document>
