<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, CHEOLSEUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68771292
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CONTROLLING VEHICLE TO PREVENT ACCIDENT
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method for controlling a vehicle. The method for controlling a vehicle in a computing device includes acquiring driving information and sensing information from the vehicle driving in a specific section, identifying a correspondence relationship between history information associated with a past accident cause for at least one other vehicle having driven in the specific section and the acquired information, and generating a control signal for controlling the vehicle based on the identified correspondence relationship. At least one of an autonomous vehicle, a user terminal, and a server may be connected with an artificial intelligence (AI) module, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, a device associated with a 5G service, and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a vehicle in a computing device, the method comprising: acquiring driving information and sensing information from the vehicle driving in a specific section; identifying a correspondence relationship between history information associated with a past accident cause for at least one other vehicle having driven in the specific section and the acquired information; and generating a control signal for controlling the vehicle based on the identified correspondence relationship.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the past accident cause comprises at least one of the following: arrangement information of vehicles associated with a past accident, road state information of the specific section associated with the past accident, environment information associated with the past accident, and driving information of the at least one other vehicle associated with the past accident.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein: the identifying of the correspondence relationship comprises identifying a virtual collision route for the vehicle based on the acquired information and the history information, and the control signal comprises control information for controlling the vehicle to drive in accordance with a defensive driving maneuver or alternative route to avoid an accident predicted to occur in the virtual collision route.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein: the control information associated with the defensive driving maneuver or alternative route is determined in consideration of information on a visible region and information on a non-visible region, and the information on the visible region is determined in consideration of the driving information and the sensing information acquired from the vehicle, and the information on the non-visible region is determined in consideration of driving information and sensing information acquired from an adjacent vehicle driving in the specific section.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the virtual collision route is a route in which an accident is predicted to occur when the vehicle drives along the route, and the virtual collision route is determined by a combination of information included in the past accident cause in consideration of the correspondence relationship of the acquired driving information and the acquired sensing information to the past accident cause.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising, when at least one control signal is generated, determining a control signal in consideration of an accident occurrence probability corresponding to each of the at least one control signal, wherein the accident predicted probability comprises a probability that an accident predicted to occur when the vehicle is controlled in accordance with the generated control signal.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising, when the accident occurrence probability does not satisfy a predetermined criterion, controlling the at least one other vehicle driving in the specific section and re-determining the control signal in consideration of a changed situation.
8. A method for controlling a vehicle in a computing device, the method comprising: acquiring driving information and sensing information from the vehicle in a specific section; receiving a control signal generated based on a correspondence relationship between history information associated with a past accident cause for at least one other vehicle having driven in the specific section and the acquired information; and driving in accordance with the control signal.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the past accident cause comprises at least one of the following: arrangement information of vehicles associated with a past accident, road state information of the specific section associated with the past accident, environment information associated with the past accident, and driving information of the at least one other vehicle associated with the past accident, and the control signal comprises control information for controlling the vehicle to drive in accordance with a defensive driving maneuver or alternative route to avoid an accident predicted to occur in a virtual collision route.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the control information associated with the defensive driving maneuver or alternative route is determined in consideration of information on a visible region and information on a non-visible region, and the information on the visible region is determined in consideration of the driving information and the sensing information acquired from the vehicle, and the information on the non-visible region may be determined in consideration of driving information and sensing information acquired from an adjacent vehicle driving in the specific section.
11. A server comprising: a communicator configured to receive driving information and sensing information from a vehicle driving in a specific section; and a processor configured to generate a control signal for controlling the vehicle based on a correspondence relationship between history information associated with a past accident cause for at least one other vehicle having driven in the specific section and the received information.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the past accident cause comprises at least one of the following: arrangement information of vehicles associated with a past accident, road state information of the specific section associated with the past accident, environment information associated with the past accident, and driving information of the at least one other vehicle associated with the past accident.
13. The server of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: identify a virtual collision route for the vehicle based on the received information and the history information; and generate a control signal including control information for controlling the vehicle to drive I accordance with a defensive driving maneuver or alternative route to avoid an accident predicted to occur in the virtual collision route.
14. The server of claim 13, wherein: the control information associated with the defensive driving maneuver or alternative route is determined in consideration of information on a visible region and information on a non-visible region, and the information on the visible region is determined in consideration of the driving information and the sensing information acquired from the vehicle, and the information on the non-visible region is determined in consideration of driving information and sensing information acquired from an adjacent vehicle driving in the specific section.
15. The server of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the virtual collision route by a combination of information included in the past accident cause, the virtual collision route in which an accident is predicted to occur when the vehicle drives along the virtual collision route.
16. The server of claim 13, wherein: when at least one control signal is generated, the processor is further configured to determine a control signal in consideration of an accident occurrence probability corresponding to each of the at least one control signal; the accident occurrence probability comprises a probability of an accident predicted to occur when the vehicle is controlled in accordance with the generated control signal.
17. The server of claim 16, wherein, when the accident occurrence probability does not satisfy a predetermined criterion, the processor is further configured to control at least one other vehicle driving in the specific section and re-determine a control signal in consideration of a changed situation.
</claims>
</document>
