<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRINKLEY, II, JAMES L.
JB TEK GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRINKLEY, II, JAMES L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229316
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Streamlining Drafting Process
</title>

<abstract>
In an approach for streamlining the patent application drafting process, a processor receives information relevant to drafting a document, wherein the information includes user input about an invention to be patented and prior art related to the invention, and wherein the document includes one or more sections of a patent application. A processor receives guidelines and standards of patentability. A processor analyzes the received information. A processor determines the patentability of the invention, based on the analyzed received information. A processor generates the document for the invention, based on a learned behavior. A processor sends the generated document to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, information relevant to drafting a document, wherein the information includes user input about an invention to be patented and prior art related to the invention, and wherein the document includes one or more sections of a patent application; receiving, by one or more processors, guidelines and standards of patentability; analyzing, by one or more processors, the received information; determining, by one or more processors, the patentability of the invention, based on the analyzed received information, wherein determining the patentability of the invention comprises: comparing, by one or more processors, the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; generating, by one or more processors, the document for the invention, based on a learned behavior; and sending, by one or more processors, the generated document to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the received information comprises: learning, by one or more processors, over a predetermined period of time through ontologies, information retrieval, natural language processing (NLP), natural language understanding and generation, speech recognition, machine learning, cognition, and artificial intelligence.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the received information comprises: learning, by one or more processors, a writing style of the user, wherein the writing style includes how the user drafted one or more previous patent applications.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the received information comprises: crawling, by one or more processors, through the received information to place the received information in categories for to assist in drafting a patent application.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the patentability of the invention comprises: assigning, by one or more processors, a scaled score to the invention within a predetermined scale, based on the comparison of the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; comparing, by one or more processors, the scaled score to a predetermined threshold score for patentability, wherein a scaled score equal to or above the predetermined threshold score of patentability signifies patentability of the invention; and determining, by one or more processors, the patentability of the invention, based on the scaled score.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, the invention is not patentable; alerting, by one or more processors, the user that the invention is not patentable; suggesting, by one or more processors, to the user, amendments to the invention to make the invention patentable; and changing, by one or more processors, the invention, using the suggested amendments to make the invention patentable.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the generated document to the user comprises: receiving, by one or more processors, an approval from the user to send the generated document to an examining agency; and sending, by one or more processors, the generated document directly to the examining agency.
8. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive information relevant to drafting a document, wherein the information includes user input about an invention to be patented and prior art related to the invention, and wherein the document includes one or more sections of a patent application; program instructions to receive guidelines and standards of patentability; program instructions to analyze the received information; program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention, based on the analyzed received information, wherein program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention comprise: program instructions to compare the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; program instructions to generate the document for the invention, based on a learned behavior; and program instructions to send the generated document to the user.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to learn over a predetermined period of time through ontologies, information retrieval, natural language processing (NLP), natural language understanding and generation, speech recognition, machine learning, cognition, and artificial intelligence.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to learn a writing style of the user, wherein the writing style includes how the user drafted one or more previous patent applications.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to crawl through the received information to place the received information in categories for to assist in drafting a patent application.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention comprise: program instructions to assign a scaled score to the invention within a predetermined scale, based on the comparison of the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; program instructions to compare the scaled score to a predetermined threshold score for patentability, wherein a scaled score equal to or above the predetermined threshold score of patentability signifies patentability of the invention; and program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention, based on the scaled score.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising: program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to determine the invention is not patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to alert the user that the invention is not patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to suggest, to the user, amendments to the invention to make the invention patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to change the invention, using the suggested amendments to make the invention patentable.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to send the generated document to the user comprise: program instructions to receive an approval from the user to send the generated document to an examining agency; and program instructions to send the generated document directly to the examining agency.
15. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors, one or more computer readable storage media, and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive information relevant to drafting a document, wherein the information includes user input about an invention to be patented and prior art related to the invention, and wherein the document includes one or more sections of a patent application; program instructions to receive guidelines and standards of patentability; program instructions to analyze the received information; program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention, based on the analyzed received information, wherein program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention comprise: program instructions to compare the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; program instructions to generate the document for the invention, based on a learned behavior; and program instructions to send the generated document to the user.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to learn over a predetermined period of time through ontologies, information retrieval, natural language processing (NLP), natural language understanding and generation, speech recognition, machine learning, cognition, and artificial intelligence.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to learn a writing style of the user, wherein the writing style includes how the user drafted one or more previous patent applications.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to analyze the received information comprise: program instructions to crawl through the received information to place the received information in categories for to assist in drafting a patent application.
19. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention comprise: program instructions to assign a scaled score to the invention within a predetermined scale, based on the comparison of the analysis of the received information to the received guidelines and standards of patentability and to the prior art related to the invention; program instructions to compare the scaled score to a predetermined threshold score for patentability, wherein a scaled score equal to or above the predetermined threshold score of patentability signifies patentability of the invention; and program instructions to determine the patentability of the invention, based on the scaled score.
20. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to determine the invention is not patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to alert the user that the invention is not patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to suggest, to the user, amendments to the invention to make the invention patentable; program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to change the invention, using the suggested amendments to make the invention patentable.
</claims>
</document>
