<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F16/2455,G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHORAL SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARES, JEAN-MICHEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608887
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA ANALYSIS AND VISUALIZATION USING STRUCTURED DATA TABLES AND NODAL NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed methods and systems describe an analytics server that generates an inter-related nodal data structure. The analytics server receives an electronic template having a set of input fields, the electronic template identifying at least a portion of data stored within a database and its corresponding domain data table and a display attribute, the electronic template further identifying a database storing the data; retrieves the data from the database; parses the data into a set of unique domain data tables having a first criterion and a set of unique dimension tables having a second criterion; generates a nodal network comprising a set of nodes where each node represents at least a portion of the retrieved data, each node having metadata comprising a unique identifier corresponding to a unique domain table and a unique dimension table corresponding to data associated with each node; links one or more nodes based their respective metadata.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method navigating structured and unstructured data using a relational computer model, the method comprising: receiving, by a server, an electronic template having a set of input fields, the electronic template identifying at least a portion of data stored within a database and its corresponding domain and a display attribute, the electronic template further identifying a database storing the data; parsing, by the server, the data into a set of unique domain data tables, each domain data table corresponding to the domain having a first criterion received from the electronic template; parsing, by the server, each unique data table into a set of unique dimension tables, each dimension data table corresponding to a predetermined dimension having a second criterion received from the electronic template; generating, by the server in accordance with the electronic template, a nodal network comprising a set of nodes where each node represents at least a portion of the retrieved data, each node having metadata comprising a unique identifier corresponding to a unique domain table and a unique dimension table corresponding to data associated with each node; linking, by the server, one or more nodes based their respective metadata; and upon receiving a request from a user computing device: parsing, by the server, the request to identify a node associated with the request, and displaying, by the server on a graphical user interface of the user computing device, data associated with the identified node, wherein the data is displayed in accordance with the display attribute received from the electronic template.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: initiating, by the server, an application programming interface to retrieve data from one or more databases, wherein the server revises the nodal network in accordance with data retrieved via the application programming interface.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the domain data tables correspond to a category of data, the category being selected by a user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein a number unique domain data tables is inputted by a user.
5. The method of claim 1, the server utilizes an artificial intelligence model to identify a corresponding node for unstructured data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of dimension tables are inputted by a user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the server retrieves the data by crawling or scanning the database.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic template is an excel file.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic template is generated by the server in response to receiving one or more inputs from the user computing device.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the display attribute within the electronic template identifies which category of data is displayed on the graphical user interface.
11. A computer system for navigating structured and unstructured data using a relational computer model, the system comprising: a user computing device configured to display a graphical user interface; and a server in communication with the user computing device, wherein the server is configured to: receive an electronic template having a set of input fields, the electronic template identifying at least a portion of data stored within a database and its corresponding domain and a display attribute, the electronic template further identifying a database storing the data; parse the data into a set of unique domain data tables, each domain data table corresponding to the domain having a first criterion received from the electronic template; parse each unique data table into a set of unique dimension tables, each dimension data table corresponding to a predetermined dimension having a second criterion received from the electronic template; generate, in accordance with the electronic template, a nodal network comprising a set of nodes where each node represents at least a portion of the retrieved data, each node having metadata comprising a unique identifier corresponding to a unique domain table and a unique dimension table corresponding to data associated with each node; link one or more nodes based their respective metadata; and upon receiving a request from the user computing device: parse the request to identify a node associated with the request, and display, on the graphical user interface of the user computing device, data associated with the identified node, wherein the data is displayed in accordance with the display attribute received from the electronic template.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the server is further configured to: initiate an application programming interface to retrieve data from one or more databases, wherein the server revises the nodal network in accordance with data retrieved via the application programming interface.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the domain data tables correspond to a category of data, the category being selected by a user.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein a number unique domain data tables is inputted by a user.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the server is further configured to execute an artificial intelligence model to identify a corresponding node for unstructured data.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein a number of dimension tables are inputted by a user.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the server retrieves the data by crawling or scanning the database.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the electronic template is an excel file.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the electronic template is generated by the server in response to receiving one or more inputs from the user computing device.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the display attribute within the electronic template identifies which category of data is displayed on the graphical user interface.
</claims>
</document>
