<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/34,G06Q10/06,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEW GO - ARC (2015)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARAK, DROR
ELAZARY, YORAM
GUR ARIE, HANA
HARNIK, ZVIKA
SRUR, HAIM YGAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71099746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING SMART CARDS TO REDUCE RISKS OF WORK ACCIDENTS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes methods and systems for reducing risks of work accidents in an industrial environment comprising a plurality of smart card readers each associated with a respective location in the industrial environment, caused by employees of external contractors. The methods and systems comprising: providing a plurality of smart cards; providing an employees' database comprising data associated with the plurality of employees of the external contractors; obtaining information from a smart card reader, where the information is indicative of a presence of a specific employee at a specific area; retrieving data stored in the employees' database that relates to the specific employee; retrieving data stored in a task database relating to at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment; and taking one or more safety related decisions based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for reducing risks of work accidents in an industrial environment comprising one or more smart card readers associated with different locations of said industrial environment, the method comprising: providing a plurality smart cards, wherein each of at least some of the smart cards are associated with a respective employee of at least one external contractor; providing an employees' database comprising data associated with a plurality of employees of the at least one external contractor; obtaining information from a smart card reader, the information is indicative of a presence of a specific employee of said at least one external contractor at a specific area of the industrial environment; retrieving data stored in the employees' database which relates to the specific employee; retrieving data stored in a task database relating to at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment; and taking one or more safety related decisions based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality smart cards are linked to an on-line information system which is configured to store data associated with the one or more employees of the at least one external contractor.
3. The method of claim 3, wherein said employees' database further includes emergency data associated with employees of the external contractors, who are currently working at said industrial environment.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprises a step of monitoring all entrances and exits of all employees of the at least one external contractor.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more safety related decisions are taken based on real time and/or near real time data about at least one task that is currently taking place in a specific area of the industrial environment or is scheduled to take place in a specific area of the industrial environment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said one or more safety related decisions are taken based on data relating to at least one task that took place in the specific area of the industrial environment.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of associating a risk score with a specific employee of said at least one external contractor who is present at the specific area of the industrial environment.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein associating the risk score with the specific employee who is currently present at the specific area of the industrial environment, is based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the steps of: comparing the risk score associated with the specific employee who is currently present at the specific area of the industrial environment to a pre-defined threshold; initiating a safety related action when the risk score is greater than the pre-defined threshold; and forgoing initiating safety related action when the risk score is less than the pre-defined threshold.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of determining a risk score for the at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising a step of updating the risk score for the at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising the steps of: comparing the updated risk score for the at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment to a pre-defined threshold; initiating a safety related action when the risk score is greater than the pre-defined threshold; and forgoing initiating safety related action when the risk score is less than the pre-defined threshold.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of determining, based on retrieved data, whether a certain employee is authorized to access a pre-defined location within said industrial environment.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of determining, based on retrieved data, whether a certain employee remains at the specific area of the industrial environment for more than a pre-define period of time.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein said plurality smart cards is a member of a group that consists of a virtual card implemented in a communication device, a physical card provided with Near Field Communication (NFC) capabilities.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising a step of assessing the external contractor's level of safety awareness, based on information retrieved directly or indirectly from smart cards associated with all employees of said external contractor.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform a method for reducing risks of work accidents in an industrial environment comprising one or more smart card readers each associated with a respective location of said industrial environment, caused by one or more employees of at least one external contractor each associated with a respective smart card, the method comprising: providing an employees' database comprising data associated with a plurality of employees of the at least one external contractor; obtaining information from a smart card reader, the information is indicative of a presence of a specific employee of said at least one external contractor at a specific area of the industrial environment; retrieving data stored in the employees' database which relates to the specific employee; retrieving data stored in a task database relating to at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment; and taking one or more safety related decisions based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
18. A system for reducing risks of work accidents in an industrial environment caused by one or more employees of at least one external contractor, the system comprising: a plurality of plurality smart cards, each associated with a respective employee of said at least one external contractor; a plurality of smart card readers, each associated with a respective location of said industrial environment; a network interface configured to receive details of employees of said at least one external contractor that work or are scheduled to work in the industrial environment; a memory configured to store data received at said network interface at at least one employees' database; at least one processor configured to: obtain information derived from a smart card reader, the information is indicative of a presence of a specific employee of said at least one external contractor at a specific area of the industrial environment; retrieve data stored in the employees' database which relates to the specific employee; retrieve data stored in a task database relating to at least one task associated with the specific area of the industrial environment; and take one or more safety related decisions based on data retrieved from the employees' database and on data retrieved from the task database.
</claims>
</document>
