<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/35,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FMR
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, ABHISHEK
CHOPRA, ANKUSH
CHANDRAMOULI, ARAVIND
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165261
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer Systems and Methods for Efficient Query Resolution by Customer Representatives
</title>

<abstract>
A computerized method of representing customer interactions with an organization includes: receiving, by a computing device, customer web interaction data segments and customer conversation data segments; pre-processing the customer conversation data segments to remove specified types of information; scoring each of the pre-processed customer conversation data segments; pre-processing the customer web data interaction segments; extracting from the pre-processed customer web interaction data segments tokens; combining the pre-processed customer conversation data segments and the pre-processed customer web interaction data segments into a customer data set; parsing the customer data set into one or more windows; assigning, for each window, pre-trained weights to each of the tokens in each window; assigning a transaction theme to each window based on the tokens in each window; and generating, based on the transaction themes, a ranked list of topic keywords reflecting the customer web interaction data segments and customer conversation data segments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method of developing an index of questions, answers, and follow-up questions, the computerized method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a corpus of question phrases and answer phrases based on records of prior customer interactions; pre-processing, by the computing device, the question phrases to remove extraneous information, thereby generating pre-processed question phrases; extracting, by the computing device, at least one keyword from the pre-processed question phrases; indexing, by the computing device, the pre-processed question phrases in a question-answer database having fields for questions and corresponding answers; receiving, by the computing device, customer message data from one or more data sources; extracting, by the computing device, a set of customer questions asked by a customer during a computing session; determining, by the computing device, a score for each question in the question-answer database based on a likelihood of becoming a follow-up question by the customer; ranking, by the computing device, the possible follow up questions by score; and indexing, by the computing device, the questions and follow up questions in a database stored in memory in electronic communication with the computing device.
2. The computerized method of claim 1 wherein pre-processing the question search phrases includes removing at least one of punctuation, conjunctions, pause words, question signifiers, or noise words.
3. The computerized method of claim 1 wherein the at least one key word or phrase extracted is a noun phrase, unigram noun or unigram verb.
4. The computerized method of claim 1 wherein indexing further includes (i) extracting, by the computing device, key words or phrases ordered according to sequence of occurrence in the question; (ii) extracting, by the computing device, question words from the question; (iii) tokenizing, by the computing device, the extracted key words or phrases, question words and questions at word boundaries; (iv) storing, by the computing device, each type (noun phrases, unigram noun, unigram verbs, verb phrases) question word and the question in a separate fields of a record of a reverse index; and storing, by the computing device, the answer to the question in another field of record.
5. The method of claim 1 further including determining one or more predictions of follow-up questions by the customer by (i) identifying, by the computing device, questions from sentences uttered by the customer using a question detection classifier, (ii) determining, by the computing device, a presence of one or more question keywords, (iii) grouping, by the computing device, questions associated with the question keywords, and (iv) identifying, by the computing device, using a sliding window algorithm and a frequent item set algorithms, possible follow up questions for a given question and storing, by the computing device, the follow-up questions list to the question in another field of record.
6. The computerized method of claim 1 wherein determining the scores includes calculating linear combinations of features including at least one of noun phrases, verb phrases, and unigrams, the features weighted to arrive at a score.
7. A computerized method of retrieving (i) answers to questions and (ii) follow up questions, for use by a customer service representative, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a question search phrase inputted by a customer service representative; pre-processing, by the computing device, the question search phrase to remove extraneous information, thereby generating a pre-processed question or search phrase; extracting, by the computing device, at least one key word or phrase from the question search phrase; retrieving, by the computing device, an answer corresponding to the question search phrase, the answer located in an answer field of a question-answer index; retrieving, by the computing device, if no answer exists in the answer field of the question-answer index, from one or more documents corresponding to the question search phrase, relevant text passages; scoring, by the computing device, the relevant text passages based on a frequency of query keywords appearing in the relevant text passages; designating, by the computing device, the text passage having the highest score as the answer; and retrieving, by the computing device, one or more predictions of follow-up questions for a given question.
8. The method of claim 7 further including displaying, by a computing device, the predictions of follow-up questions and the set of ranked answers for the customer representative.
9. The method of claim 7 further includes a feedback loop to iteratively better define the follow-up questions that are returned, the feedback loop adjusting the weights of follow-up questions based on feedback received.
10. The method of claim 7 wherein pre-processing the question search phrase includes removing at least one of punctuation, conjunctions, pause words, question signifiers, or noise words.
11. The method of claim 7 wherein the at least one key word or phrase extracted is a noun phrase, unigram noun or unigram verb.
12. The method of claim 7 wherein retrieving an answer from the answer field includes (i) matching the question search phrase with the corresponding indexed question for an approximate match based on n-gram, (ii) skipping n-gram matching, and (iii) selecting the question that has the highest score.
13. The method of claim 7 wherein retrieving relevant text passages includes comparing an incoming query against phrase match in document title, document body, topic hierarchy, document content, and context features to match in topic hierarchy or title.
14. The method of claim 7 wherein scoring the relevant text passages based on a frequency of query keywords appearing in the relevant passage includes a sliding window algorithm.
15. The method of claim 7 wherein retrieving the predictions of follow up questions for a given question from the customer representative is performed using a matching algorithm that includes matching the question search phrase with the corresponding indexed question for an approximate match based on n-gram, skip n-gram matching and selecting the question that has the highest score.
</claims>
</document>
