<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/28,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE BOSTON CONSULTING GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE GOURSAC, AXEL
DUBOIS, RAPHAEL
ERLEBACH, JÖRG
FEHLING, RONNY
FUNCK, KARIN VON
SHORT, SAMANTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69157623
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AI-DRIVEN TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A largely automated method of categorizing spend data is provided that does not require a prior in-depth knowledge of an organization's transactional data. Natural language processing is applied to text data from transactional data to generate a consolidated cleaned data set (CDS) containing information for categorization. Logs for transactions are clustered based on similarity, forming the minimal data set (MDS). An automated algorithm selects a subset of high-value clusters that are categorized by requesting users to manually categorize one or more representative logs from each cluster of the subset. A model is then trained using the subset of manually categorized clusters and used to predict spend categories for the remaining logs with high accuracy. The AI engine automatically analyzes the predictions based on client context and either auto-tunes the machine learning model or identifies a new subset of clusters to be manually categorized. This loop may continue until 95%-100% of the spend is categorized.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for processing transaction records, comprising: receiving transaction data; generating, based on the transaction data, a cleaned data set (CDS) comprising logs for a plurality of transactions, wherein each log is associated with text, at least a portion of which has been processed using natural language processing (NLP); clustering at least a subset of the logs from the CDS based at least in part on the associated text and a similarity threshold, wherein clustering results in a set of clusters; identifying a particular subset of the set of clusters and receiving a user determination of a transaction type for a representative log for each cluster of the particular subset, wherein received transaction types are associated with each log of the respective cluster; training a prediction model using logs from the particular subset of clusters and the associated transaction types; determining, using the predictive model, transaction types for logs in the CDS not yet associated with a transaction type; and generating a transaction report, the transaction report comprising a plurality of calculated parameters determined based at least in part on the logs and their associated transaction types.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an additional subset of the set of clusters and determining, using a set of base mapping rules, transaction types to be associated with the logs of the additional subset of clusters, wherein training the prediction model further comprises training the model using the logs from the additional subset and the associated transaction types.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the particular subset of clusters comprises selecting clusters for the subset based at least in part on a transaction value associated with each cluster.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the particular subset of the set of clusters comprises selecting clusters based at least in part on a distance metric between respective clusters in the subset.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating the CDS comprises removing out-of-scope or duplicate logs.
6. A computer-implemented method for processing transaction records, comprising: receiving transaction data comprising a plurality of logs, the logs having associated text; clustering at least a subset of the logs based on the associated text and a similarity threshold, wherein clustering results in a set of clusters; receiving a user determination of a transaction type for each of a particular subset of the set of clusters, wherein received transaction types are associated with each log of the respective cluster; training a prediction model using logs from the particular subset of clusters and the associated transaction types; and predicting transaction types for additional logs using the prediction model.
7. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising identifying an additional subset of the set of clusters and determining, using a set of base mapping rules, transaction types to be associated with the logs of the additional subset of clusters, wherein training the prediction model further comprises training the model using the logs from the additional subset and the associated transaction types.
8. The computer-implemented of method of claim 6, the method further comprising: generating a cleaned data set (CDS) of logs from the transaction data, wherein generating the CDS comprises processing at least a portion of the text associated with the logs using natural language processing (NLP).
9. The computer-implemented of claim 8 wherein generating the CDS further comprises removing out-of-scope or duplicate logs from the plurality of logs.
10. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising providing for display a representative log for a cluster of the particular subset prior to receiving the respective user determination of the transaction type for the cluster.
11. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising: providing, for display, two representative logs for a cluster of the particular subset; receiving different user determinations of the transaction types for the two representative logs; and splitting the cluster based at least in part on the different user determinations for the transaction types for the two representative logs.
12. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising validating the prediction types provided by the trained prediction model using a Human-in-the-Loop method.
13. The computer-implemented of claim 6, wherein identifying the particular subset of clusters comprises selecting clusters for the subset based at least in part on a transaction value associated with each cluster.
14. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising: performing an automated quality and error analysis of the transaction types predicted by the prediction model; and modifying at least one model parameter based on the quality and error analysis.
15. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising: performing an automated quality and error analysis of the transaction types predicted by the prediction model; identifying one or more logs for manual tagging based on the quality and error analysis; and receiving a user determination of a transaction type for each of the one or more logs.
16. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising training the prediction model using the one or more logs and the associated transaction types.
17. The computer-implemented of claim 6, wherein predicting transaction types for the additional logs results in logs being associated with more than 95% of the plurality of logs.
18. The computer-implemented of claim 6, further comprising using the trained model to predict transaction types for logs from another set of transaction data
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions for processing transaction records, the instructions when executed by a processor causing the processor to: receive transaction data comprising a plurality of logs, the logs having associated text; cluster at least a subset of the logs based on the associated text and a similarity threshold, wherein clustering results in a set of clusters; receive a user determination of a transaction type for each of a particular subset of the set of clusters, wherein received transaction types are associated with each log of the respective cluster; train a prediction model using logs from the particular subset of clusters and the associated transaction types; and predict transaction types for additional logs using the prediction model.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, further comprising instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to: identify an additional subset of the set of clusters and determine, using a set of base mapping rules, transaction types to be associated with the logs of the additional subset of clusters; and train the prediction model using the logs from the additional subset and the associated transaction types.
</claims>
</document>
