<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10,G16H20/40,G16H30/20,G16H70/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING LINKING MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, GUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67301976
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Standardized Cloud Radiotherapy Planning Method, Storage Medium, and System
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to the technical field of cloud computing and relates to a standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method, a storage medium, and a system. The method comprises the following steps: (1) patient data is uploaded to a master cloud server (S210), where the patient data comprises a patient image and medical order data; (2) a target area is delineated on the basis of the patient image (S220); (3) the master cloud server assigns a computation task to a controlled computer, the controlled computer uses a standard radiotherapy equipment mode to compute a radiotherapy plan for a patient, thus generating a standard radiotherapy plan (S230); and, (4) a specific radiotherapy plan matching specific radiotherapy equipment is generated on the basis of the standard radiotherapy plan. The method provided in the present solution prevents a delay in treatment time for the patient and idling of treatment resources when a certain type of radiotherapy equipment in a hospital is malfunctioning while other radiotherapy equipment is idling, also balances differences in levels of treatment provided by physicians from different hospital campuses or regions, and also reduces work load for oncologists and medical physicist.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method suitable for execution in a standardized cloud radiotherapy planning system, characterized in comprising the following steps: (1) patient data is uploaded to a master cloud server, wherein the patient data comprises a patient image and medical order data; (2) a target area is delineated on the basis of the patient image; (3) the master cloud server decomposes a computation task and assigns it to a controlled computer, and the controlled computer uses a standard radiotherapy equipment mode to compute a radiotherapy plan for a patient to generate a standard radiotherapy plan; and (4) according to the standard radiotherapy plan, the master cloud server or the controlled computer conducts conversion to generate a specific radiotherapy plan that matches specific radiotherapy equipment.
2. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein the patient image comprises one or a combination of a CT image, a MRI image, or a PET image.
3. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein the medical order data comprise one or a combination of target radiotherapy dose, DVH curve, and radiotherapy dose constraint value of each organ.
4. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein the delineation is automatic delineation, semi-automatic delineation, or manual delineation.
5. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein said "according to the standard radiotherapy plan, the master cloud server or the controlled computer conducts conversion to generate a specific radiotherapy plan that matches specific radiotherapy equipment" further comprises: introducing the standard radiotherapy plan, and using a dose-volume histogram and isodose line in the standard radiotherapy plan as constraint conditions for optimization of the specific radiotherapy plan, and recomputing a final specific radiotherapy plan based on field parameters of the standard radiotherapy plan.
6. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 5, wherein in the step (4) the recomputing comprises one or a combination of dose computation or reverse optimization, wherein the reverse optimization comprises use of one or a combination of a direct subfield optimization method and a flux map optimization method.
7. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein a quality assurance step is also provided after the step (4), verifying through the quality assurance step before treatment of a patient whether the converted plan is correct or not; if correct, executing the specific radiotherapy plan; and if not, returning to the step (4) to regenerate a new specific radiotherapy plan according to the standard radiotherapy plan.
8. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein between the step (3) and the step (4), the method further comprises a step of selecting a radiotherapy equipment for conversion according to congestion situation of the radiotherapy equipment, where the standard radiotherapy plan is preferentially converted to a radiotherapy equipment currently idle or to a radiotherapy equipment with few task to be performed or to a radiotherapy equipment as user-defined for conversion.
9. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein, when the standard radiotherapy plan is generated or before the radiotherapy plan matching the specific radiotherapy equipment is generated through conversion, a process queue conversion is performed according to available computing resources or priority of computation tasks is set by users themselves.
10. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein said "according to the standard radiotherapy plan, the master cloud server or the controlled computer conducts conversion to generate a specific radiotherapy plan that matches specific radiotherapy equipment" further comprises the following step: comparing parameter coincidence between the standard radiotherapy equipment and the specific radiotherapy equipment to be matched, and using the standard radiotherapy plan directly as the final radiotherapy plan if the parameter coincidence meets requirement of a predetermined threshold, and if not, proceeding to the step (4).
11. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 10, wherein parameters to be compared between the standard radiotherapy equipment and the specific radiotherapy equipment to be matched comprise a source parameter and a multi-leaf collimator parameter.
12. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 11, wherein the source parameter is obtained by comparing dose measurement characteristic data of the source in a uniform or non-uniform medium; the dose measurement characteristic data is obtained by a three-dimensional dose curve; the multi-leaf collimator parameter comprises blade size and pair number, maximum open field size, and whether to allow staggering.
13. The standardized cloud radiotherapy planning method according to claim 1, wherein, in the step (4), when the standard radiotherapy plan is converted into the specific radiotherapy plan, conversion is set to generate one or more specific radiotherapy plans that respectively match one or more specific radiotherapy equipment.
14. A standardized cloud radiotherapy planning system, characterized in comprising a master cloud server, a network communication module, a client and a controlled computer, wherein, the master cloud server, the controlled computer, and the client are communicatively connected through the network communication module; the master cloud server is used to define a computation phantom, delineate a target area and define computation parameters, decompose a computation task, optimize assignment and schedule of tasks, and monitor execution of the controlled computer; the controlled computer is configured to receive a running instruction issued by the master cloud server, determine task execution, perform a computation task, and feed computation progress and computation result back; and the client is used to upload a patient image, patient data or clinical dose to the master cloud server, and view result of the radiotherapy plan.
15. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 13.
16. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 12.
17. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 4.
18. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 3.
19. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 2.
20. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, the instructions being adapted to be loaded from a memory and execute the standardized cloud radiotherapy plan method according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
