<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/25,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NAMBOODIRI, VIPIN
RAO, BOPPANA VISWESWARA
RICOH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAMBOODIRI, VIPIN
RAO, BOPPANA VISWESWARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423943
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitating Interoperability Across Health Information Systems
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method that provides an interface to facilitate interoperability between health information systems is disclosed. The method includes receiving an electronic medical record in a first data format from a first health care server, parsing one or more elements of the electronic medical record in the first data format, mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record from the first data format to an intermediate data format using a schema mapping associated with the first data format and the intermediate data format, converting the electronic medical record from the intermediate data format to a second data format of a second health care server, and transmitting the converted electronic medical record in the second data format to the second health care server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, from a first health care server, an electronic medical record in a first data format; parsing one or more elements of the electronic medical record in the first data format; mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record from the first data format to an intermediate data format using a schema mapping associated with the first data format and the intermediate data format; converting the electronic medical record from the intermediate data format to a second data format of a second health care server; and transmitting the converted electronic medical record in the second data format to the second health care server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record further comprises: determining a first system of measurement used for representing the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determining a second system of measurement used by the second health care server; and converting the first system of measurement for the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second system of measurement.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record further comprises: determining a first medical coding classification system used for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determining a second medical coding classification system used by the second health care provider; determining a code map for mapping the first medical coding classification system to the second medical coding classification system; and converting the first medical coding classification system for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second medical coding classification system using the code map.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record; generating an exception event based on the inconsistency; determining a learned dictionary; processing the exception event using the learned dictionary; and resolving the inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record based on processing the exception event using the learned dictionary.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data format is JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), the intermediate data format is extensible markup language (XML), and the second data format is health level 7 message format.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein one or more of the first system of measurement and the second system of measurement is a system of measurement from a group of metric system, imperial system, and United States customary units.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein one or more of the first medical coding classification system and the second medical coding classification system is a medical coding classification system from a group of Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED) and International Classification of Disease (ICD).
8. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory, the memory storing instructions, which when executed cause the one or more processors to: receive, from a first health care server, an electronic medical record in a first data format; parse one or more elements of the electronic medical record in the first data format; map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record from the first data format to an intermediate data format using a schema mapping associated with the first data format and the intermediate data format; convert the electronic medical record from the intermediate data format to a second data format of a second health care server; and transmit the converted electronic medical record in the second data format to the second health care server.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein to map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: determine a first system of measurement used for representing the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determine a second system of measurement used by the second health care server; and convert the first system of measurement for the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second system of measurement.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein to map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record, the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: determine a first medical coding classification system used for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determine a second medical coding classification system used by the second health care provider; determine a code map for mapping the first medical coding classification system to the second medical coding classification system; and convert the first medical coding classification system for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second medical coding classification system using the code map.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: determine an inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record; generate an exception event based on the inconsistency; determine a learned dictionary; process the exception event using the learned dictionary; and resolve the inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record based on processing the exception event using the learned dictionary.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the first data format is JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), the intermediate data format is extensible markup language (XML), and the second data format is health level 7 message format.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein one or more of the first system of measurement and the second system of measurement is a system of measurement from a group of metric system, imperial system, and United States customary units.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein one or more of the first medical coding classification system and the second medical coding classification system is a medical coding classification system from a group of Systematized Nomenclature of Medicine (SNOMED) and International Classification of Disease (ICD).
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium storing a computer readable program, wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to: receive, from a first health care server, an electronic medical record in a first data format; parse one or more elements of the electronic medical record in the first data format; map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record from the first data format to an intermediate data format using a schema mapping associated with the first data format and the intermediate data format; convert the electronic medical record from the intermediate data format to a second data format of a second health care server; and transmit the converted electronic medical record in the second data format to the second health care server.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein to map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record, the computer readable program when executed on the computer further causes the computer to: determine a first system of measurement used for representing the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determine a second system of measurement used by the second health care server; and convert the first system of measurement for the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second system of measurement.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein to map the one or more elements of the electronic medical record, the computer readable program when executed on the computer further causes the computer to: determine a first medical coding classification system used for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record by the first health care server; determine a second medical coding classification system used by the second health care provider; determine a code map for mapping the first medical coding classification system to the second medical coding classification system; and convert the first medical coding classification system for encoding the one or more elements of the electronic medical record to the second medical coding classification system using the code map.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the computer readable program when executed on the computer further causes the computer to: determine an inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record; generate an exception event based on the inconsistency; determine a learned dictionary; process the exception event using the learned dictionary; and resolve the inconsistency in mapping the one or more elements of the electronic medical record based on.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the first data format is JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), the intermediate data format is extensible markup language (XML), and the second data format is health level 7 message format.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein one or more of the first system of measurement and the second system of measurement is a system of measurement from a group of metric system, imperial system, and United States customary units.
</claims>
</document>
