<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T15/00,G06T15/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIERACH, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67105791
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COARSE COMPUTE SHADING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide an apparatus comprising a processor to maintain a plurality of first-in first-out (FIFO) queue structures in a computer readable memory, each of the plurality of FIFO queue structures corresponding to a coarse selection dispatch rate, receive a request message to dispatch coarse compute shader work, the request message comprising a requested coarse selection dispatch rate and a thread identifier, and store the request message in a FIFO queue structure having a coarse selection dispatch rate corresponding to the requested coarse selection dispatch rate associated with the request message. Other embodiments may be described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: maintaining a plurality of first-in first-out (FIFO) queue structures in a computer readable memory, each of the plurality of FIFO queue structures corresponding to a coarse selection dispatch rate; receiving a request message to dispatch coarse compute shader work, the request message comprising a requested coarse selection dispatch rate and a thread identifier; storing the request message in a FIFO queue structure having a coarse selection dispatch rate corresponding to the requested coarse selection dispatch rate associated with the request message.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving payload data with the request message; and storing the payload data in the computer readable memory.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader thread using a shader code that corresponds to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forwarding the message to a thread dispatcher.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: releasing data in the FIFO queue structure with the message to the thread dispatcher.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader thread having a dispatch rate corresponding to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that a watchdog timer expired before the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forwarding the message to a thread dispatcher.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: releasing data in the FIFO queue structure with the message to the thread dispatcher.
7. A non-transitory machine readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: maintaining a plurality of first-in first-out (FIFO) queue structures in a computer readable memory, each of the plurality of FIFO queue structures corresponding to a coarse selection dispatch rate; receiving a request message to dispatch coarse compute shader work, the request message comprising a requested coarse selection dispatch rate and a thread identifier; storing the request message in a FIFO queue structure having a coarse selection dispatch rate corresponding to the requested coarse selection dispatch rate associated with the request message.
8. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: receiving payload data with the request message; and storing the payload data in the computer readable memory.
9. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: generating a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader thread using a shader code that corresponds to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forwarding the message to a thread dispatcher.
10. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 9, the operations additionally comprising: releasing data in the FIFO queue structure with the message to the thread dispatcher.
11. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 7, the operations additionally comprising: generating a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader thread having a dispatch rate corresponding to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that a watchdog timer expired before the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forwarding the message to a thread dispatcher.
12. The non-transitory machine readable medium of claim 11, the operations additionally comprising: determining an average detail frequency parameter for the region; and determining a standard deviation detail frequency parameter for the region.
13. An apparatus, comprising: a processor to: maintain a plurality of first-in first-out (FIFO) queue structures in a computer readable memory, each of the plurality of FIFO queue structures corresponding to a coarse selection dispatch rate; receive a request message to dispatch coarse compute shader work, the request message comprising a requested coarse selection dispatch rate and a thread identifier; store the request message in a FIFO queue structure having a coarse selection dispatch rate corresponding to the requested coarse selection dispatch rate associated with the request message; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to: receive payload data with the request message; and store the payload data in the computer readable memory.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to: generating a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader thread using a shader code that corresponds to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forward the message to a thread dispatcher.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to: release data in the FIFO queue structure with the message to the thread dispatcher.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, the processor to: generate a message with instructions to dispatch a compute shader having a dispatch rate corresponding to the coarse selection dispatch rate of the FIFO queue structure in response to a determination that a watchdog timer expired before the FIFO queue structure comprises a number of request messages sufficient to dispatch the course compute shader work with a fully populated single instruction multiple data (SIMD) thread; and forward the message to a thread dispatcher.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, the processor to: release data in the FIFO queue structure with the message to the thread dispatcher.
</claims>
</document>
