<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E01C23/01,G06Q50/30,G08G1/01,G08G1/0962,G08G1/0967,G08G1/097
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAMERLY, MICHAEL E.
JOHNSON, JUSTIN M.
HOWARD, JAMES W.
SNYDER, JAMES B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63878826
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROBE MANAGEMENT MESSAGES FOR VEHICLE-SOURCED INFRASTRUCTURE QUALITY METRICS
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, a sign maintenance system includes a traffic management control system; a plurality of road side equipment; and an infrastructure management service provider; wherein a sign maintenance application determines information needed for sign maintenance planning and transmits a probe management request to the traffic management control system requesting the information; wherein the traffic management control system transmits a probe management message to road side equipment in response to the probe management request, receives one or more messages received from connected vehicles, the messages reflecting sensor information captured by sensors of the connected vehicles, and transmits, to the infrastructure management service provider, the information received from the vehicle messages, and wherein the sign maintenance application in the infrastructure maintenance service provider schedules sign maintenance based on the information received from the connected vehicles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An infrastructure management system, comprising: a traffic management control system; a plurality of instances of road side equipment, each communicatively coupled to the traffic management control system; and an infrastructure management service provider communicatively coupled to the traffic management control system, wherein the infrastructure management provider includes a maintenance planning application, wherein the maintenance planning application determines information needed for maintenance planning and transmits a probe management request to the traffic management control system requesting the information, wherein the traffic management control system transmits a probe management message to one or more of the instances of road side equipment in response to the probe management request, receives, from the one or more of the instances of road side equipment, one or more messages received from connected vehicles, the messages reflecting sensor information captured by sensors of the connected vehicles, and transmits, to the infrastructure management service provider, the information received from the vehicle messages, and wherein the infrastructure maintenance service provider adjusts planned infrastructure maintenance based on the information received from the connected vehicles.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the infrastructure management provider provides an infrastructure management service and is communicatively coupled to one or more clients of the infrastructure management service.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the infrastructure management provider provides a cloud-based infrastructure management service to one or more clients of the infrastructure management service.
4. A method, comprising: transmitting a probe management message from a traffic management control system to road side equipment, wherein the probe management message includes a request for information from target vehicles; transmitting the probe management message from the road side equipment to one or more of the target vehicles; receiving, at the road side equipment, responses from the target vehicles to the probe management message, wherein the responses include the information requested from the target vehicles; forwarding the responses from the road side equipment to the traffic management control system; forwarding the information requested from the targeted vehicles to an infrastructure maintenance service provider; and adjusting, at the infrastructure maintenance service provider and based on the information received from the targeted vehicles, planned infrastructure maintenance.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles.
6. 6-8. (canceled)
9. A method, comprising: transmitting a probe management request from an infrastructure management service provider to a traffic management control system, wherein the probe management request includes a request for information from target vehicles; transmitting a probe management message from a traffic management control system to road side equipment, wherein the probe management message includes the request for information from target vehicles; transmitting the probe management message from the road side equipment to one or more of the target vehicles; receiving, at the road side equipment, responses from the target vehicles to the probe management message, wherein the responses include the information requested from the target vehicles; forwarding the responses from the road side equipment to the traffic management control system and, via the traffic management control system to the infrastructure maintenance service provider; and adjusting, at the infrastructure maintenance service provider and based on the information received from the targeted vehicles, planned infrastructure maintenance.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles and wherein the sensor information is relevant to sign maintenance.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles and wherein the sensor information is relevant to roadway maintenance.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles and wherein the sensor information is relevant to paving marking maintenance.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles and wherein the sensor information is relevant to work zone monitoring.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the targeted vehicles and wherein the sensor information is relevant to blockchain verification of information embedded in a sign.
16. A method, comprising: transmitting a probe management request from an infrastructure management service provider to a traffic management control system, wherein the probe management request includes a request for information from one or more vehicles traversing a selected roadway; transmitting a probe management message from a traffic management control system to road side equipment, wherein the probe management message includes the request for information from the vehicles traversing the selected roadway; transmitting the probe management message from the road side equipment to one or more of the vehicles traversing the selected roadway; receiving, at the road side equipment, responses from the vehicles to the probe management message, wherein the responses include the information requested from the vehicles; forwarding the responses from the road side equipment to the traffic management control system; and determining roadway quality for the selected roadway based on the information received from the vehicles.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the vehicles traversing the selected roadway.
18. A method, comprising: transmitting a probe management request from an infrastructure management service provider to a traffic management control system, wherein the probe management request includes a request for information from one or more vehicles traversing a roadway having a selected item of infrastructure; transmitting a probe management message from a traffic management control system to road side equipment, wherein the probe management message includes the request for information from the vehicles traversing the roadway; transmitting the probe management message from the road side equipment to one or more of the vehicles traversing the roadway; receiving, at the road side equipment, responses from the vehicles to the probe management message, wherein the responses include the information requested from the vehicles; forwarding the responses from the road side equipment to the traffic management control system; and determining quality for the selected item of infrastructure based on the information received from the vehicles.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the vehicles traversing the selected roadway.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the vehicle, wherein the sensor information is relevant to the selected item of infrastructure.
21. The method of claim 18, wherein the selected item of infrastructure is a sign, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the vehicle, and wherein the sensor information is relevant to determining quality of the sign.
22. The method of claim 18, wherein the selected item of infrastructure is work zone furniture, wherein the information requested is sensor information captured by sensors in the vehicle, and wherein the sensor information is relevant to determining quality of the work zone furniture.
23. A method, comprising: receiving, at road side equipment and from a connected vehicle, a message indicating a suspicious read of security information embedded in a sign; forwarding the message from the road side equipment to a traffic management control system; and transmitting a probe management message from the traffic management control system to road side equipment in the vicinity of the sign, wherein the probe management message includes a request for information by selected vehicles capable of reading the security information embedded in the sign; transmitting the probe management message from the road side equipment to the selected vehicles capable of reading the security information embedded in the sign; receiving, at the road side equipment, responses from the selected vehicles to the probe management message, wherein the responses include information on the reading, from the sign, of the security information embedded in the sign; forwarding the responses from the road side equipment to the traffic management control system; and determining if the suspicious read was due to an issue with the sign.
24. 24-37. (canceled)
</claims>
</document>
