<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L9/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALEXANDER, ELDRIDGE LEE
Hussain, Mujtaba
Barclay, James Leslie
Mooney, Nicholas James
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039479
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTITY SERVICES FOR PASSWORDLESS AUTHENTICATION
</title>

<abstract>
An identity server authenticates a first user identity for a user device through a first authentication exchange as part of a passwordless authentication system. The identity server registers with a relying party as an authenticator for a second user identity. The identity server initiates a second authentication exchange by obtaining from the relying party, a credential request associated with the second user identity. Responsive to a determination that the first user identity authenticated in the first authentication exchange is authorized to act as the second user identity, the identity server obtains a credential request response authenticated by the authenticator in the identity server. The identity server completes the second authentication exchange by providing the credential response to the relying party. The second authentication exchange authenticates the user device to the relying party without involving the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: authenticating a first user identity for a user device at an identity server through a first authentication exchange as part of a passwordless authentication system; registering the identity server as an authenticator for a second user identity with a relying party; initiating a second authentication exchange by obtaining from the relying party, a credential request associated with the second user identity; responsive to a determination that the first user identity authenticated in the first authentication exchange is authorized to act as the second user identity, obtaining a credential response authenticated by the authenticator in the identity server; and completing the second authentication exchange by providing the credential response to the relying party, wherein the second authentication exchange authenticates the user device to the relying party without involving the user device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising registering the identity server as the authenticator for a plurality of relying parties in the passwordless authentication system.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising storing private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity in a hardware storage module coupled to the identity server.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising updating the private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, obtaining from the user device, a registration of an authenticator for the first user identity in the passwordless authentication system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the passwordless authentication system is configured according to WebAuthn standards.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination that the first user identity is authorized to act as the second user identity is based on the first user identity being assigned to a role associated with the second user identity.
8. An apparatus comprising: a network interface configured to communicate with a user device and a relying party across one or more computer networks; a hardware storage module configured to store private cryptographic information; and a processor coupled to the network interface and the hardware storage module, the processor configured to: authenticate a first user identity for the user device at an identity server through a first authentication exchange as part of a passwordless authentication system; register the identity server as an authenticator for a second user identity with the relying party; initiate a second authentication exchange by obtaining from the relying party via the network interface, a credential request associated with the second user identity; responsive to a determination that the first user identity authenticated in the first authentication exchange is authorized to act as the second user identity, obtain a credential response authenticated by the authenticator in the identity server; and complete the second authentication exchange by causing the network interface to provide the credential response to the relying party, wherein the second authentication exchange authenticates the user device to the relying party without involving the user device.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to register the identity server as the authenticator for a plurality of relying parties in the passwordless authentication system.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to store private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity in the hardware storage module.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to update the private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity.
12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configure to obtain from the user device via the network interface, a registration of an authenticator for the first user identity in the passwordless authentication system.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the passwordless authentication system is configured according to WebAuthn standards.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the determination that the first user identity is authorized to act as the second user identity is based on the processor assigning the first user identity to a role associated with the second user identity.
15. One or more non-transitory computer readable storage media encoded with instructions that, when executed by a processor of an identity server, cause the processor to: authenticate a first user identity for a user device through a first authentication exchange as part of a passwordless authentication system; register the identity server as an authenticator for a second user identity with a relying party; initiate a second authentication exchange by obtaining from the relying party, a credential request associated with the second user identity; responsive to a determination that the first user identity authenticated in the first authentication exchange is authorized to act as the second user identity, obtain a credential response authenticated by the authenticator in the identity server; and complete the second authentication exchange by providing the credential response to the relying party, wherein the second authentication exchange authenticates the user device to the relying party without involving the user device.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to register the identity server as the authenticator for a plurality of relying parties in the passwordless authentication system.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to store private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity in a hardware storage module coupled to the identity server.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 17, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to update the private cryptographic information associated with the second user identity.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to obtain from the user device, a registration of an authenticator for the first user identity in the passwordless authentication system.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage media of claim 15, further comprising instructions operable to cause the processor to determine that the first user identity is authorized to act as the second user identity based on the processor assigning the first user identity to a role associated with the second user identity.
</claims>
</document>
