<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G11C11/00,G11C13/00,G11C5/06,H01L27/11521,H01L27/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEOBANDUNG, EFFENDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RESISTIVE PROCESSING UNITS WITH COMPLEMENTARY METAL-OXIDE-SEMICONDUCTOR NON-VOLATILE ANALOG MEMORY
</title>

<abstract>
A cross-bar array includes one or more input row lines, one or more output column lines, one or more resistive processing units (RPUs) coupled at one or more intersections of the input row lines and the output column lines, and a control circuit. A given one of the RPUs includes an analog memory element including a first terminal coupled to a given one of the input row lines and a second terminal coupled to a given one of the output column lines. The analog memory element includes a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor structure including an n-type field-effect transistor and a p-type field-effect transistor. A gate of the n-type field-effect transistor is coupled to a gate of the p-type field effect transistor to provide a floating gate. The control circuit is configured to read a synaptic weight value of the given RPU by measuring a stored electrical charge of the floating gate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cross-bar array, comprising: one or more input row lines; one or more output column lines; one or more resistive processing units coupled at one or more intersections of the one or more input row lines and the one or more output column lines; and a control circuit; wherein a given one of the one or more resistive processing units comprising an analog memory element comprising a first terminal coupled to a given one of the input row lines and a second terminal coupled to a given one of the output column lines; wherein the analog memory element comprising a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor structure comprising an n-type field-effect transistor and a p-type field-effect transistor; wherein a gate of the n-type field-effect transistor is coupled to a gate of the p-type field effect transistor to provide a floating gate; and wherein the control circuit is configured to read a synaptic weight value of the given resistive processing unit by measuring a stored electrical charge of the floating gate.
2. The cross-bar array of claim 1, wherein a first source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is shorted to a first source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor, a second source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is coupled to given output column line, and a second source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor is coupled to the given input row line.
3. The cross-bar array of claim 1, wherein the n-type field-effect transistor comprises a depletion mode transistor and the p-type field-effect transistor comprises an enhancement mode transistor.
4. The cross-bar array of claim 1, wherein the control circuit comprises one or more current integrators coupled to the one or more output column lines, the control circuit being configured in a forward pass operation to read the synaptic weight value by measuring a current across the given resistive processing unit using a given one of the current integrators coupled to the given output column line.
5. The cross-bar array of claim 4, wherein the control circuit further comprises a current mirror configured to provide a reference current to the given current integrator, wherein reading the synaptic weight value in the forward pass operation comprises determining a sign of the synaptic weight value by comparing the measured current across the given resistive processing unit to the reference current.
6. The cross-bar array of claim 4, wherein the control circuit further comprises one or more analog-to-digital converters coupled to the one or more current integrators, wherein reading the synaptic weight value further comprises converting the measured current across the given resistive processing unit to a numerical weight value utilizing a given one of the one or more analog-to-digital converters coupled to the given output column line.
7. A resistive processing unit, comprising: an analog memory element comprising a first terminal coupled to an input row line of a cross-bar array and a second terminal coupled to an output column line of the cross-bar array; the analog memory element comprising a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor structure comprising an n-type field-effect transistor and a p-type field-effect transistor; a gate of the n-type field-effect transistor being coupled to a gate of the p-type field effect transistor to provide a floating gate; and a stored electrical charge of the floating gate providing a synaptic weight value of the resistive processing unit.
8. The resistive processing unit of claim 7, wherein a first source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is shorted to a first source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor, a second source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is coupled to the output column line, and a second source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor is coupled to the input row line.
9. The resistive processing unit of claim 7, wherein the n-type field-effect transistor comprises a depletion mode transistor and the p-type field-effect transistor comprises an enhancement mode transistor.
10. A method for reading a synaptic weight value of a given resistive processing unit, comprising: applying a first voltage to a given one of one or more input row lines of a cross-bar array; applying a second voltage to a given one of one or more output column lines of the cross-bar array; and measuring a current across the given resistive processing unit having a first terminal coupled to the given input row line and a second terminal coupled to the given output row line; wherein the given resistive processing unit comprises an analog memory element comprising a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor structure comprising an n-type field-effect transistor and a p-type field-effect transistor, a gate of the n-type field-effect transistor being coupled to a gate of the p-type field effect transistor to provide a floating gate, and the measured current being a function of a stored electrical charge of the floating gate providing the synaptic weight value of the given resistive processing unit.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein a first source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is shorted to a first source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor, a second source/drain terminal of the n-type field-effect transistor is coupled to given output column line, and a second source/drain terminal of the p-type field-effect transistor is coupled to the given input row line.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the n-type field-effect transistor comprises a depletion mode transistor and the p-type field-effect transistor comprises an enhancement mode transistor.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein measuring the current across the given resistive processing unit comprises utilizing a given one of one or more current integrators of a control circuit, the given current integrator being coupled to the given output column line.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining a sign of the synaptic weight value by comparing the measured current across the given resistive processing unit with a reference current provided by a current mirror of the control circuit.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising converting the measured current to a numerical weight value utilizing a given one of one or more analog-to-digital converters of the control circuit coupled to the given current integrator.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein measuring the current across the given resistive processing unit comprises applying the first voltage to the given input row line and applying a zero voltage to other ones of the input row lines, the first voltage being a fixed, non-zero voltage.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising updating the synaptic weight value of the given resistive processing unit to increase the synaptic weight value by injecting electrons into the floating gate to increase the stored electrical charge of the floating gate.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein injecting electrons into the floating gate comprises: applying a negative voltage pulse to the given input row line coupled to the first terminal of the given resistive processing unit; applying a ground voltage to the given output column line coupled to the second terminal of the given resistive processing unit; and applying a fixed negative voltage to other ones of the input row lines and the output column lines, the fixed negative voltage having a lower amplitude than the negative voltage pulse applied to the given input row line.
19. The method of claim 10, further comprising updating the synaptic weight value of the given resistive processing unit to decrease the synaptic weight value by subtracting electrons from the floating gate to decrease the stored electrical charge of the floating gate.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein subtracting electrons from the floating gate comprises: applying a positive voltage pulse to the given input row line coupled to the first terminal of the given resistive processing unit; applying a ground voltage to the given output column line coupled to the second terminal of the given resistive processing unit; and applying a fixed positive voltage to other ones of the input row lines and the output column lines, the fixed positive voltage having a lower amplitude than the positive voltage pulse applied to the given input row line.
</claims>
</document>
