<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47J31/00,A47J31/44,A47J31/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BE AEROSPACE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILLS, BRIAN P.
Abu-Saymeh, Mudar S.
Jones, Justin D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68917442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Brewing Apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
A brewing apparatus may include a chassis. The chassis may include a chassis beverage cup base. A chassis beverage cup cavity defined within the chassis beverage cup base may be configured to receive a beverage cup of a plurality of beverage cups. The brewing apparatus may include an adaptor insert assembly dimensioned to fit within the chassis beverage cup cavity. An adaptor insert cavity defined within the adaptor insert may be configured to receive a second beverage cup of a plurality of beverage cups. The brewing apparatus may include a controller configured to acquire data about the beverage cup or the second beverage cup via the one or more sensors. The controller may be configured to at least one of select or adjust a catering profile of a plurality of catering profiles based on the acquired data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A brewing apparatus, comprising: a chassis dimensioned to fit within a compartment of an aircraft galley, the chassis comprising: a chassis beverage cup base, a chassis beverage cup cavity being defined within the chassis beverage cup base, the chassis beverage cup cavity configured to receive a beverage cup of a plurality of beverage cups; a heater plate, the beverage cup being positioned proximate to the heater plate when inserted into the chassis beverage cup cavity; and one or more chassis sensors configured to acquire data about the beverage cup, the data comprising a set of operational parameters for the beverage cup; and a controller in communication with the one or more chassis sensors, the controller configured to: acquire data via the one or more chassis sensors; and at least one of select or adjust a catering profile of a plurality of catering profiles based on the acquired data.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the set of operational parameters for the beverage cup comprising: a placement of the beverage cup within the chassis beverage cup cavity, a plurality of dimensions for the beverage cup, or a brew product level within the beverage cup.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an adaptor insert assembly dimensioned to fit within the defined beverage cup cavity, the adaptor insert assembly comprising: an adaptor insert, an adaptor insert cavity being defined within the adaptor insert, the adaptor insert cavity configured to receive a second beverage cup of the plurality of beverage cups; an adaptor insert heater plate, the second beverage cup being positioned proximate to the adaptor insert heater plate when inserted into the adaptor insert cavity; and one or more adaptor insert sensors configured to acquire data for the second beverage cup, the data comprising one or more operational parameters for the second beverage cup, the controller being in communication with the one or more adaptor insert sensors, the controller configured to: acquire data via the one or more adaptor insert sensors; and at least one of select or adjust a second catering profile of a plurality of catering profiles based on the acquired data.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, the set of operational parameters for the second beverage cup comprising: a placement of the second beverage cup within the adaptor insert cavity, a plurality of dimensions for the second beverage cup, or a brew product level within the second beverage cup.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, the controller configured to: switch from the catering profile to the second catering profile following insertion of the adaptor insert assembly into the defined beverage cup cavity and insertion of the second beverage cup into the defined adaptor insert cavity; and switch from the second catering profile to the catering profile following removal of the adaptor insert assembly from the defined beverage cup cavity and insertion of the beverage cup into the defined beverage cup cavity.
6. The apparatus of claim 3, the chassis beverage cup base comprising: one or more restraint assemblies configured to secure the beverage cup within the defined beverage cup cavity.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, the adaptor insert assembly configured to couple to the chassis beverage cup base via the one or more restraint assemblies.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, the chassis beverage cup base further comprising: at least one electrical connector configured to couple to the adaptor insert assembly, the heating plate of the adaptor insert assembly configured to receive power via the at least one electrical connector.
9. The apparatus of claim 3, the adaptor insert assembly further comprising: one or more restraint assemblies configured to secure the second beverage cup within the defined adaptor insert cavity.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, the heater plate being translatable via a translating assembly within the chassis.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, the one or more chassis sensors comprising at least one of a beverage cup presence sensor, a beverage cup fluid level detection sensor, a beverage cup fluid overflow protection sensor, a fluid flow meter positioned in-line between the Turkish kettle and a water tank housed within the chassis, or at least one heat-sensing element in communication with the controller.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a user interface in communication with the controller.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, the user interface comprising at least one user input device in communication with the controller, the controller further configured to: receive at least one user input from the at least one input device; and at least one of select or update a catering profile of the plurality of catering profiles based on the received at least one user input.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, the user interface further comprising at least one display device in communication with the controller.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, the controller further configured to: display a user selection option to a user on the at least one display device; receive at least one user input from one or more of the at least one user input device or the at least one display device; and at least one of select or update a catering profile of the plurality of catering profiles based on the received at least one user input.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, the controller further configured to: display at least one brew parameter of the selected catering profile on the at least one display device, the at least one brew parameter including one or more of a brew temperature or a brew time.
17. A brewing apparatus, comprising: a chassis dimensioned to fit within a compartment of an aircraft galley, the chassis comprising: a chassis beverage cup base, a chassis beverage cup cavity being defined within the chassis beverage cup base, the chassis beverage cup cavity configured to receive a beverage cup of a plurality of beverage cups; and a heater plate, the beverage cup being positioned proximate to the heater plate when inserted into the chassis beverage cup cavity; and an adaptor insert assembly dimensioned to fit within the chassis beverage cup cavity, the adaptor insert assembly comprising: an adaptor insert, an adaptor insert cavity being defined within the adaptor insert, the adaptor insert cavity configured to receive a second beverage cup of the plurality of beverage cups; and an adaptor insert heater plate, the second beverage cup being positioned proximate to the adaptor insert heater plate when inserted into the adaptor insert cavity.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a controller in communication with at least one of the chassis or the adaptor insert assembly, the controller configured to: acquire at least one of: data comprising a set of operational parameters of the beverage cup via one or more chassis sensors in the chassis; or data comprising a set of operational parameters of the second beverage cup via one or more adaptor insert sensors in the adaptor insert assembly; and at least one of select or adjust a catering profile of a plurality of catering profiles based on the acquired data.
19. A Turkish coffee maker for an aircraft, comprising: a chassis dimensioned to fit within a compartment of an aircraft galley, the chassis comprising: a chassis beverage cup base, a chassis beverage cup cavity being defined within the chassis beverage cup base, the chassis beverage cup cavity configured to receive a Turkish kettle; a heater plate, the Turkish kettle being positioned proximate to the heater plate when inserted into the chassis beverage cup cavity, the heater plate being translatable via a translating assembly within the chassis; one or more chassis sensors configured to acquire data about the Turkish kettle, the data comprising a set of operational parameters for the Turkish kettle; and one or more beverage cup restraint assemblies configured to secure the Turkish kettle within the defined beverage cup cavity; and a controller in communication with the one or more chassis sensors, the controller configured to: acquire data via the one or more chassis sensors; and at least one of select or adjust a catering profile of a plurality of catering profiles based on the acquired data.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, the one or more chassis sensors comprising at least one of a beverage cup presence sensor, a beverage cup fluid level detection sensor, a beverage cup fluid overflow protection sensor, a fluid flow meter positioned in-line between the Turkish kettle and a water tank housed within the chassis, or at least one heat-sensing element in communication with the controller.
</claims>
</document>
