<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F40/284
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, HYUNGTAK
KANG, SEUNGSOO
LEE, DONGHYEON
LEE, HOJUNG
RYU, SEONGHAN
RAVURU, Lohit
LEE, Jongsun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70617057
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND CONTROLLING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus and a controlling method thereof are provided. The method of controlling an electronic apparatus according to an embodiment includes: obtaining first text information including a plurality of words, identifying a security level of the first text information based on at least one of a source from which the first text information is obtained or a type of the first text information, obtaining second text information by converting at least one of the plurality of words included in the first text information based on the identified security level, and obtaining first summary sentence information summarizing the second text information through a summary module.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a communication interface comprising communication circuitry; a memory including at least one instruction; and a processor connected to the communication interface and the memory and configured to control the electronic apparatus, wherein the processor is configured to execute the at least one instruction to: obtain first text information including a plurality of words, identify a security level of the first text information based on at least one of a source from which the first text information is obtained or a type of the first text information, obtain second text information by converting at least one of the plurality of words included in the first text information based on the identified security level, and obtain first summary sentence information summarizing the second text information through a summary module.
2. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to: identify at least one word requiring security from among the plurality of words included in the first text information based on the security level, and convert the at least one word based on at least one of a type or sensitivity of the identified at least one word.
3. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to obtain the second text information by masking at least one word included in the first text information requiring security based on the identified security level.
4. The apparatus as claimed in claim 2, wherein the processor is configured to obtain the second text information by replacing at least one word included in the first text information requiring security with another word or omitting at least one word based on the identified security level.
5. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to obtain second summary sentence information by restoring a converted word included in the first summary sentence information.
6. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first summary sentence information includes at least one converted word included in the second text information, and wherein the second summary sentence information includes a restored word of a converted word included in the first summary sentence information.
7. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to obtain a second word by converting a first word from among the plurality of words, wherein the first summary sentence information includes the second word, and wherein the processor is configured to obtain second summary sentence information including the first word by restoring the second word.
8. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the first summary sentence information includes a second converted word obtained based on a first converted word included in the second text information, and wherein the processor is configured to obtain a word included in the second summary sentence information and corresponding to the first converted word by restoring the second converted word.
9. The apparatus as claimed in claim 5, wherein the processor is configured to restore at least one converted word included in the first summary sentence using the first text information and the second text information.
10. The apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the electronic apparatus to: transmit the second text information to an external server in which the summary module is stored through the communication interface, and receive first summary sentence information from the external server through the communication interface.
11. A method of controlling an electronic apparatus, comprising: obtaining first text information including a plurality of words; identifying a security level of the first text information based on at least one of a source from which the first text information is obtained or a type of the first text information, obtaining second text information by converting at least one of the plurality of words included in the first text information based on the identified security level, and obtaining first summary sentence information summarizing the second text information through a summary module.
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the obtaining second text information comprises: identifying at least one word requiring security from among the plurality of words included in the first text information based on the security level; and converting the at least one word based on at least one of a type or sensitivity of the identified at least one word.
13. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the obtaining second text information comprises masking at least one word included in the first text information through a text conversion model based on the identified security level.
14. The method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the obtaining second text information comprises obtaining the second text information by replacing at least one word included in the first text information requiring security with another word or omitting at least one word based on the identified security level.
15. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprising: obtaining second summary sentence information by restoring a converted word included in the first summary sentence information.
16. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the first summary sentence information includes at least one converted word included in the second text information, and wherein the second summary sentence information includes a restored word of a converted word included in the first summary sentence information.
17. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the obtaining second text information comprise obtaining a second word by converting a first word from among the plurality of words, wherein the first summary sentence information includes the second word, and wherein the obtaining second summary sentence information comprises obtaining second summary sentence information including the first word by restoring the second word.
18. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the first summary sentence information includes a second converted word obtained based on a first converted word included in the second text information, and wherein the obtaining second summary sentence information includes obtaining a word included in the second summary sentence information and corresponding to the first converted word by restoring the second converted word.
19. The method as claimed in claim 15, wherein the obtaining second summary sentence information comprises restoring at least one converted word included in the first summary sentence using the first text information and the second text information.
20. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the obtaining first summary sentence information comprises transmitting the second text information to an external server in which the summary module is stored, and receiving first summary sentence information from the external server.
</claims>
</document>
