<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/14,G16H10/60,G16H15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENLITIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
LYMAN, KEVIN
UPTON, ANTHONY
YAO, LI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL BILLING VERIFICATION SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A medical billing verification system can be operable to determining at least one medical code corresponding to a medical report for a patient, where the at least one medical code indicates a medical procedure that was performed on the patient a billing rate that corresponds to the at least one medical code can be determined by utilizing a mapping of medical codes to billing rates. Billing data corresponding to the medical procedure that was performed on the patient can be received, where the billing data indicates an amount that was billed for the medical procedure. Billing verification data can be generated by comparing the billing rate to the billing data. An improper billing notification can be generated for transmission to a client device via the network for display via a display device in response to the billing verification data indicating the billing rate compares unfavorably to the billing data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical billing verification system, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the medical billing verification system to: determine at least one medical code corresponding to a medical report for a patient, wherein the at least one medical code indicates a medical procedure that was performed on the patient; determine a billing rate that corresponds to the at least one medical code by utilizing a mapping of medical codes to billing rates; receive, via a network, billing data corresponding to the medical procedure that was performed on the patient, wherein the billing data indicates an amount that was billed for the medical procedure; generate billing verification data by comparing the billing rate to the billing data; and generate an improper billing notification for transmission to a client device via the network for display via a display device in response to the billing verification data indicating the billing rate compares unfavorably to the billing data.
2. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the at least one medical code is generated by performing a medical code generator function on text of the medical report, and wherein performing the medical code generator function includes: receiving, via the network, text of the medical report; detecting at least one medical term in the text of the medical report; and determining the at least one medical code is mapped to the at least one medical term by utilizing a mapping of medical terms to medical codes.
3. The medical billing verification system of claim 2, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: receive a plurality of medical reports and a corresponding plurality of medical codes; and generate the mapping of medical terms to medical codes by training a natural language processing model on the plurality of medical reports and the corresponding plurality of medical codes.
4. The medical billing verification system of claim 3, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: transmit the each of the plurality of medical reports to one of a plurality of client devices for display via an interactive interface to one of a plurality of users; and receive the corresponding plurality of medical codes from the plurality of client devices; wherein the corresponding plurality of medical codes are generated by the plurality of client devices based on user input to the plurality of client device, wherein the user input to each of the plurality of client devices is in response to a prompt displayed by the interactive interface to select at least one medical code for one of the plurality of medical reports displayed by the interactive interface.
5. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the improper billing notification indicates an under-billing occurred, and wherein the improper billing notification further indicates an additional balance due.
6. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the improper billing notification indicates an over-billing occurred, and wherein the improper billing notification further indicates an refund amount.
7. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the at least one medical code corresponds to one of: a Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) code or an International Classification of Disease, Tenth Edition (ICD-10) code.
8. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: receive a new medical report that indicates a procedure that has not yet been billed; determine a second at least one medical code for the new medical report by performing a medical code generator function on text of the new medical report; determine a second billing rate that corresponds to the second at least one medical code by utilizing the mapping of medical codes to billing rates; and generate a billing notification for transmission to a second client device via the network for display via a second display device, wherein the billing notification indicates an amount owed for the procedure based on the second billing rate.
9. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: select the medical report for the patient from a plurality of medical reports for a plurality of patients, wherein the medical report is selected randomly as part of a quality assurance process.
10. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: determine a second at least one medical code corresponding to a second medical report for a second patient, wherein the second at least one medical code indicates a second procedure; determine a second billing rate that corresponds to the second at least one medical code by utilizing the mapping of medical codes to billing rates; receive, via the network, second billing data, wherein the billing data indicates an amount that was billed for a medical procedure performed on the second patient; generate report verification data by comparing the billing rate to the billing data; and generate an incorrect report notification for transmission to the client device via the network for display via the display device in response to the report verification data indicating the billing rate compares unfavorably to the billing data, wherein the incorrect report notification indicates that the second procedure indicated in the second medical report was not actually performed on the second patient based on the report verification data.
11. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: determine a second at least one medical code corresponding to a second medical report for a second patient, wherein the second at least one medical code indicates a second procedure; determine proper follow-up procedure data based on applying an inference function to at least one patient file corresponding to the second patient; generate proper procedure verification data by comparing the second procedure indicated in the second at least one medical code to the proper follow-up procedure data; and generate an improper procedure notification for transmission to the client device via the network for display via the display device in response to the proper procedure verification data indicating the second procedure compares unfavorably to the proper follow-up procedure data, wherein the improper procedure notification indicates that the second procedure indicated in the second medical report was not an appropriate procedure for the patient based on the at least one patient file.
12. The medical billing verification system of claim 11, wherein the at least one patient file includes text data of the second medical report, and wherein the inference function was trained on text data of a plurality of medical reports.
13. The medical billing verification system of claim 11, wherein the at least one patient file includes at least one medical scan of the second patient, wherein the proper follow-up procedure data is determined based on detecting at least one abnormality detected in image data of the at least one medical scan, and wherein the inference function was trained on a plurality of medical scans.
14. The medical billing verification system of claim 13, wherein the at least one patient file includes longitudinal data that includes a plurality of medical scans of the second patient, wherein the proper follow-up procedure data is determined based on generating lesion change measurement data for at least one lesion detected in image data of the plurality of medical scans.
15. The medical billing verification system of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the medical billing verification system to: determine a plurality of medical code data, wherein each of the plurality of medical code data indicates at least one medical code for a corresponding one of a plurality of medical reports corresponding to one of a plurality of patients; generate risk stratification data based on the plurality of medical code data; and transmit the risk stratification data to the client device via the network for display via the display device.
16. The medical billing verification system of claim 15, wherein generating the risk stratification data includes generating categorized risk stratification data for a plurality of categories, and wherein the display device displays categorized risk stratification data for a selected one of the plurality of categories based on user input that indicates the selected one of the plurality of categories, and wherein the user input is received in response to a prompt presented via an interactive interface presented on the display device to select one of the plurality of categories.
17. The medical billing verification system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of categories includes at least one of: a plurality of patient demographic categories or a plurality of patient history categories.
18. The medical billing verification system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of categories includes at least one of: a plurality of procedures or a plurality of diagnoses.
19. A method for execution by a medical billing verification system, comprising: determining at least one medical code corresponding to a medical report for a patient, wherein the at least one medical code indicates a medical procedure that was performed on the patient; determining a billing rate that corresponds to the at least one medical code by utilizing a mapping of medical codes to billing rates; receiving, via a network, billing data corresponding to the medical procedure that was performed on the patient, wherein the billing data indicates an amount that was billed for the medical procedure; generating billing verification data by comparing the billing rate to the billing data; and generating an improper billing notification for transmission to a client device via the network for display via a display device in response to the billing verification data indicating the billing rate compares unfavorably to the billing data.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the at least one medical code is generated by performing a medical code generator function on text of the medical report, and wherein performing the medical code generator function includes: receiving, via the network, text of the medical report; detecting at least one medical term in the text of the medical report; and determining the at least one medical code is mapped to the at least one medical term by utilizing a mapping of medical terms to medical codes.
</claims>
</document>
