<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASARAGHAVAN, HARIPRIYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69139497
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-ORGANIZING MAPS FOR ADAPTIVE INDIVIDUALIZED USER PREFERENCE DETERMINATION FOR RECOMMENDATION SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A computing device may include a memory configured to store instructions and a processor configured to execute the instructions to receive a selection of a content catalog item or a search query from a user; generate an input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query; and map the generated input vector onto one or more points on a self-organizing map associated with the user. The processor may be further configured to select a set of points within a particular distance of the one or more points; reverse map the selected set of points to a plurality of content catalog items using the self-organizing map associated with the user; and present one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user as recommended content catalog items for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computer device, a selection of a content catalog item or a search query from a user; generating, by the computer device, an input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query; mapping, by the computer device, the generated input vector onto one or more points on a self-organizing map associated with the user; selecting, by the computer device, a set of points within a particular distance of the one or more points; reverse mapping, by the computer device, the selected set of points to a plurality of content catalog items using the self-organizing map associated with the user; and presenting, by the computer device, one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user as recommended content catalog items for the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the selection of the content catalog item or the search query from the user includes: receiving the selection of the content catalog item; and wherein presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user includes: presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items as items similar to the selected content catalog item.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the selection of the content catalog item or the search query from the user includes: receiving the search query from the user; wherein generating the input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query includes: generating one or more partial input vectors based on one or more terms or parameters included in the search query; and wherein presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user includes: presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items as results of the search query.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining consumption information for the user relating to content catalog items in a content catalog; generating input vectors for the content catalog items, wherein the input vectors include a first set of dimensions based on categories associated with the content catalog items and a second set of dimensions based on the consumption information for the user; and generating the self-organizing map associated with the user based on the generated input vectors.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: obtaining updated consumption information for the user relating to one or more additional content catalog items; and updating the self-organizing map associated with the user based on the obtained updated consumption information for the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein mapping the generated input vector onto one or more points on the self-organizing map associated with the user includes: determining that the self-organizing map for the user does not exist; determining a user category associated with the user; and selecting a default self-organizing map for the determined user category as the self-organizing map associated with the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of points within the particular distance of the one or more points includes: defining a neighborhood diameter; and selecting the set of points as points within the defined neighborhood diameter of the one or more points.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating different self-organizing maps for different users.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: selecting a set of users; generating user clusters for the selected set of users based on self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users; and providing content catalog recommendations to particular ones of the selected set of users based on the generated user clusters.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the user clusters for the selected set of users based on self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users includes: obtaining consumption information for the selected set of users relating to content catalog items in a content catalog; generating related content results for catalog content items included in the obtained consumption information for the selected set of users using the self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users; selecting a distance metric for user similarity; computing pairwise distances for the generated related content results for each pair of users in the selected set of users using the selected distance metric; and using a clustering method to generate the user clusters based on the computed pairwise distances.
11. A computer device comprising: a memory configured to store instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: receive a selection of a content catalog item or a search query from a user; generate an input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query; map the generated input vector onto one or more points on a self-organizing map associated with the user; select a set of points within a particular distance of the one or more points; reverse map the selected set of points to a plurality of content catalog items using the self-organizing map associated with the user; and present one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user as recommended content catalog items for the user.
12. The computer device of claim 11, wherein, when the processor is receiving the selection of the content catalog item or the search query from the user, the processor is further configured to: receive the selection of the content catalog item; and wherein, when presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user, the processor is further configured to: present the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items as items similar to the selected content catalog item.
13. The computer device of claim 11, wherein, when the processor is receiving the selection of the content catalog item or the search query from the user, the processor is further configured to: receive the search query from the user; wherein, when generating the input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query, the processor is further configured to: generate one or more partial input vectors based on one or more terms or parameters included in the search query; and wherein, when presenting the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user, the processor is further configured to: present the one or more of the plurality of content catalog items as results of the search query.
14. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain consumption information for the user relating to content catalog items in a content catalog; generate input vectors for the content catalog items, wherein the input vectors include a first set of dimensions based on categories associated with the content catalog items and a second set of dimensions based on the consumption information for the user; and generate the self-organizing map associated with the user based on the generated input vectors.
15. The computer device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain updated consumption information for the user relating to one or more additional content catalog items; and update the self-organizing map associated with the user based on the obtained updated consumption information for the user.
16. The computer device of claim 11, wherein, when mapping the generated input vector onto one or more points on the self-organizing map associated with the user, the processor is further configured to: determine that the self-organizing map for the user does not exist; determine a user category associated with the user; and select a default self-organizing map for the determined user category as the self-organizing map associated with the user.
17. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate different self-organizing maps for different users.
18. The computer device of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: select a set of users; generate user clusters for the selected set of users based on self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users; and provide content catalog recommendations to particular ones of the selected set of users based on the generated user clusters.
19. The computer device of claim 18, wherein, when generating the user clusters for the selected set of users based on self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users, the processor is further configured to: obtain consumption information for the selected set of users relating to content catalog items in a content catalog; generate related content results for catalog content items included in the obtained consumption information for the selected set of users using the self-organizing maps associated with the selected set of users; select a distance metric for user similarity; compute pairwise distances for the generated related content results for each pair of users in the selected set of users using the selected distance metric; and use a clustering method to generate the user clusters based on the computed pairwise distances.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable memory device storing instructions executable by a processor, the non-transitory computer-readable memory device comprising: one or more instructions to receive a selection of a content catalog item or a search query from a user; one or more instructions to generate an input vector based on the selected content catalog item or the search query; one or more instructions to map the generated input vector onto one or more points on a self-organizing map associated with the user; one or more instructions to select a set of points within a particular distance of the one or more points; one or more instructions to reverse map the selected set of points to a plurality of content catalog items using the self-organizing map associated with the user; and one or more instructions to present one or more of the plurality of content catalog items to the user as recommended content catalog items for the user.
</claims>
</document>
