<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61C7/00,A61C7/08,A61C9/00,G06T17/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
STERENTAL, RENE, M.
CHEKH, DMITRY YURIEVICH
RAMOS, JASON
KARNYGIN, EVGENII VLADIMIROVICH
POKOTILOV, PAVEL
BLANCO, SAMUEL
LOPES, DAVID PATRICK
TEN, DMITRIY KONSTANTINOVICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61913584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUALLY REPRESENTING AN ORTHODONTIC TREATMENT OUTCOME USING AUTOMATED DETECTION OF FACIAL AND DENTAL REFERENCE OBJECTS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for virtually representing an orthodontic treatment outcome using automated detection of facial and dental reference objects is disclosed herein. The computer-implemented method may involve modeling initial positions of an orthodontic patient's teeth in a three-dimensional (3D) virtual model and determining the effect of application of various force systems applied through an orthodontic treatment plan on the patient's teeth. Images of the patient's face may be used to identify facial reference objects. Dental reference objects of the patient's dentition may be identified from the 3D virtual model. A relationship between the facial reference objects and the dental reference objects may form the basis of modifications to the orthodontic treatment plan and/or modeling final orthodontic positions of the orthodontic treatment plan.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for planning a restorative procedure, the method comprising: identifying an initial position of a patient's teeth based at least in part on a digital representation of the patient's teeth; determining one or more candidate orthodontic positions for the patient's teeth, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is a target position of the patient's teeth being considered; virtually modeling a first restorative object at a first evaluated restorative object position on at least one of the patient's teeth; evaluating a first amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the first restorative object based at least in part on the first evaluated restorative object position and one of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions; and determining a final orthodontic position and a final restorative object position based at least in part on the first amount of tooth mass removal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more candidate orthodontic positions of the patient's teeth comprises modeling one or more virtual force systems against the digital representation of the patient's teeth.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein evaluating the first amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the first restorative object comprises: (i) determining an initial mass and a prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth, (ii) subtracting the prepared mass from the initial mass.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth is determined based at least in part on a shape of a tooth when prepared for receiving the first restorative object at the first evaluated restorative object position.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: virtually modeling a second restorative object at a second evaluated restorative object position on the at least one of the patient's teeth; and evaluating a second amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the second restorative object based at least in part on the second evaluated restorative object position and one of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the final orthodontic position and the final restorative object position comprises comparing the first amount of tooth mass removal and the second amount of tooth mass removal.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the first restorative object is different from the second restorative object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first restorative object is selected from the group consisting of crown, veneer, root canal, and implant.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: identifying an initial position of a patient's teeth based at least in part on a digital representation of the patient's teeth; determining one or more candidate orthodontic positions for the patient's teeth, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is a target position of the patient's teeth being considered; virtually modeling a first restorative object at a first evaluated restorative object position on at least one of the patient's teeth; evaluating a first amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the first restorative object based at least in part on the first evaluated restorative object position and one of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions; and determining a final orthodontic position and a final restorative object position based at least in part on the first amount of tooth mass removal.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein determining the one or more candidate orthodontic positions of the patient's teeth comprises modeling one or more virtual force systems against the digital representation of the patient's teeth.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein evaluating the first amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the first restorative object comprises: (i) determining an initial mass and a prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth, (ii) subtracting the prepared mass from the initial mass.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth is determined based at least in part on a shape of a tooth when prepared for receiving the first restorative object at the first evaluated restorative object position.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: virtually modeling a second restorative object at a second evaluated restorative object position on the at least one of the patient's teeth; and evaluating a second amount of tooth mass removal corresponding to the second restorative object based at least in part on the second evaluated restorative object position and one of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining the final orthodontic position and the final restorative object position comprises comparing the first amount of tooth mass removal and the second amount of tooth mass removal.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the first restorative object is different from the second restorative object.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the first restorative object is selected from the group consisting of crown, veneer, root canal, and implant.
17. A method for planning a restorative procedure, the method comprising: identifying an initial position of a patient's teeth; determining one or more candidate orthodontic positions for the patient's teeth, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is a target position of the patient's teeth being considered; selecting a restorative object from a plurality of restorative objects to be modeled to at least one of the patient's teeth at one or more evaluated restorative object positions; evaluating one or more amounts of tooth mass removal for the restorative object corresponding to the one or more candidate orthodontic positions and the one or more evaluated restorative object positions; and determining a final amount of tooth mass removal based at least in part on a comparison of the one or more amounts of evaluated tooth mass removal.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining a final orthodontic position and a final restorative object position corresponding to the final amount of tooth mass removal.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the final amount of tooth mass removal is the minimum amount selected from the one or more amounts of evaluated tooth mass removal.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the plurality of restorative objects comprise at least one object selected from the group consisting of crown, veneer, root canal, and implant.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein evaluating the one or more amounts of tooth mass removal for the restorative object comprises: (i) determining an initial mass and a prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth, (ii) subtracting the prepared mass from the initial mass.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth is determined based at least in part on a shape of a tooth when prepared for receiving the restorative object at the one or more evaluated restorative object positions.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is an option for a final position being considered.
24. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations comprising: identifying an initial position of a patient's teeth; determining one or more candidate orthodontic positions for the patient's teeth, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is a target position of the patient's teeth being considered; selecting a restorative object from a plurality of restorative objects to be modeled to at least one of the patient's teeth at one or more evaluated restorative object positions; evaluating one or more amounts of tooth mass removal for the restorative object corresponding to the one or more candidate orthodontic positions and the one or more evaluated restorative object positions; and determining a final amount of tooth mass removal based at least in part on a comparison of the one or more amounts of evaluated tooth mass removal.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the operations further comprise determining a final orthodontic position and a final restorative object position corresponding to the final amount of tooth mass removal.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the final amount of tooth mass removal is the minimum amount selected from the one or more amounts of evaluated tooth mass removal.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein the plurality of restorative objects comprise at least one object selected from the group consisting of crown, veneer, root canal, and implant.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein evaluating the one or more amounts of tooth mass removal for the restorative object comprises: (i) determining an initial mass and a prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth, (ii) subtracting the prepared mass from the initial mass.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the prepared mass of the at least one of the patient's teeth is determined based at least in part on a shape of a tooth when prepared for receiving the restorative object at the one or more evaluated restorative object positions.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 24, wherein each of the one or more candidate orthodontic positions is an option for a final position being considered.
</claims>
</document>
