<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J5/00,B25J9/16,G01C25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INVIA ROBOTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELAZARY LIOR
PARKS, II, DANIEL FRANK
VOORHIES, RANDOLPH CHARLES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72921206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Isolated and Environmental Anomaly Detection and Correction Using a Distributed Set of Robots
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are robots that autonomously detect and correct individualized anomalies resulting from deviations in the sensors and/or actuators of individual robots, and environmental anomalies resulting from deviations in the environment elements that the robots rely on or use in the execution of different tasks. To do so, a robot may receive a task, may determine expected kinematics that include expected activations of a set of sensors and actuators by which the robot executes the task, may activate the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics, may track the actual kinematics resulting from activating the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics and continuing the activations until detecting one or more environment elements signaling completion of the task, and may adjust one or more sensors, actuators, or environment elements in response to the actual kinematics deviating from the expected kinematics.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising: receiving a task at a particular robot; determining expected kinematics of the particular robot for executing the task, wherein the expected kinematics comprise expected activations of a set of sensors and actuators by which the particular robot executes the task; activating the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics; tracking actual kinematics of the particular robot while activating the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics and continuing the activations until detecting one or more environment elements signaling completion of the task; and adjusting one of the set of sensors and actuators of the particular robot or the one or more environment elements in response to the actual kinematics deviating from the expected kinematics.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving expected kinematics and actual kinematics from a previously executed task by a robot using the same one or more environment elements in executing the previously expected task.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: detecting an individualized anomaly in response to the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics from the previously executed task matching, and the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics of the particular robot deviating by at least a threshold amount; and wherein the adjusting comprises: selecting a particular sensor or actuator from the set of sensors and actuators that performs unexpectedly; and modifying operations of the particular sensor or actuator based on the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics of the particular robot.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the modifying comprises: performing a reconfiguration, recalibration, or repositioning of the particular sensor or actuator.
5. The method of claim 3 further comprising: detecting an environmental anomaly in response to the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics from the previously executed task deviating by a threshold amount of the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics of the particular robot; and wherein the adjusting comprises: selecting a particular environment element from the one or more environment elements that provides unexpected information; and using one or more sensors and actuators of the particular robot to reconfigure, recalibrate, or reposition the particular environment element based on the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics of the particular robot.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: detecting the one or more environment elements at different locations within a site using at least one of a camera, wireless radio, or other sensors of the set of sensors and actuators.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the expected kinematics comprises: selecting the set of sensors and actuators from a plurality of available sensors and actuators of the particular robot based on a set of operations involved in completing the task; and computing the expected activations with which the particular robot completes the set of operations based on a prior calibration of the set of sensors and actuators, the prior calibration specifying expected operation execution of each sensor and actuator of the set of sensors and actuators.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the one or more environment elements comprises: detecting a particular environment element that is misplaced relative to an expected position; engaging an object associated with the particular environment element using an actuator of the particular robot; and repositioning the object to align the particular environment element relative to the expected position.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: distributing the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics from the particular robots to at least one remote device or another robot aggregating expected kinematics and actual kinematics from other tasks.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: detecting the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics in response to detecting the one or more environment elements before completing each of the expected activations, or in response to detecting the one or more environment elements after additional activations in addition to the expected activations.
11. A robot comprising: a plurality of actuators; a plurality of sensors; a wireless radio a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a set of processor-executable instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the set of processor-executable instructions, wherein executing the set of processor-executable instructions causes the one or more processors to: receive a task; determine expected kinematics of the robot for executing the task, wherein the expected kinematics comprise expected activations of a set of the plurality of sensors and the plurality of actuators by which the robot executes the task; activate the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics; track actual kinematics of the robot while activating the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics and continuing the activations until detecting one or more environment elements signaling completion of the task; and adjust one of the set of sensors and actuators of the robot or the one or more environment elements in response to the actual kinematics deviating from the expected kinematics.
12. The robot of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions further include processor-executable instructions to: receive expected kinematics and actual kinematics from a previously executed task that involved using the same one or more environment elements.
13. The robot of claim 12, wherein the processor-executable instructions further include processor-executable instructions to: detect an individualized anomaly in response to the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics from the previously executed task matching, and the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics of the robot deviating; and wherein the processor-executable instructions to adjust further include processorexecutable instructions to: select a particular sensor or actuator from the set of sensors and actuators that performs unexpectedly; and modify operations of the particular sensor or actuator based on the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics of the robot.
14. The robot of claim 13, wherein the processor-executable instructions to modify further include processor-executable instructions to: perform a reconfiguration, recalibration, or repositioning of the particular sensor or actuator.
15. The robot of claim 13, wherein the processor-executable instructions further include processor-executable instructions to: detect an environmental anomaly in response to the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics from the previously executed task deviating by a threshold amount of the expected kinematics and the actual kinematics of the robot; and wherein the processor-executable instructions to adjust further include processorexecutable instructions to: select a particular environment element from the one or more environment elements that provides unexpected information; and use one or more sensors and actuators of the robot to reconfigure, recalibrate, or reposition the particular environment element based on the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics of the robot.
16. The robot of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions to activate the set of sensors include processor-executable instructions to collect information from the one or more environment elements and the set of actuators of the robot using the set of sensors; and wherein the processor-executable instructions to activate the set of actuators include processor-executable instructions to produce physical movements via activation of the set of actuators.
17. The robot of claim 11, wherein the processor-executable instructions further include processor-executable instructions to: select the set of sensors and actuators from the plurality of sensors and the plurality of actuators based on a set of operations involved in completing the task; and compute the expected activations with which the robot completes the set of operations based on a prior calibration of the set of sensors and actuators, the prior calibration specifying expected operation execution of each sensor and actuator of the set of sensors and actuators.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing a set of processor-executable instructions, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a task; determine expected kinematics of a robot for executing the task, wherein the expected kinematics comprise expected activations of a set of sensors and actuators by which the robot executes the task; activate the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics; track actual kinematics of the robot while activating the set of sensors and actuators according to the expected kinematics and continuing the activations until detecting one or more environment elements signaling completion of the task; and adjust one of the set of sensors and actuators of the robot or the one or more environment elements in response to the actual kinematics deviating from the expected kinematics.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the processor-executable instructions to adjust the one or more environment elements include processor-executable instructions to: detect a particular environment element that is misplaced relative to an expected position; engage an object associated with the particular environment element using an actuator of the robot; and reposition the object to align the particular environment element relative to the expected position.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the processor-executable instructions to adjust the set of sensors and actuators include processor-executable instructions to: select a particular sensor or actuator from the set of sensors and actuators that performs unexpectedly; and modify operations of the particular sensor or actuator based on the deviation between the actual kinematics and the expected kinematics of the particular robot.
</claims>
</document>
