<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, CORVILLE O.
DELIMA, ROBERTO
CONTRERAS, DAVID
MAHAJAN, KRISHNA
SEKAR, KANDHAN
MWARABU, CHRIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72607919
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING MATRICES
</title>

<abstract>
A phrase may be received that includes a plurality of tokens in a natural language format. A plurality of levels relating to dependencies between tokens of the plurality of tokens within the phrase is determined. A matrix structure is generated for the phrase. The matrix structure utilizes a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns to store data of the phrase. The plurality of rows and the plurality of columns each indicate one of an order of tokens of the plurality of tokens or levels of the plurality of levels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for organizing tokens of a phrase of a corpus of phrases, the method comprising: receiving a phrase that includes a plurality of tokens in a natural language format, wherein the plurality of tokens includes words of the phrase; determining a plurality of levels relating to dependencies between tokens of the plurality of tokens within the phrase; and generating, for the phrase, a matrix structure that utilizes a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns to store data of the phrase, wherein the plurality of rows and the plurality of columns each indicate one of an order of tokens of the plurality of tokens or levels of the plurality of levels.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of columns indicates the order of tokens of the plurality of tokens and the plurality of rows indicates the levels of the plurality of levels.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining, using natural language processing (NLP) techniques, that a token of the plurality of tokens is a trigger that changes a meaning of other tokens of the plurality of tokens.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising determining, using NLP techniques, a span of tokens of the plurality of tokens for which a meaning is changed by the trigger.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each token of the plurality of tokens is in a unique cell of the matrix structure.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each column of the matrix structure includes only a single cell of data on the phrase.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the matrix structure is created such that each column stores a single token of the plurality of tokens.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the matrix structure indicates syntactical information on each token of the phrase.
9. A computer-implemented method for organizing tokens of a phrase of a corpus of phrases, the method comprising: receiving a phrase that includes a plurality of tokens in a natural language format, wherein the plurality of tokens includes words of the phrase; generating a parse tree data structure for the phrase, the parse tree data structure includes a plurality of levels relating to dependencies within the phrase; and generating, for the phrase using the parse tree data structure, a matrix structure that utilizes a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns to store data of the phrase, wherein the plurality of rows and the plurality of columns each indicate one of an order of tokens of the plurality of tokens or levels of the plurality of levels.
10. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory in communication with the processor, the memory containing program instructions that, when executed by the processor, are configured to cause the processor to: receive a phrase that includes a plurality of tokens in a natural language format, wherein the plurality of tokens includes words of the phrase; determine a plurality of levels relating to dependencies between tokens of the plurality of tokens within the phrase; and generate, for the phrase, a matrix structure that utilizes a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns to store data of the phrase, wherein the plurality of rows and the plurality of columns each indicate one of an order of tokens of the plurality of tokens or levels of the plurality of levels.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of columns indicates the order of tokens of the plurality of tokens and the plurality of rows indicates the levels of the plurality of levels.
12. The system of claim 10, the memory further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to determine, using natural language processing (NLP) techniques, that a token of the plurality of tokens is a trigger that changes a meaning of other tokens of the plurality of tokens.
13. The system of claim 12, the memory further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to determine, using NLP techniques, a span of tokens of the plurality of tokens for which a meaning is changed by the trigger.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein each token of the plurality of tokens is in a unique cell of the matrix structure.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein each column of the matrix structure includes only a single cell of data on the phrase.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the matrix structure is created such that each column stores a single token of the plurality of tokens.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the matrix structure indicates syntactical information on each token of the phrase.
18. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to: receive a phrase that includes a plurality of tokens in a natural language format, wherein the plurality of tokens includes words of the phrase; determine a plurality of levels relating to dependencies between tokens of the plurality of tokens within the phrase; and generate, for the phrase, a matrix structure that utilizes a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns to store data of the phrase, wherein the plurality of rows and the plurality of columns each indicate one of an order of tokens of the plurality of tokens or levels of the plurality of levels.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the plurality of columns indicates the order of tokens of the plurality of tokens and the plurality of rows indicates the levels of the plurality of levels.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, the computer readable storage medium further comprising program instructions that, when executed by the computer, cause the computer to determine, using natural language processing (NLP) techniques, that a token of the plurality of tokens is a trigger that changes a meaning of other tokens of the plurality of tokens.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, the computer readable storage medium further comprising program instructions that, when executed by the computer, cause the computer to determine, using NLP techniques, a span of tokens of the plurality of tokens for which a meaning is changed by the trigger.
22. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein each token of the plurality of tokens is in a unique cell of the matrix structure.
23. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein each column of the matrix structure includes only a single cell of data on the phrase.
24. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the matrix structure is created such that each column stores a single token of the plurality of tokens.
25. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the matrix structure indicates syntactical information on each token of the phrase.
</claims>
</document>
