<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CABLE TELEVISION LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOERINGER, STEVEN J.
THAKORE, DARSHAK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586538
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ENHANCED NETWORK DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for detecting and profiling endpoints of a computer network is provided. The system includes a first computing device including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device. The first computing device is in communication with a computer network. The at least one memory device stores a plurality of instructions, which when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to receive a plurality of packets transmitted to the computer network, determine an identity of a first end point device associated with the plurality of packets, determine a behavior pattern for the first end point device based on the plurality of packets, and generate a synthetic profile for the first end point device based on the identity and the behavior pattern.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting and profiling endpoints of a computer network comprising a first computing device comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, wherein the first computing device is in communication with the computer network, and wherein the at least one memory device stores a plurality of instructions, which when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to: receive a plurality of packets transmitted to the computer network; determine an identity of a first end point device associated with the plurality of packets; determine a behavior pattern for the first end point device based on the plurality of packets; and generate a synthetic profile for the first end point device based on the identity and the behavior pattern.
2. The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive a plurality of data associated with the first end point device from one or more external data sources; and update the synthetic profile based on the plurality of data.
3. The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to detect a second end point device based on the plurality of packets.
4. The system in accordance with claim 3, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: determine an second identity of a second end point device associated with the plurality of packets; determine a second behavior pattern for the second end point device based on the plurality of packets; and generate a second synthetic profile for second first end point device based on the second identity and the second behavior pattern.
5. The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive a second plurality of packets from the first end point device; and update the synthetic profile based on the second plurality of packets.
6. The system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive the plurality from an intercept point computer device.
7. The system in accordance with claim 6, wherein the intercept point computer device is a gateway associated with the first end point device.
8. The system in accordance with claim 6, wherein the intercept point computer device is associated with the computer network and determines whether or not the first end point device may access the computer network.
9. The system in accordance with claim 6, wherein the intercept point computer device is programmed to: receive a packet from the first end point device; and determine whether to route the packet to its destination based on the analysis.
10. The system in accordance with claim 9, wherein the intercept point computer device is further programmed to: retrieve the synthetic profile associated with the first end point device; compare the packet to the synthetic profile; and determine whether or not to route the packet based on the comparison.
11. The system in accordance with claim 9, wherein the intercept point computer device is further programmed to: receive a device profile associated with the first end point device; retrieve the synthetic profile associated with the first end point device; compare the device profile to the synthetic profile; and determine whether or not to route the packet based on the comparison.
12. A method for detecting and profiling endpoints of a computer network comprising: receiving a plurality of packets transmitted to the computer network; determining an identity of a first end point device associated with the plurality of packets; determining a behavior pattern for the first end point device based on the plurality of packets; and generating a synthetic profile for the first end point device based on the identity and the behavior pattern.
13. The method in accordance with claim 12 further comprising: receiving a plurality of data associated with the first end point device from one or more external data sources; and updating the synthetic profile based on the plurality of data.
14. The method in accordance with claim 12 further comprising detecting a second end point device based on the plurality of packets.
15. The method in accordance with claim 14 further comprising: determining an second identity of a second end point device associated with the plurality of packets; determining a second behavior pattern for the second end point device based on the plurality of packets; and generating a second synthetic profile for second first end point device based on the second identity and the second behavior pattern.
16. The method in accordance with claim 12 further comprising: receiving a second plurality of packets from the first end point device; and updating the synthetic profile based on the second plurality of packets.
17. The method in accordance with claim 12 further comprising receiving the plurality from an intercept point computer device, wherein the intercept point computer device is one of a gateway associated with the first end point device and a computer device associated with the computer network that determines whether or not the first end point device may access the computer network.
18. The method in accordance with claim 17 further comprising: receiving a packet from the first end point device; and determining whether to route the packet to its destination based on the analysis.
19. The method in accordance with claim 18 further comprising: retrieving the synthetic profile associated with the first end point device; comparing the packet to the synthetic profile; and determining whether or not to route the packet based on the comparison.
20. The method in accordance with claim 18 further comprising: receiving a device profile associated with the first end point device; retrieving the synthetic profile associated with the first end point device; comparing the device profile to the synthetic profile; and determining whether or not to route the packet based on the comparison.
</claims>
</document>
