<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/10,G06F40/30,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Sifleet, Todd
Mertz, Madollyn
Loken, Torbjorn
Litlingo Technologies Inc.
BRINIG, KEVIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
Sifleet, Todd
Mertz, Madollyn
Loken, Torbjorn
BRINIG, KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR RECOMMENDING AND IMPLEMENTING COMMUNICATION OPTIMIZATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Examples disclosed herein relate to a system including: one or more processors and at least one memory device where the one or more processors may receive communication data and convert the received communication data into a machine representation of the received communication data. The one or more processors may utilize one or more annotators with the machine representation of the received communication data to generate an annotated machine representation of the received communication data. The one or more processors may compare the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to one or more rule engines and transmit an initiation action signal based on the comparison of the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to the one or more rule engines.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors and at least one memory device; the one or more processors configured to receive communication data and convert the received communication data into a machine representation of the received communication data, the one or more processors configured to utilize one or more annotators with the machine representation of the received communication data to generate an annotated machine representation of the received communication data, the one or more processors configured to compare the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to one or more rule engines; and the one or more processors configured to transmit an initiation action signal based on the comparison of the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to the one or more rule engines.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the initiation action signal implements a real time action.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the real time action includes at least one of a language suggestion, a warning, a quarantining of one or more messages, or a disabling of a communication device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the initiation action signal implements a retroactive action.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the retroactive action includes at least one of a first time period report, an index communication list, a historical report, a training class option, a real-time training class, or a scheduled training class.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the initiation action signal implements a predictive action.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the predictive action includes at least one of a language suggestion, a warning, a quarantining of one or more messages, an approval level requirement, a disabling of the one or more messages, or a disabling of a communication device.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein based on the predictive action being one of the quarantining of one or more messages, the approval level requirement, the disabling of the one or more messages, or the disabling of the communication device, the one or more processors are configured to transmit an approval requirement signal to a review process.
9. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors and at least one memory device; the one or more processors configured to receive communication data, the one or more processors configured to convert the received communication data into a machine representation of the received communication data, the one or more processors configured to obtain data from at least one of a contractor data source, a corporation data source, a court data source, a legal data source, a social capital data source, a human resources data source, a contract data source, Internet data, one or more sensors, one or more cameras, one or more body devices, one or more microphones, or a governmental data source, the one or more processors configured to utilize one or more annotators with the machine representation of the received communication data to generated an annotated machine representation of the received communication data, the one or more processors configured to compare the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to one or more rule engines; and the one or more processors configured to transmit an initiation action signal based on the comparison of the annotated machine representation of the received communication data to the one or more rule engines.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a first annotator is a gender of a sender of the communication data.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first annotator was derived from data received from the human resources data source.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a second annotator is a country of origin of a first recipient of the communication data.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the second annotator was derived from an Internet Protocol address.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a third annotator is based on one or more characteristics of a message in the communication data.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the one or more characteristics of the message are determined via an annotator protocol applied to the communication data.
16. A device comprising; one or more processors; at least one memory device including one or more modules; a transceiver configured to receive communication data; the one or more processors configured to dissect the received communication data into one or more elements where the one or more elements are a subset of one or more communication elements; the one or more processors configured to obtain data from at least one of a contractor data source, a corporation data source, a court data source, a legal data source, a social capital data source, a human resources data source, a contract data source, Internet data, one or more sensors, one or more cameras, one or more body devices, one or more microphones, or a governmental data source, the one or more processors configured to utilize one or more annotators with the one or more elements to generated an annotated representation of the one or more elements, the one or more processors configured to compare the annotated representation of the one or more elements to one or more rule engines; and the one or more processors configured to transmit an initiation action signal based on the comparison of the annotated representation of the one or more elements to the one or more rule engines.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the one or more processors are configured to initiate one or more actions from the device based on at least one of a time of day, a device location, a device type, a recipient data, a message type, a sender type, a sender's history, a sender's data, the sender type and sender location, a recipient type, a recipient's history, a recipient's data, or the receipt type and a recipient location.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the one or more actions includes restricting communications which includes at least one of disabling the device, blocking a communication package, or transmitting the communication package to an approval level.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the communication package is the received communication data.
20. The device of claim 18, wherein the communication package is a subset of the received communication data.
</claims>
</document>
