<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KI, YANG SEOK
LEE, JOO HWAN
POURGHASSEMI, BEHNAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71608978
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PLATFORM FOR CONCURRENT EXECUTION OF GPU OPERATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Computing resources may be optimally allocated for a multipath neural network using a multipath neural network analyzer that includes an interface and a processing device. The interface receives a multipath neural network. The processing device generates the multipath neural network to include one or more layers of a critical path through the multipath neural network that are allocated a first allocation of computing resources that are available to execute the multipath neural network. The critical path limits throughput of the multipath neural network. The first allocation of computing resources reduces an execution time of the multipath neural network to be less than a baseline execution time of a second allocation of computing resources for the multipath neural network. The first allocation of computing resources for a first layer of the critical path is different than the second allocation of computing resources for the first layer of the critical path.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multipath neural network, comprising: two or more paths through the multipath neural network, a first path comprising one or more layers, the first path comprising a critical path through the multipath neural network that limits throughput of the multipath neural network, a first layer of the critical path being allocated a first allocation of computing resources that are available to execute the multipath neural network, the first allocation of computing resources reducing an execution time of the multipath neural network to be less than a baseline execution time of a second allocation of computing resources for the multipath neural network, the first allocation of computing resources for the first layer being different than the second allocation of computing resources for the first layer.
2. The multipath neural network of claim 1, wherein the first allocation of computing resources for the first layer is allocated prior to execution the multipath neural network.
3. The multipath neural network of claim 1, wherein the first allocation of computing resources for the first layer is allocated during execution of the multipath neural network.
4. The multipath neural network of claim 1, wherein computing resources that are available to execute the multipath neural network comprise a number of compute unit cores, a memory size and a memory bandwidth.
5. The multipath neural network of claim 1, wherein the critical path includes a layer that provides a convolution function.
6. A method to allocate resources to layers of a multipath neural network, the method comprising: determining a baseline execution time for a multipath neural network based on a first computing-resource allocation of computing resources to the multipath neural network that are available to execute the multipath neural network, the multipath neural network comprising a two or more paths through the multipath neural network; iteratively determining an execution time for the two or more paths through the multipath neural network for one or more second computing-resource allocations for the two or more paths, each second computing-resource allocation being different from the first computing-resource allocation; and identifying a second computing-resource allocation for a first layer in a first path that provides an overall execution time for the multipath neural network that is less than an overall baseline execution time for the multipath neural network.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the overall baseline execution time for the multipath neural network corresponds to an execution time through a critical path of the multipath neural network that limits throughput of the multipath neural network.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising allocating the second computing-resource allocation for the first layer in the first path identified to provide the overall execution time for the multipath neural network that is less than the overall baseline execution time for the multipath neural network.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising allocating prior to executing the multipath neural network the second computing-resource allocation for the first layer in the first path identified.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising allocating during execution of the multipath neural network the second computing-resource allocation for the first layer in the first path identified.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein identifying the second computing-resource allocation further comprises receiving a selection of the second computing-resource allocation from a user.
12. The method of claim 6, wherein computing-resources that are available to execute the multipath neural network comprise a number of compute unit cores, a memory size and a memory bandwidth.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein at least one of the two or more paths includes a layer that provides a convolution function.
14. A multipath neural network analyzer, comprising: an interface that receives a multipath neural network, the multipath neural network comprising two or more paths through the multipath neural network and a first path of the two or more paths comprising one or more layers; and a processing device that generates the multipath neural network comprising one or more layers of a critical path through the multipath neural network being allocated a first allocation of computing resources that are available to execute the multipath neural network, the critical path limiting throughput of the multipath neural network, the first allocation of computing resources reducing an execution time of the multipath neural network to be less than a baseline execution time of a second allocation of computing resources for the multipath neural network, the first allocation of computing resources for a first layer of the critical path being different than the second allocation of computing resources for the first layer of the critical path.
15. The multipath neural network of claim 14, wherein the computing resources available to execute the multipath neural network comprise a number of compute unit cores, a memory size and a memory bandwidth.
16. The multipath neural network analyzer of claim 14, wherein the processing device is further configured to: determine a baseline execution time two or more paths through the multipath neural network based on the second allocation of computing resources to execute the multipath neural network, iteratively determine an execution time for the two or more paths through the multipath neural network for at least one third allocation of computing resources for the two or more paths, each third allocation of computing resources being different from the second allocation of computing resources; and identify the third allocation of computing resources that provides the execution time for the multipath neural network that is less than the baseline execution time for the multipath neural network.
17. The multipath neural network analyzer of claim 16, wherein the baseline execution time for the multipath neural network corresponds to an execution time through the critical path of the multipath neural network for the second allocation of computing resources for the critical path.
18. The multipath neural network analyzer of claim 16, wherein the processing device is further configured to allocate the third allocation of computing resources for the critical path to be the first allocation of computing resources for the critical path.
19. The multipath neural network analyzer of claim 18, wherein the processing device is configured to allocate the first allocation of computing resources for the critical path prior to the multipath neural network being executed.
20. The multipath neural network analyzer of claim 18, wherein the processing device is configured to allocate the first allocation of computing resources for the critical path during execution of the multipath neural network.
</claims>
</document>
