<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B6/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BYAGOWI, AHMAD
HERRING, MARIE K.
RASKAR, RAMESH
YAKUBOVA, NAFISSA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67140201
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HAPTIC MESSAGE DELIVERY
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes determining if notifications to be sent to user would benefit from being delivered by haptic stimulation under a current context. This determination may be made by accessing historical notification data of how the user previously responded to notifications in a similar context, and ranking conversion scores for each of one or more haptic-enabled delivery channels, wherein a conversion score indicates a probability of the user interacting with the notification. The most appropriate haptic message-delivery channel is selected based on the scores and historical data, and the notification is sent accordingly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by a computing device: accessing a notification to be sent to a user; determining a haptic pattern associated with the notification based at least on a sender of the notification; and sending the notification to a first haptic-enabled delivery channel for a delivery of the notification using haptic stimulation to the user's skin, wherein the applied haptic stimulation corresponds to the determined haptic pattern.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the haptic pattern associated with the notification comprises: accessing a mapping of predefined personal-identification haptic patterns to notification-sender identifiers; and determining a predefined personal-identification haptic pattern corresponding to an identifier associated with the sender of the notification based on the mapping.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that a current delivery context of the user; retrieving, from a history service: historical notification data associated with the user with respect to the current delivery context of the notification; and ranking conversion scores for each of one or more haptic-enabled delivery channels, wherein a conversion score indicates a probability of the user interacting with the notification; determining a notification policy to apply to the notification based at least in part on the notification, the historical notification data, the conversion scores, or the current delivery context of the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first haptic-enabled delivery channel is selected among one or more haptic-enabled delivery channels available for the delivery of the notification using haptic stimulation to the user's skin based on the determined notification policy.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the notification policy is further based on a priority setting for the notification.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein an intensity of the applied haptic stimulation to the user's skin is dependent upon the priority setting.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the applied haptic stimulation includes at least one of an applied elevated temperature or lowered temperature from an ambient temperature.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the applied haptic simulation includes at least one of a distributed pressure force, a pin-point force, a vibration, a scratching sensation, or a tracing sensation to the user's skin.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the tracing sensation forms patterns in accordance with the notification, wherein the tracing sensation is achieved by an actuator that applies a moving stimulation to the user's skin, and wherein the actuator is within a housing.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the actuator is an electromechanical solenoid having an armature directed to, retract from, and extend towards the user's skin.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the actuator is a blower that selectively applies air pressure to the user's skin.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the actuator comprises ferrofluid that changes shape from a rest shape to an active shape in response to an applied magnetic field, and wherein the ferrofluid applies pressure to the user's skin when in its active shape.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein: the housing includes an array of individually actuatable electromagnets; the ferrofluid being trapped between the array of electromagnets and a flexible film that faces the user's skin; and a position of the active shape of the ferrofluid corresponds to a position of an actuated electromagnet.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the housing provides dual-axis planar movement control of the actuator, the housing including two pairs of opposing arm-controllers having respective arms extending toward each other and holding the actuator between them in a gantry structure, a first of the two pairs of opposing arm-controllers providing first linear movement of the actuator along a first axis of motion, and a second of the two pairs of opposing arm-controllers providing second linear movement of the actuator along a second axis of motion perpendicular to the first axis of motion.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the housing provides planar movement control of the actuator by use of a spirograph.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the spirograph includes a first gear wheel engaged to interior teeth of a second gear wheel, the actuator being coupled to a first perimeter region of the first gear wheel and moving in accord with movement of the first gear wheel, wherein the first gear wheel is engaged to a first rotary motor at a position off-center from, and within the perimeter of, the first gear wheel.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the haptic pattern includes an ideogram representation of the sender of the notification.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the haptic pattern includes a letter, a number, or a geometric shape.
19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software comprising instructions operable when executed to: access a notification to be sent to a user; determine a haptic pattern associated with the notification based at least on a sender of the notification; and send the notification to a first haptic-enabled delivery channel for a delivery of the notification using haptic stimulation to the user's skin, wherein the applied haptic stimulation corresponds to the determined haptic pattern.
20. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to: access a notification to be sent to a user; determine a haptic pattern associated with the notification based at least on a sender of the notification; and send the notification to a first haptic-enabled delivery channel for a delivery of the notification using haptic stimulation to the user's skin, wherein the applied haptic stimulation corresponds to the determined haptic pattern.
</claims>
</document>
