<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04L29/08,H04W4/90,H04W76/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARIA, ARTURO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66658327
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FACILITATING RESOURCE FREQUENCY MANAGEMENT FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques facilitating resource frequency management are provided. An apparatus comprises: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations. The operations comprise: receiving information indicative of an emergency condition in a defined area; and transmitting a command to a network device for the defined area to cause the base station device to send a communication for the emergency condition via a first wireless communication channel with a mobile device of mobile devices associated with a subscriber identity of respective subscriber identities assigned to provide a response to the emergency condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving information indicative of an emergency condition in a defined area, wherein the emergency condition is one of emergency conditions; and transmitting a command to a network device for the defined area to cause a base station device to switch communication for the emergency condition to a first wireless communication channel with a mobile device of mobile devices and identifying a first frequency for the mobile device to employ for a first defined application for the emergency condition and identifying a second frequency for the mobile device to employ for a second defined application for the emergency condition.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mobile device is associated with a subscriber identity of respective subscriber identities, and wherein the operations further comprise: analyzing a repository comprising data identifying the mobile devices associated with the respective subscriber identities; and based on a result of the analyzing, determining that the mobile device is a device associated with the subscriber identity of the respective subscriber identities assigned to provide the response to the emergency condition in the defined area.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the transmitting the command is based on switching from a second wireless communication channel via which the base station device was communicating with the mobile device prior to the receiving the information indicative of the emergency condition in the defined area.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first wireless communication channel is a communication channel designated for emergency response communications.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the information indicative of the emergency condition in the defined area is received by the apparatus as a result of an emergency computer executable application being initiated by the mobile device in the defined area or by a second mobile device of the mobile devices in the defined area.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the command comprises transmitting the command to the base station device to enable the mobile devices to communicate with one another via the first wireless communication channel.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise selecting the first wireless communication channel from wireless communication channels allocated for emergency response communication, and wherein the selecting is performed prior to the transmitting.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the command causes the base station device to send the communication with an instruction to provide the response to the emergency condition for a limited duration of time specified by the command.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the command causes the base station device to send the communication with an instruction to provide the response to the emergency condition for a specified application executed via the mobile device.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the command further causes the base station device to send the communication for the mobile device via a second wireless communication channel distinct from the first wireless communication channel.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the command further causes the base station device to send re-attachment information to the mobile device enabling the mobile device to re-attach to the base station device to communicate via the first wireless communication channel.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise updating a data store to comprise device identities for the mobile devices and application identities for computer executable applications being executed by the mobile devices.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the receiving the information indicative of the emergency condition comprises receiving the information via a control center device communicatively coupled to the mobile device and the apparatus.
14. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device coupled to a processor, information indicative of an emergency condition in a defined area, wherein the emergency condition is one of emergency conditions; and transmitting, by the device, a command to a network device for the defined area to cause a base station device to switch communication for the emergency condition to a first wireless communication channel with a mobile device of mobile devices and identifying a first frequency for the mobile device to employ for a first defined application for the emergency condition and identifying a second frequency for the mobile device to employ for a second defined application for the emergency condition.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the mobile device is associated with a subscriber identity of respective subscriber identities, and the method further comprising: analyzing, by the device, a store comprising data identifying the mobile devices associated with the respective subscriber identities; and based on a result of the analyzing, determining, by the device, that the mobile device is a device associated with the subscriber identity of the respective subscriber identities assigned to provide the response to the emergency condition in the defined area.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the transmitting the command is based on switching from a second wireless communication channel via which the base station device was communicating with the mobile device prior to the receiving the information indicative of the emergency condition in the defined area.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the information indicative of the emergency condition in the defined area is received by the device as a result of an emergency computer executable application being initiated by the mobile device in the defined area or by a second mobile device of the mobile devices in the defined area.
18. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of an apparatus, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving information indicative of an emergency condition in a defined area, wherein the emergency condition is one of emergency conditions; and transmitting a command to a network device for the defined area to cause a base station device to switch communication for the emergency condition to a first wireless communication channel with a mobile device of mobile devices and identifying a first frequency for the mobile device to employ for a first defined application for the emergency condition and identifying a second frequency for the mobile device to employ for a second defined application for the emergency condition.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the mobile device is associated with a subscriber identity of subscriber identities, wherein the communications are first communications, and wherein the operations further comprise: analyzing a repository comprising data identifying the mobile devices associated with the subscriber identities; and based on a result of the analyzing, determining that the mobile device is a device associated with the subscriber identity of the subscriber identities assigned to provide the response to the emergency condition in the defined area.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the transmitting the command is based on switching from a second wireless communication channel via which the base station device was communicating with the mobile device prior to the receiving the information indicative of the emergency condition in the defined area.
</claims>
</document>
