<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/00,G06T7/246,G06T7/557
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU HUI
HE, QIANG
SHI, YUHANG
LU, Jie
ZHAO, Guoguang
ZHENG, Jun'an
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515213
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING MOTION OF AN OBJECT IN IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for determining a motion of an object during imaging. The systems and methods may cause a light emission device to project a structured light onto the object, and cause a light reception device to detect light resulting from the structured light as projected onto the object and generate a plurality of measured images of the structured light based on the detected light. The systems and methods may further determine the motion of the object based on the plurality of measured images of the structured light and a reference image of the structured light.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a light emission device configured to project a structured light onto an object; a light reception device configured to detect light resulting from the structured light as projected onto the object and generate a plurality of measured images of the structured light based on the detected light; and a motion determination device configured to determine a motion of the object based on the plurality of measured images of the structured light and a reference image of the structured light.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the light emission device is disposed at a first position, and the light reception device is disposed at a second position.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a scanning device configured to acquire scanning data of the object by scanning the object; and an image reconstruction device configured to reconstruct an image of the object based on the scanning data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the image reconstruction device is configured to reconstruct the image of the object based on the scanning data and the motion of the object.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the motion of the object includes a stable motion phase; and the scanning device is configured to acquire the scanning data of the object by scanning the object during the stable motion phase.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the scanning device is configured to: adjust, based on the motion of the object, one or more scanning parameters; and acquire the scanning data by scanning, based on the adjusted one or more scanning parameters, the object.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the first position or the second position is on a scanning device.
8. The system of claim 2, further comprising a coil component, wherein: at least one of the first position or the second position is on the coil component.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein one of the first position is on the coil component, and the other is on a scanning device.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of measured images includes a plurality of pixels corresponding to a plurality of positions on the object, the reference image includes a plurality of pixels corresponding to the plurality of positions on the object, the light emission device and the light reception device satisfy a geometrical relationship, and the motion determination device is further configured to: for each measured image of the plurality of measured images, determine, based on the geometrical relationship and the measured image, a plurality of measured distances, each of the plurality of measured distances being between one of the plurality of positions and the light emission device; determine, based on the geometrical relationship and the reference image, a plurality of reference distances, each of the plurality of reference distances being between one of the plurality of positions and the light emission device; and determine a depth image corresponding to the measured image based on a plurality of differences, each of the plurality of differences being between one of the plurality of measured distances of a position of the plurality of positions and a reference distance of the same position; and determine the motion of the object based on a plurality of depth images corresponding to the plurality of measured images.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein the system includes: a plurality of light emission devices disposed at different positions, each of which is configured to project at least a portion of the structured light onto at least a portion of the object; or a plurality of light reception devices disposed at different positions, each of which is configured to detect at least a portion of the detected light.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the motion of the object includes a physiological motion of the object and a posture change of the object.
13. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one processor and at least on storage device, comprising: causing a light emission device to project a structured light onto an object; causing a light reception device to detect light resulting from the structured light as projected onto the object and generate a plurality of measured images of the structured light based on the detected light; and determining a motion of the object based on the plurality of measured images of the structured light and a reference image of the structured light.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the light emission device is disposed at a first position, and the light reception device is disposed at a second position.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein: at least one of the first position or the second position is on a coil component; or at least one of the first position or the second position is on a scanning device.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of measured images includes a plurality of pixels corresponding to a plurality of positions on the object, the reference image includes a plurality of pixels corresponding to the plurality of positions on the object, the light emission device and the light reception device satisfy a geometrical relationship, and the determining the motion of the object comprises: for each measured image of the plurality of measured images, determining, based on the geometrical relationship and the measured image, a plurality of measured distances, each of the plurality of measured distances being between one of the plurality of positions and the light emission device; determining, based on the geometrical relationship and the reference image, a plurality of reference distances, each of the plurality of reference distances being between one of the plurality of positions and the light emission device; and determining a depth image corresponding to the measured image based on a plurality of differences, each of the plurality of differences being between one of the plurality of measured distances of a position of the plurality of positions and a reference distance of the same position; and determining the motion of the object based on a plurality of depth images corresponding to the plurality of measured images.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the motion includes a stable motion phase and an unstable motion phase, and the method further comprises: causing a scanning device to acquire scanning data of the object by scanning the object during the stable motion phase; and reconstructing an image of the object based on the scanning data.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the motion includes a stable motion phase and an unstable motion phase, and the method further comprises: causing a scanning device to acquire scanning data of the object by scanning the object; extracting a portion of the scanning data corresponding to the stable motion phase; and reconstructing an image of the object based on the extracted portion of the scanning data.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the motion of the object includes a physiological motion of the object and a posture change of the object.
20. A system, comprising: at least one storage device including a set of instructions; at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to cause the system to perform operations including: causing a light emission device to project a structured light onto an object; causing a light reception device to detect light resulting from the structured light as projected onto the object and generate a plurality of measured images of the structured light based on the detected light; and determining a motion of the object based on the plurality of measured images of the structured light and a reference image of the structured light.
</claims>
</document>
