<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G01C22/00,G01P15/00,G06F1/16,G06F1/3206,G06F1/3234,G06F3/01,G06F3/048,G09G5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FITBIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
YUEN, SHELTEN GEE JAO
PANTHER, HEIKO GERNOT ALBERT
PANTELOPOULOS, ALEXANDROS A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54209733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, SYSTEMS, AND APPARATUSES TO UPDATE SCREEN CONTENT RESPONSIVE TO USER GESTURES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, an electronic device to be worn on a user's forearm includes a display and a set of one or more sensors that provide sensor data. In one aspect, a device may detect, using sensor data obtained from a set of sensors, that a first activity state of a user is active. The device may determine, while the first activity state is active, that the sensor data matches a watch check rule associated with the first activity state. Responsive to the detected match, the device may cause a change in visibility of the display.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a display; a set of sensors configured to generate sensor data, the sensor data describing a user wearing the electronic device; a set of one or more processors coupled to the display and the set of sensors; a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium coupled to the set of one or more processors and having stored therein instructions which, when executed by the set of one or more processors, cause the set of one or more processors to perform: determining that a sleep activity state of the user is active based at least in part on the sensor data; activating a sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state based on the sleep activity state of the user being active, wherein activation of the sleep watch check rule disables visible changes to the display in response to watch check events detected by the electronic device; determining at least one occurrence of a watch check event based at least in part on the sensor data, the watch check event being associated with a watch check rule that causes a visible change to the display; determining that the sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state is active; and preventing the at least one occurrence of the watch check event from causing the visible change to the display until detection of at least one enabling event.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the watch check event corresponds to at least one particular type of activity indicating the user attempted to view the display of the electronic device.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of a pre-defined number of watch check events based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to an electronic alarm associated with the electronic device being set to activate within a pre-defined time period.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of motion indicating the user is awake based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of the user pressing a manual interface associated with the electronic device.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the manual interface corresponds to at least one of: a button, a touch interface, and a tap sensor.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions which, when executed by the set of processors, further cause the set of processors to perform: detecting the at least one enabling event based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device; and deactivating the sleep watch check rule based at least in part on the detection of the at least one enabling event.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the instructions further include instructions which, when executed by the set of processors, further cause the set of processors to perform: determining at least one occurrence of a second watch check event based at least in part on the sensor data, the second watch check event being associated with a watch check rule that causes a visible change to the display; determining that the sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state is inactive; and causing the visible change to the display based at least in part on the at least one occurrence of the second watch check event.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein: the set of sensors includes one or more of: a motion sensor or a heart rate monitor, and the sensor data for detecting that the sleep activity state of the user is active includes one or more selected from the group consisting of: data generated by the heart rate monitor, data generated by the motion sensor, and data generated by the heart rate monitor and the motion sensor.
11. A method, comprising: determining, by an electronic device, that a sleep activity state of a user wearing the electronic device is active based at least in part on sensor data generated by a set of sensors associated with the electronic device; activating, by the electronic device, a sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state based on the sleep activity state of the user being active, wherein activation of the sleep watch check rule disables visible changes to a display associated with the electronic device in response to watch check events detected by the electronic device; determining, by the electronic device, at least one occurrence of a watch check event based at least in part on the sensor data, the watch check event being associated with a watch check rule that causes a visible change to the display; determining, by the electronic device, that the sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state is active; and preventing, by the electronic device, the at least one occurrence of the watch check event from causing the visible change to the display until detection of at least one enabling event.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the watch check event corresponds to at least one particular type of activity indicating the user attempted to view the display of the electronic device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of a pre-defined number of watch check events based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to an electronic alarm associated with the electronic device being set to activate within a pre-defined time period.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of motion indicating the user is awake based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of an electronic device, cause the electronic device to perform a method comprising: determining that a sleep activity state of a user wearing the electronic device is active based at least in part on sensor data generated by a set of sensors associated with the electronic device; activating a sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state based on the sleep activity state of the user being active, wherein activation of the sleep watch check rule disables visible changes to a display associated with the electronic device in response to watch check events detected by the electronic device; determining at least one occurrence of a watch check event based at least in part on the sensor data, the watch check event being associated with a watch check rule that causes a visible change to the display; determining that the sleep watch check rule associated with the sleep activity state is active; and preventing the at least one occurrence of the watch check event from causing the visible change to the display until detection of at least one enabling event.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the watch check event corresponds to at least one particular type of activity indicating the user attempted to view the display of the electronic device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of a pre-defined number of watch check events based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to an electronic alarm associated with the electronic device being set to activate within a pre-defined time period.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one enabling event corresponds to a detection of motion indicating the user is awake based at least in part on the sensor data generated by the set of sensors associated with the electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
