<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/338,G06F16/9032,G06F16/9535,G06F40/284,G06F40/40,G06F9/451,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
MORIN, YAO
LUNT, JONATHAN
CESSNA, JOSEPH B.
DAIANU, MADELAINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66816069
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DOMAIN SPECIFIC NATURAL LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING OF CUSTOMER INTENT IN SELF-HELP
</title>

<abstract>
Method and apparatus for providing a personalized self-support service to a user of an online application coupled with an online community forum. Embodiments include obtaining a plurality of questions from the online community forum and obtaining historical user data. Embodiments further include identifying one or more part-of-speech words in the plurality of questions and generating a high-dimensional vector for each question of the plurality of questions based on a frequency of the one or more part-of-speech words. Embodiments further include identifying one or more user features of the plurality of users based on the historical user data and establishing, based on the historical user data, one or more statistical correlations between user features and part-of-speech words. Embodiments further include training a predictive model based on the one or more statistical correlations. Embodiments further include using the predictive model to predict to provide one or more relevant questions to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing a personalized self-support service to a user of an online application coupled with an online community forum, comprising: obtaining a plurality of questions from an online community forum; obtaining historical user data comprising: clickstream data of a plurality of users who accessed at least one of the plurality of questions; profile data of the plurality of users; and application context data of the plurality of users; identifying a part-of-speech word in the plurality of questions from the online community forum; generating a plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprising a respective multi-dimensional vector for each respective question of the plurality of questions based on a frequency of the part-of-speech word in each respective question of the plurality of questions; identifying one or more user features of the plurality of users based on the historical user data; establishing one or more statistical correlations, based on the historical user data, between at least one of the one or more user features that is based on the application context data and the part-of-speech word; determining, using the one or more statistical correlations, part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users; predicting, using the one or more statistical correlations and the part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users, part-of-speech words relevant to the user of the online application based on at least one user feature of the user of the online application; generating a multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application based on the predicted part-of-speech words relevant to the user; computing a plurality of similarity metrics comprising a similarity metric between each of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions and the multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application; ranking the multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions in order of relevance based on the plurality of similarity metrics; and providing one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via a user interface of the online application based on the ranking.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application based on the ranking comprises identifying the one or more relevant questions from an online community forum that are represented by one or more of the multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each one of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprises weights associated with the part-of-speech word based on frequency.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying the part-of-speech word comprises identifying the part-of-speech word in titles of the plurality of questions from the online community forum.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing one or more answers to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application comprises selecting the one or more relevant questions based on a maximum number of displayed questions.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the online application comprises a tax preparation application and wherein the application context data comprises one or more of: electronic filing status data; tab data; and sub-tab data.
8. A system comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to perform a method for providing a personalized self-support service to a user of an online application coupled with an online community forum, the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of questions from an online community forum; obtaining historical user data comprising: clickstream data of a plurality of users who accessed at least one of the plurality of questions; profile data of the plurality of users; and application context data of the plurality of users; identifying a part-of-speech word in the plurality of questions from the online community forum; generating a plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprising a respective multi-dimensional vector for each respective question of the plurality of questions based on a frequency of the part-of-speech word in each respective question of the plurality of questions; identifying one or more user features of the plurality of users based on the historical user data; establishing one or more statistical correlations, based on the historical user data, between at least one of the one or more user features that is based on the application context data and the part-of-speech word; determining, using the one or more statistical correlations, part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users; predicting, using the one or more statistical correlations and the part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users, part-of-speech words relevant to the user of the online application based on at least one user feature of the user of the online application; generating a multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application based on the predicted part-of-speech words relevant to the user; computing a plurality of similarity metrics comprising a similarity metric between each of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions and the multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application; ranking the multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions in order of relevance based on the plurality of similarity metrics; and providing one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via a user interface of the online application based on the ranking.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application based on the ranking comprises identifying the one or more relevant questions from an online community forum that are represented by one or more of the multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein each one of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprises weights associated with the part-of-speech word based on frequency.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein identifying the part-of-speech word comprises identifying the part-of-speech word in titles of the plurality of questions from the online community forum.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the method further comprises providing one or more answers to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application comprises selecting the one or more relevant questions based on a maximum number of displayed questions.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the online application comprises a tax preparation application and wherein the application context data comprises one or more of: electronic filing status data; tab data; and sub-tab data.
15. A computer-implemented method for providing a personalized self-support service to a user of an online application coupled with an online community forum, comprising: obtaining a plurality of questions from an online community forum; obtaining historical user data comprising: clickstream data of a plurality of users who accessed at least one of the plurality of questions; profile data of the plurality of users; and application context data of the plurality of users; identifying a part-of-speech word in the plurality of questions from the online community forum; generating a plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprising a respective multi-dimensional vector for each respective question of the plurality of questions based on a frequency of the part-of-speech word in each respective question of the plurality of questions; identifying one or more user features of the plurality of users based on the historical user data; establishing one or more statistical correlations, based on the historical user data, between at least one of the one or more user features that is based on the application context data and the part-of-speech word; determining, using the one or more statistical correlations, part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users; predicting, using the one or more statistical correlations and the part-of-speech words relevant to the plurality of users, part-of-speech words relevant to the user of the online application based on at least one user feature of the user of the online application; generating a multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application based on the predicted part-of-speech words relevant to the user; computing a plurality of similarity scores comprising a similarity score between each of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors and the multi-dimensional vector for the user of the online application by determining a respective angle between the multi-dimensional vector for the user and each respective multi-dimensional vector of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors, wherein a smaller respective angle results in a higher similarity score; ranking the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors in order of relevance based on the similarity score between each of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors and the multi-dimensional vector for the user; and providing one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via a user interface of the online application based on the ranking.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application based on the ranking comprises identifying the one or more relevant questions from an online community forum that are represented by one or more of the multi-dimensional vectors for the plurality of questions.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein each one of the plurality of multi-dimensional vectors comprises weights associated with the part-of-speech word based on frequency.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein identifying the part-of-speech word comprises identifying the part-of-speech word in titles of the plurality of questions from the online community forum.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising providing one or more answers to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein providing the one or more relevant questions to the user of the online application via the user interface of the online application comprises selecting the one or more relevant questions based on a maximum number of displayed questions.
</claims>
</document>
