<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N1/00,H04N1/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAKAMOTO, TAKAHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73919384
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERIPHERAL DEVICE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM, PERIPHERAL DEVICE MANAGEMENT METHOD, AND PRINTING APPARATUS CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A peripheral device management system is provided. The system comprises a management unit configured to manage a peripheral device; a control unit configured to generate, in response to an instruction accepted by a voice control device, an operation instruction to the peripheral device corresponding to the instruction by specifying the peripheral device based on an administrator account associated with the voice control device and a service account associated with the peripheral device; and a unit configured to transmit the generated operation instruction to the specified peripheral device. If the voice control device accepts an instruction concerning maintenance, the control unit generates an operation instruction of the maintenance to the peripheral device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A peripheral device management system comprising: a management unit configured to manage a peripheral device; a control unit configured to generate, in response to an instruction accepted by a voice control device, an operation instruction to the peripheral device corresponding to the instruction by specifying the peripheral device based on an administrator account associated with the voice control device and a service account associated with the peripheral device; and a unit configured to transmit the generated operation instruction to the specified peripheral device, wherein if the voice control device accepts an instruction concerning maintenance, the control unit generates an operation instruction of the maintenance to the peripheral device.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control unit further determines whether an additional setting is required to generate the operation instruction, and transmits, if the additional setting is required, a message for requesting the additional setting to the voice control device, and generates, if the additional setting is not required, an operation instruction to the peripheral device based on the operation instruction and the additional setting.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein upon accepting the additional setting from the voice control device, the control unit determines whether a further additional setting is required to generate the operation instruction, and transmits, if the further additional setting is required, a message for requesting the additional setting to the voice control device.
4. The system according to claim 2, wherein with reference to a table that associates, with each other, the operation instruction stored in advance and the additional setting, the control unit determines whether the additional setting is required.
5. The system according to claim 2, wherein based on a response to an inquiry to the peripheral device corresponding to the specified instruction, the control unit determines whether the additional setting is required.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the management unit provides a service to an authenticated user, in response to a registration request of the management unit from a terminal, the terminal is made to undergo user authentication by the management unit, and user information of the authenticated user and user information of the terminal are stored in association with each other, and the control unit associates the administrator account and the service account with each other based on the association between the user information of the authenticated user and the user information of the terminal.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the peripheral device has a printing function.
8. A peripheral device management method using a management unit configured to manage a peripheral device, the method comprising: generating, in response to an instruction accepted by a voice control device, an operation instruction to the peripheral device corresponding to the instruction by specifying the peripheral device based on association between an administrator account associated with the voice control device and a service account associated with the peripheral device; and transmitting the generated operation instruction to the specified peripheral device, wherein if the voice control device accepts an instruction concerning maintenance, an operation instruction of the maintenance is generated to the peripheral device.
9. A printing apparatus control system comprising a printing apparatus management server system configured to generate an operation instruction based on a voice instruction accepted by a voice control device, and a printing apparatus configured to operate based on the operation instruction generated by the printing apparatus management server system, the printing apparatus management server system including a determination unit configured to determine, based on a setting item associated with a type of an operation as a target of the voice instruction transmitted by the voice control device, whether it is possible to execute an operation in the printing apparatus in accordance with setting contents included in the voice instruction, a transmission unit configured to transmit, if the determination unit determines that it is impossible to execute the instructed operation, to the voice control device, message data for inquiring about setting contents of a setting item for making it possible to execute the operation, and a generation unit configured to generate, if the determination unit determines that it is possible to execute the instructed operation, an operation instruction for executing the operation by acquiring setting contents of a setting item other than the setting item associated with the type of the operation.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein if the determination unit determines that it is possible to execute the operation, the transmission unit transmits, to the voice control device, message data for inquiring about the setting contents of the setting item other than the setting item associated with the type of the operation instruction, and the generation unit generates the operation instruction by acquiring the setting contents included in the voice instruction transmitted from the voice control device in response to the transmitted message data.
11. The system according to claim 9, wherein the setting contents of the setting item other than the setting item associated with the type of the operation instruction are defined by default.
12. The system according to claim 9, wherein the setting contents of the setting item other than the setting item associated with the type of the operation instruction are setting contents used for a previous operation.
13. The system according to claim 9, wherein the message data transmitted by the transmission unit includes a plurality of selectable setting contents.
14. The system according to claim 9, further comprising storage unit for storing the setting item associated with the type of the operation instruction.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the storage unit stores the setting item associated with the type of the operation instruction and setting contents in association with each other.
16. The system according to claim 14, wherein the storage unit stores a plurality of setting items associated with the type of the operation instruction.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the plurality of setting items have a hierarchical relationship.
18. The system according to claim 9, wherein the printing apparatus management server system further includes a control unit for controlling the printing apparatus to perform an operation based on the operation instruction generated by the generation unit, and if the printing apparatus has a function other than a printing function, the control unit accepts the printing function and the other function based on specification information of the printing apparatus.
19. The system according to claim 9 further comprising fourth transmission unit for transmitting, if the voice instruction is an instruction to request a guidance, message data including the requested guidance to the voice control device.
20. The system according to claim 9, wherein contents of the voice instruction accepted by the voice control device include setting contents of a plurality of setting items.
</claims>
</document>
