<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A24F40/53,A24F40/57,A24F40/60,A24F40/65,A61M11/04,H05B1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUUL LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOENTAL, CHRISTOPHER
CZAPAR, MATTHEW
Farshi, Oliver
Murphy, Katherine
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71784738
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TEMPERATURE ADJUSTMENT OF A VAPORIZER DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Features relating to vaporizer devices configured to allow for temperature adjustment are provided. User controlled actions with respect to removing a cartridge from a vaporizer body and inserting the cartridge into the vaporizer body provide for temperature adjustment, where the temperature refers to a setpoint temperature of operation of the vaporizer device. The temperature adjustment aspects of the current subject matter provide a user with a controlled, intuitive, and simple method to adjust the setpoint temperature of the vaporizer device by incrementing through a sequence of setpoint temperatures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: detecting insertion of a cartridge in a vaporizer body, the cartridge comprising a heating element configured to deliver heat to a vaporizable material contained in the cartridge, wherein the heat causes vaporization of the vaporizable material; determining, in response to detecting insertion of the cartridge, a setpoint temperature for the heating element; providing, on a display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the setpoint temperature; detecting removal of the cartridge from the vaporizer body; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting removal of the cartridge, an indication of the removal of the cartridge; detecting, during a timeout period and following removal of the cartridge, reinsertion of the cartridge in the vaporizer body; incrementing, in response to detecting reinsertion of the cartridge during the timeout period, the setpoint temperature to a next setpoint temperature in a sequence of setpoint temperatures; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the next setpoint temperature; and activating the heating element to reach the next setpoint temperature for vaporization of the vaporizable material.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the setpoint temperature comprises a default setpoint temperature, a cartridge-associated setpoint temperature, a vaporizer body-associated setpoint temperature, a previous setpoint temperature, or a user-defined setpoint temperature.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the setpoint temperature comprises at least one of accessing data stored on a data tag of the cartridge, accessing a memory component in the vaporizer body, and receiving the setpoint temperature from a device in communication with the vaporizer body.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the display comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the setpoint temperature comprises a first predefined pattern of illumination of the plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the next setpoint temperature comprises a second predefined pattern of illumination of the plurality of light-emitting diodes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the display comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the removal of the cartridge comprises the plurality of light-emitting diodes illuminated in a predefined cartridge removal pattern.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein a length of time of the predefined cartridge removal pattern equals the timeout period.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the indication of the next setpoint temperature interrupts the indication of the removal of the cartridge.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequence of setpoint temperatures defines a series of temperatures including at least the setpoint temperature and the next setpoint temperature.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the sequence of setpoint temperatures further comprises at least one of a cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and a user-defined setpoint temperature.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one of the cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and the user-defined setpoint temperature is positioned within the sequence of setpoint temperatures based on at least one of a value of the cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and a value of the user-defined setpoint temperature, or is positioned as a last setpoint temperature within the sequence of setpoint temperatures.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting insertion of the cartridge, an indication of the insertion of the cartridge, wherein the indication of the insertion of cartridge precedes the indication of the setpoint temperature.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a second removal of the cartridge from the vaporizer body; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting the second removal of the cartridge, an indication of the second removal of the cartridge; detecting, during a second timeout period and following the second removal of the cartridge, reinsertion of the cartridge in the vaporizer body; incrementing, in response to detecting reinsertion of the cartridge during the second timeout period, the next setpoint temperature to a third setpoint temperature in the sequence of setpoint temperatures; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the third setpoint temperature; and activating the heating element to reach the third setpoint temperature for vaporization of the vaporizable material.
13. A vaporizer device, comprising: at least one data processor; and at least one memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one data processor, cause operations comprising: detecting insertion of a cartridge in a vaporizer body, the cartridge comprising a heating element configured to deliver heat to a vaporizable material contained in the cartridge, wherein the heat causes vaporization of the vaporizable material; determining, in response to detecting insertion of the cartridge, a setpoint temperature for the heating element; providing, on a display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the setpoint temperature; detecting removal of the cartridge from the vaporizer body; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting removal of the cartridge, an indication of the removal of the cartridge; detecting, during a timeout period and following removal of the cartridge, reinsertion of the cartridge in the vaporizer body; incrementing, in response to detecting reinsertion of the cartridge during the timeout period, the setpoint temperature to a next setpoint temperature in a sequence of setpoint temperatures; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the next setpoint temperature; and activating the heating element to reach the next setpoint temperature for vaporization of the vaporizable material.
14. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the setpoint temperature comprises a default setpoint temperature, a cartridge-associated setpoint temperature, a vaporizer body-associated setpoint temperature, a previous setpoint temperature, or a user-defined setpoint temperature.
15. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein determining the setpoint temperature comprises at least one of accessing data stored on a data tag of the cartridge, accessing a memory component in the vaporizer body, and receiving the setpoint temperature from a device in communication with the vaporizer body.
16. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the display comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the setpoint temperature comprises a first predefined pattern of illumination of the plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the next setpoint temperature comprises a second predefined pattern of illumination of the plurality of light-emitting diodes.
17. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the display comprises a plurality of light-emitting diodes, wherein the indication of the removal of the cartridge comprises the plurality of light-emitting diodes illuminated in a predefined cartridge removal pattern.
18. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein a length of time of the predefined cartridge removal pattern equals the timeout period.
19. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the indication of the next setpoint temperature interrupts the indication of the removal of the cartridge.
20. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the sequence of setpoint temperatures defines a series of temperatures including at least the setpoint temperature and the next setpoint temperature.
21. The vaporizer device of claim 20, wherein the sequence of setpoint temperatures further comprises at least one of a cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and a user-defined setpoint temperature.
22. The vaporizer device of claim 21, wherein the at least one of the cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and the user-defined setpoint temperature is positioned within the sequence of setpoint temperatures based on at least one of a value of the cartridge-associated setpoint temperature and a value of the user-defined setpoint temperature, or is positioned as a last setpoint temperature within the sequence of setpoint temperatures.
23. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the at least one memory storing instructions, when executed by the at least one data processor, cause operations further comprising: providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting insertion of the cartridge, an indication of the insertion of the cartridge, wherein the indication of the insertion of cartridge precedes the indication of the setpoint temperature.
24. The vaporizer device of claim 13, wherein the at least one memory storing instructions, when executed by the at least one data processor, cause operations further comprising: detecting a second removal of the cartridge from the vaporizer body; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting the second removal of the cartridge, an indication of the second removal of the cartridge; detecting, during a second timeout period and following the second removal of the cartridge, reinsertion of the cartridge in the vaporizer body; incrementing, in response to detecting reinsertion of the cartridge during the second timeout period, the next setpoint temperature to a third setpoint temperature in the sequence of setpoint temperatures; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the third setpoint temperature; and activating the heating element to reach the third setpoint temperature for vaporization of the vaporizable material.
25. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions, which when executed by at least one data processor, result in operations comprising: detecting insertion of a cartridge in a vaporizer body, the cartridge comprising a heating element configured to deliver heat to a vaporizable material contained in the cartridge, wherein the heat causes vaporization of the vaporizable material; determining, in response to detecting insertion of the cartridge, a setpoint temperature for the heating element; providing, on a display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the setpoint temperature; detecting removal of the cartridge from the vaporizer body; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body and in response to detecting removal of the cartridge, an indication of the removal of the cartridge; detecting, during a timeout period and following removal of the cartridge, reinsertion of the cartridge in the vaporizer body; incrementing, in response to detecting reinsertion of the cartridge during the timeout period, the setpoint temperature to a next setpoint temperature in a sequence of setpoint temperatures; providing, on the display of the vaporizer body, an indication of the next setpoint temperature; and activating the heating element to reach the next setpoint temperature for vaporization of the vaporizable material.
</claims>
</document>
