<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61M21/00,A61M21/02,G06F3/01,G16H20/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
X DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
WATSON, PHILIP
Ervin, Christian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605897
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOSED-LOOP SYSTEM FOR INFLUENCING MENTAL/EMOTIONAL STATE WITH IMMERSIVE SENSORY SURROUNDINGS
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for encouraging a user towards a selected mental or emotional state includes: determining an influencing directive for encouraging the user towards the selected mental or emotional state; selecting environmental content, based upon the influencing directive, from a plurality of different types of environmental content; presenting the environmental content to the user via sensory immersion equipment, wherein the includes at least one environmental display for altering an ambience of a room; generating observation data based upon observing a user reaction to the environmental content with an observation system, the observation system including at least one sensor capable of observing the user reaction; and determining whether to adjust the environmental content based upon the observation data to encourage the user towards the selected mental or emotional state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user encouragement system, comprising: sensory immersion equipment that alters an ambience of a room, the sensory immersion equipment including at least one environmental display and a personal display for a personal or desktop computing device, wherein the at least one environmental display includes an electronic display viewable from within the room, larger than the personal display, and which fills at least 110 degrees of vision of a user within the room; an observation system including at least one sensor capable of observing the user in the room; and a controller coupled to coordinate operation of the sensory immersion equipment and the observation system, the controller including logic that when executed causes the user encouragement system to perform operations including: determining an influencing directive, wherein determining the influencing directive includes: monitoring one or more activities performed by the user with the observation system; identifying the one or more activities with a machine learning classifier; and determining a selected mental or emotional state that is conducive to the user accomplishing the one or more activities identified by the machine learning classifier; selecting environmental content, based upon the influencing directive, from a plurality of different types of environmental content; presenting the environmental content to the user via the sensory immersion equipment; adjusting a first theme of an application displayed on the personal display to conform with a second theme displayed on the environmental display; generating observation data based upon observing a user reaction to the environmental content with the observation system; and determining whether to adjust the environmental content based upon the observation data with a goal of advancing the user towards the selected mental or emotional state.
2. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein determining whether to adjust the environmental content comprises determining whether to adjust the environmental content using a machine learning algorithm that receives the observation data as an input.
3. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein the controller includes further logic that when executed causes the user encouragement system to perform additional operations including: generating a user model of the user with another machine learning classifier that classifies how the user is expected to react to the different types of the environmental content; and updating the user model based upon the user reaction observed in response to presenting the environmental content.
4. The user encouragement system of claim 3, wherein the controller includes further logic that when executed causes the user encouragement system to perform additional operations including: selecting other environmental content to test the user reaction to the other environmental content; presenting the other environmental content to the user with the sensory immersion equipment; and updating the user model based upon the user reaction observed in response to presenting the other environmental content, wherein the user is not explicitly informed that the other environmental content has been selected to test the user and refine the user model.
5. (canceled)
6. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a camera.
7. The user encouragement system of claim 6, wherein the at least one sensor further comprises a body wearable device capable of measuring at least one of a body temperature, a pulse rate, or an electrocardiogram.
8. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein the observation system is communicatively coupled to a personal or desktop computing device of the user to monitor input/output signals of the personal or desktop computing device and wherein generating the observation data based upon the user reaction comprises generating the observation data based upon the input/output signals.
9. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein the at least one environmental display comprises one of a wallpaper-like display disposed on a wall or a table surface, a display panel, or a tiled array of display panels.
10. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein determining the influencing directive for encouraging the user towards the selected mental or emotional state comprises receiving an explicit directive.
11. (canceled)
12. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein determining the influencing directive for encouraging the user towards the selected mental or emotional state comprises executing the machine learning classifier to determine an implicit directive based upon observing the one or more activities performed by the user with the observation system.
13. At least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium that provides instructions that, when executed by one or more machines, will cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: determining an influencing directive, wherein determining the influencing directive includes: monitoring one or more activities performed by a user; identifying the one or more activities; and determining a selected mental or emotional state that is conducive to the user accomplishing the one or more activities identified; selecting environmental content, based upon the influencing directive, from a plurality of different types of environmental content; presenting the environmental content to alter an ambience of a room via sensory immersion equipment, the sensory immersion equipment including at least one environmental display and a personal display for a personal or desktop computing device, wherein the at least one environmental display includes an electronic display viewable from within the room, larger than the personal display, and which fills at least 110 degrees of vision of the user within the room; adjusting a first theme of an application displayed on the personal display to conform with a second theme displayed on the environmental display; generating observation data based upon observing a user reaction to the environmental content with the observation system, the observation system including at least one sensor capable of observing the user reaction; and determining whether to adjust the environmental content based upon the observation data with a goal of advancing the user towards the selected mental or emotional state.
14. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining whether to adjust the environmental content comprises determining whether to adjust the environmental content using a machine learning algorithm that receives the observation data as an input.
15. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, further providing instructions that, when executed by the one or more machines, will cause the one or more machines to perform further operations, comprising: generating a user model of the user with another machine learning classifier that classifies how the user is expected to react to the different types of the environmental content; and updating the user model based upon the user reaction observed in response to presenting the environmental content.
16. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 15, further providing instructions that, when executed by the one or more machines, will cause the one or more machines to perform further operations, comprising: selecting other environmental content to test the user reaction to the other environmental content; presenting the other environmental content to the user with the sensory immersion equipment; and updating the user model based upon the user reaction observed in response to presenting the other environmental content, wherein the user is not explicitly informed that the other environmental content has been selected to test the user and refine the user model.
17. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, further providing instructions that, when executed by the one or more machines, will cause the one or more machines to perform further operations, comprising: adjusting a first theme of an application displayed on a personal display of a personal or desktop computing device to conform with a second theme displayed on the environmental display.
18. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, wherein generating observation data based upon observing the user reaction comprises: generating the observation data based upon input/output signals of a personal or desktop computing device communicatively coupled to the observation system.
19. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining the influencing directive for encouraging the user towards the selected mental or emotional state comprises receiving an explicit directive.
20. (canceled)
21. The at least one non-transitory machine-accessible storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining the influencing directive for encouraging the user towards the selected mental or emotional state comprises executing the machine learning algorithm to determine an implicit directive based upon observing the one or more activities with the observation system.
22. A method of encouraging a user towards a selected mental or emotional state, comprising: determining an influencing directive, wherein determining the influencing directive includes: monitoring one or more activities performed by the user with an observation system; identifying the one or more activities with a machine learning classifier; and determining a selected mental or emotional state that is conducive to the user accomplishing the one or more activities identified by the machine learning classifier; selecting environmental content, based upon the influencing directive, from a plurality of different types of environmental content, wherein selecting the environmental content includes: selecting a first portion of the environmental content from a generic library including first content that has been curated for a generic class of people into which the user is categorized; and selecting a second portion of the environmental content from a custom library including second content that has been curated specifically for the user based upon previous interactions of the user with the user encouragement system; presenting the environmental content to the user via sensory immersion equipment that includes at least one environmental display for altering an ambience of a room, wherein the at least one environmental display is an electronic display; generating observation data based upon observing a user reaction to the environmental content with the observation system, the observation system including at least one sensor capable of observing the user reaction; and determining whether to adjust the environmental content based upon the observation data with a goal of advancing the user towards the selected mental or emotional state.
23. The user encouragement system of claim 1, wherein selecting the environmental content from the plurality of different types of the environmental content comprises: selecting a first portion of the environmental content from a generic library including first content that has been curated for a generic class of people into which the user is categorized; and selecting a second portion of the environmental content from a custom library including second content that has been curated specifically for the user based upon previous interactions of the user with the user encouragement system.
</claims>
</document>
