<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MYHRE, NATHANIEL M.
ENGRAV, PETER LOREN
KULKARNI, ANIRUDDHA PRABHAKAR
JOSHI, YOGESH MADHUKARRAO
SACHIDANANDAM, VIGNESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67220847
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FRAMEWORK AND STORE FOR USER-LEVEL CUSTOMIZABLE ACTIVITY-BASED APPLICATIONS FOR HANDLING AND MANAGING DATA FROM VARIOUS SOURCES
</title>

<abstract>
An artificial intelligence ("AI") engine selects a schema that defines an activity-specific user interface ("UI") for presenting activity-specific content based upon one or more topics associated with an activity. A UI can then be presented for receiving edits to the selected schema and the edits can be published for utilization by other users. Data identifying the edits, selection of a different schema for the activity, modification of properties associated with the selected schema, and data describing usage of the schema can be provided to the AI engine for using in improving an AI model utilized to select the schema.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: selecting, by way of an artificial intelligence (AI) engine, a schema defining an activity-specific user interface (UI) for presenting activity-specific content for an activity, the schema being selected based, at least in part, on one or more topics associated with the activity; rendering a UI for receiving edits to the schema from a user; receiving the edits to the schema by way of the UI; and publishing the edits to the schema for utilization by one or more other users.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the edits to the schema modify one or more data sources identified by the schema.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema responsive to receiving the edits to the schema.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: rendering a UI for enabling selection of a new schema for the activity; receiving a selection of the new schema for the activity; and responsive to receiving the selection of the new schema for the activity, providing data to the AI engine for use in updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: rendering a UI for editing properties associated with the activity; receiving edits to the properties associated with the activity; and responsive to receiving the edits to the properties associated with the activity, providing data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting data describing usage of the schema; and providing the data describing the usage of the schema to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising rendering a UI for discovering schema created or edited by the one or more other users.
8. A computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and a computer storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: select a schema defining an activity-specific user interface (UI) for presenting activity-specific content for an activity, the schema being selected by an artificial intelligence (AI) engine, based, at least in part, on one or more topics associated with the activity; present a UI for receiving edits to the schema from a user; receive the edits to the schema by way of the UI; and publish the edits to the schema for use by one or more other users.
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the edits to the schema modify one or more data sources identified by the schema.
10. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to provide data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema responsive to receiving the edits to the schema.
11. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to present a UI for receiving input from the one or more other users approving or disapproving the edits to the schema.
12. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to present a UI for purchasing schema edited or created by the one or more other users.
13. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to: render a UI for enabling selection of a new schema for the activity; receive a selection of the new schema for the activity; and responsive to receiving the selection of the new schema for the activity, provide data to the AI engine for use in updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
14. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to: render a UI for editing properties associated with the activity; receive edits to the properties associated with the activity; and responsive to receiving the edits to the properties associated with the activity, provide data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
15. A computer storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by one or more processors of a computing system, cause the computing system to: select a schema defining an activity-specific user interface (UI) for presenting activity-specific content for an activity, the schema being selected by an artificial intelligence (AI) engine, based, at least in part, on one or more topics associated with the activity; present a UI for receiving edits to the schema from a user; receive the edits to the schema by way of the UI; and publish the edits to the schema for use by one or more other users.
16. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the edits to the schema modify one or more data sources identified by the schema, and wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to provide data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema responsive to receiving the edits to the schema.
17. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to present a UI for receiving input from the one or more other users approving or disapproving the edits to the schema.
18. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to present a UI for purchasing schema edited or created by the one or more other users.
19. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to: render a UI for enabling selection of a new schema for the activity; receive a selection of the new schema for the activity; and responsive to receiving the selection of the new schema for the activity, provide data to the AI engine for use in updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
20. The computer storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer storage medium has further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon to: render a UI for editing properties associated with the activity; receive edits to the properties associated with the activity; and responsive to receiving the properties associated with the activity, provide data to the AI engine for updating an AI model utilized to select the schema.
</claims>
</document>
