<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G08G1/123
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
SILVA, WILLIAM ANTHONY
Harmel, Moritz
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745170
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
JUNCTION QUEUEING
</title>

<abstract>
Junction queueing for vehicles is described, in which vehicles may be queued based on arrival time at a junction, position relative to a stopping location at the junction, and/or an amount of time waiting for other vehicles to proceed through the junction (timeout). In some examples, the queue may be first generated based on the arrival times of any other vehicle relative to a particular vehicle generating the queue. The queue may be updated based on arrival times of other vehicles (e.g., after the particular vehicle), whether another vehicle has proceeded out-of-turn (e.g., based on a position at the junction), and/or a timeout for vehicles that wait for others to yield at the junction. In some examples, hysteresis and alterations of the score for safety reasons may alter queue order. The queue may be used to control the particular vehicle to traverse the junction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions executable by the one or more processors, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to perform operations comprising: determining that an autonomous vehicle is positioned at a junction; determining a first arrival time of a vehicle at the junction relative to a second arrival time of the autonomous vehicle at the junction; determining a first position of the autonomous vehicle relative to a first stopping position of the junction; determining a second position of the autonomous vehicle relative to a second stopping position of the junction; determining a wait time of the autonomous vehicle at the junction, the wait time based at least in part on the first arrival time; determining a first score for the vehicle based at least in part on the first arrival time, the first position, the second position, and the wait time; comparing the first score to a second score for the autonomous vehicle; and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the junction based at least in part on the comparison of the first score to the second score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first score is determined at a first time, the operations further comprising: updating, as an updated first score, the first score at a second time after the first time; comparing the updated first score to the second score; and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the junction based at least in part on the updated first score and the second score.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein updating the first score is based at least in part on a change in the first position of the vehicle, and wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle further comprises controlling a velocity of the autonomous vehicle based on the first score.
4. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: determining a speed for the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the first score, wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the junction based at least in part on the first score further comprises controlling the autonomous vehicle to move based at least in part on the speed.
5. A method comprising: determining that a first vehicle is positioned at a junction, the first vehicle associated with a first arrival time at the junction; determining a first score for a second vehicle at the junction, the first score based at least in part on: a second arrival time of the second vehicle at the junction relative to the first arrival time of the first vehicle at the junction; a position of the second vehicle relative to a stopping position at the junction; and a wait time of the first vehicle at the junction; and controlling the first vehicle based at least in part on the first score and a second score.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining a third score for a third vehicle at the junction, the third score based at least in part on: a third arrival time of the third vehicle at the junction relative to the first arrival time and the second arrival time; a position of the third vehicle relative to a second stopping position at the junction; and the wait time of the first vehicle, wherein controlling the first vehicle is further based on the third score.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein controlling the first vehicle comprises controlling the first vehicle to traverse at least a portion of the junction based at least in part on the second score being greater than the first score and the third score.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the second arrival time is a component of the first score, and a value of the component is based at least in part on a linear function.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein first score is based at least in part on a linear function of the distance of the second vehicle from the stopping position.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the first score comprises a linear function of an elapsed time since the first arrival time.
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the stopping position is associated with a stop line at the junction or a yield line at the junction.
12. The method of claim 5, wherein the first score is determined at a first time, the method further comprising: updating, as an updated first score, the first score at a second time after the first time; comparing the updated first score to the second score, wherein controlling the first vehicle comprises controlling the first vehicle to traverse the junction based at least in part on the updated first score and the second score.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein updating the first score is based at least in part on a change in a position of the first vehicle at the junction or a change in the position of the second vehicle at the junction, and wherein controlling the first vehicle further comprises controlling a velocity of the first vehicle based on the updated first score.
14. One or more computer-readable media storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform operations comprising: determining that a first vehicle is positioned at a junction, the first vehicle associated with a first arrival time at the junction; determining a first score for a second vehicle at the junction, the first score based at least in part on: a second arrival time of the second vehicle at the junction relative to the first arrival time of the first vehicle at the junction; and a position of the second vehicle relative to a stopping position at the junction; comparing, as a comparison, the first score to a second score for the first vehicle; and controlling the first vehicle based at least in part on the comparison.
15. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein controlling the first vehicle comprises controlling the first vehicle to yield to the second vehicle for a minimum amount of time.
16. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the first score is determined at a first time, the operations further comprising: updating, as an updated first score, the first score at a second time after the first time, wherein controlling the first vehicle comprises controlling the first vehicle based at least in part on the updated first score and the second score.
17. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein updating the first score is based at least in part on a change of the position of the second vehicle relative to the stopping position at the junction from the first time to the second time.
18. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 17, the operations further comprising generating a queue that includes at least the first vehicle and the second vehicle, an order of the first vehicle and the second vehicle in the queue being based at least in part on the first score and the second score, wherein a rank of the first vehicle in the queue corresponds to an instruction to control the first vehicle to traverse the junction, and the updated first score corresponds to an instruction to control the first vehicle to yield to the second vehicle.
19. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 14, the operations further comprising continuously determining the first score and comparing the first score to the second score at least until the first vehicle has traversed a threshold portion of the junction.
20. The one or more computer-readable media of claim 14, the operations further comprising: determining a difference between the first score and the second score; and determining a target speed for the first vehicle to traverse the junction based at least in part on the difference between the first score and the second score, wherein controlling the first vehicle is further based on the target speed.
</claims>
</document>
