<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/02,G10L15/22,G10L17/00,G10L17/26,G10L19/02,G10L25/18,G10L25/69
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAE, JONGHOON
HAN, SUNGMIN
JANG, JUYEONG
PARK, YONG CHUL
YANG, SIYOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228925
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Voice interpretation device
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus that includes a microphone and a processor. The processor is configured to receive, via the microphone, audio comprising voice of a person, and determine whether the received audio is an actual voice or a synthesized voice. The apparatus also provides a first notification indicating that the received audio is the actual voice when the received audio is the actual voice, and provides a second notification indicating that the received audio is the synthesized voice when the received audio is the synthesized voice.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a microphone; and a processor configured to: receive, via the microphone, audio comprising voice of a person; determine whether the received audio is an actual voice or a synthesized voice; provide a first notification indicating that the received audio is the actual voice when the received audio is determined to be the actual voice; and provide a second notification indicating that the received audio is the synthesized voice when the received audio is determined to be the synthesized voice.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: extract a first power spectrum corresponding to a first voice unit of the received audio; extract a second power spectrum corresponding to a second voice unit of the received audio; obtain similarity between the first power spectrum and the second power spectrum based on a comparison of the first power spectrum with the second power spectrum; and determine that the received audio is the synthesized voice if the obtained similarity is less than a reference value.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the first power spectrum is a last time slot of an entire power spectrum of the first voice unit divided into a plurality of time slots having a same time interval, and wherein the second power spectrum is a first time slot of the entire power spectrum of the second voice unit divided into a plurality of time slots having a same time interval.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that the obtained similarity is less than the reference value when a difference between a first frequency band of the first power spectrum and a second frequency band of the second power spectrum is equal to or greater than a defined frequency value, and a difference between a size of the first frequency band and a size of the second frequency band is equal to or greater than a defined size.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: extract voice information of the received audio and determine whether vocoder feature information is included in the extracted voice information; and determine that the received audio is the synthesized voice when the vocoder feature information is included in the extracted voice information.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the voice information includes a voice waveform of the received audio and a power spectrum of the received audio.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the vocoder feature information includes at least one of a trace of a same pulse as the synthesized voice in a voiced part, a trace of random noise in an unvoiced part, a change in basic phoneme period, or an aspect of a vocal tract coefficient.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprising a communication unit configured to receive the vocoder feature information from a server.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform an authentication procedure when the received audio is the actual voice, and not perform the authentication procedure when the received audio is the synthesized voice.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a speaker configured to audibly output any of the first notification or the second notification.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: a display configured to display any of the first notification or the second notification.
12. A method performed at a device having a microphone, the method comprising: receiving, via the microphone, audio comprising voice of a person; determining whether the received audio is an actual voice or a synthesized voice; providing a first notification indicating that the received audio is the actual voice when the received audio is determined to be the actual voice; and providing a second notification indicating that the received audio is the synthesized voice when the received audio is determined to be the synthesized voice.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: extracting a first power spectrum corresponding to a first voice unit of the received audio; extracting a second power spectrum corresponding to a second voice unit of the received audio; obtaining similarity between the first power spectrum and the second power spectrum based on a comparison of the first power spectrum with the second power spectrum; and determining that the received audio is the synthesized voice if the obtained similarity is less than a reference value.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the first power spectrum is a last time slot of an entire power spectrum of the first voice unit divided into a plurality of time slots having a same time interval, and wherein the second power spectrum is a first time slot of the entire power spectrum of the second voice unit divided into a plurality of time slots having a same time interval.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining that the obtained similarity is less than the reference value when a difference between a first frequency band of the first power spectrum and a second frequency band of the second power spectrum is equal to or greater than a defined frequency value, and a difference between a size of the first frequency band and a size of the second frequency band is equal to or greater than a defined size.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: extracting voice information of the received audio and determining whether vocoder feature information is included in the extracted voice information; and determining that the received audio is the synthesized voice when the vocoder feature information is included in the extracted voice information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the voice information includes a voice waveform of the received audio and a power spectrum of the received audio.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the vocoder feature information includes at least one of a trace of a same pulse as the synthesized voice in a voiced part, a trace of random noise in an unvoiced part, a change in basic phoneme period, or an aspect of a vocal tract coefficient.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: performing an authentication procedure when the received audio is the actual voice, and not perform the authentication procedure when the received audio is the synthesized voice.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising: outputting any of the first notification or the second notification via a speaker; and outputting any of the first notification or the second notification via a display.
</claims>
</document>
