<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AGGARWAL, SANDEEP
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGGARWAL, SANDEEP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70728192
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS OF UTILIZING MACHINE LEARNING TO PROVIDE TRUST SCORES IN AN ONLINE AUTOMOBILE MARKETPLACE
</title>

<abstract>
In one example aspect, a computerized method includes the step of providing an item listing. The item listing is listed in an e-commerce marketplace. The computerized method includes the step of identifying the item listing into a set of listing parameters. A listing parameter includes one or more listing images and one or more terms that are descriptive of the item listing. The computerized method includes using the listing parameters to do the following steps. The computerized method determines a trust score for the item listing. The trust score is based on a number of images of an item in the item listing. The computerized method a quality score of the number of images; a description score of a description of the item. The computerized method determines a pricing score. The pricing score is based on a percentage variation from a geographically relevant item valuation and an item research service, and a condition of the item. The computerized method determines a seller score. The seller score is based on the verified status of the seller, a seller rating of the seller, and a percentage of positive feedback. The computerized method determines a health score. The health score is based on a seller declaration, a service logs, a verification that the item is insured, and a verification that the item properly registered.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is:
1. A computerized method of providing health scores in an online marketplace comprising: providing an item listing, wherein the item listing is listed in an e-commerce marketplace; identifying the item listing into a set of listing parameters, wherein a listing parameter comprises one or more listing images and one or more terms that are descriptive of the item listing; based on historical sales data, calculating a set of weights assignments of the set of listing parameters values are calculated providing a Multivariate Regression model by: splitting the historical sales data into a training set and a test set, generating the weights assignments using a multivariate linear regression process, and applying the weights assignments to the listing parameters; and using the listing parameters to: determine a trust score for the item listing, wherein the trust score is based on a number of images of an item in the item listing; a quality score of the number of images; a description score of a description of the item; determine a pricing score, wherein the pricing score is based on a percentage variation from a geographically relevant item valuation and an item research service, and a condition of the item; determine a seller score, wherein the seller score is based on the verified status of the seller; a seller rating of the seller, and a percentage of positive feedback; and determine a health score, wherein the health score is based on a seller declaration, a service logs, a verification that the item is insured, and a verification that the item is properly registered.
2. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the item comprises an automobile.
3. The computerized method of claim 2, wherein the item comprises a used automobile.
4. The computerized method of claim 3, wherein the pricing score is further based on a percentage variation from median price of a set of items that are in a same class as the item and a percentage of other current item listings of the set of items that are below a quoted price in the item listing.
5. The computerized method of claim 4, wherein the trust score is further based on a set of basic facts about the item, a set of key factors of the item, and a list of available options for purchasing the item.
6. The computerized method of claim 5, wherein the seller score is further based on a seller engagement score, a showroom score, and a dealership score.
7. The computerized method of claim 1 further comprising: generating a full-health score based on a weighted average of the trust score, the pricing score, the seller score and the health score.
8. A server system comprising: a processor configured to execute instructions; a memory containing instructions when executed on the processor, causes the processor to perform operations that: providing an item listing, wherein the item listing is listed in an e-commerce marketplace; identifying the item listing into a set of listing parameters, wherein a listing parameter comprises one or more listing images and one or more terms that are descriptive of the item listing; based on historical sales data, calculating a set of weights assignments of the set of listing parameters values are calculated providing a Multivariate Regression model by: splitting the historical sales data into a training set and a test set, generating the weights assignments using a multivariate linear regression process, and applying the weights assignments to the listing parameters; and using the listing parameters to: determine a trust score for the item listing, wherein the trust score is based on a number of images of an item in the item listing; a quality score of the number of images; a description score of a description of the item; determine a pricing score, wherein the pricing score is based on a percentage variation from a geographically relevant item valuation and an item research service, and a condition of the item; determine a seller score, wherein the seller score is based on the verified status of the seller; a seller rating of the seller, and a percentage of positive feedback; and determine a health score, wherein the health score is based on a seller declaration, a service logs, a verification that the item is insured, and a verification that the item is properly registered.
9. The server system of claim 7, wherein the item comprises an automobile.
10. The server system of claim 8, wherein the item comprises a used automobile.
11. The server system of claim 9, wherein the pricing score is further based a percentage variation from median price of a set of items that are in a same class as the item and a percentage of other current item listings of the set of items that are below a quoted price in the item listing.
12. The server system of claim 10, wherein the trust score is further based on a set of basic facts about the item, a set of key factors of the item, and a list of available options for purchasing the item.
13. The server system of claim 11, wherein the seller score is further based on a seller engagement score, a showroom score, and a dealership score.
</claims>
</document>
