<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/30,G06F21/78,G06F21/86,G06N20/00,H04L9/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
POSTNIKOV, Roman Vladimirovich
</assignee>

<inventors>
VOEVODSKII, Maksim Vladislavovich
POSTNIKOV, Roman Vladimirovich
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69171236
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE FOR SECURE COMPUTING THE VALUE OF A FUNCTION USING TWO PRIVATE DATASETS WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE DATASETS AND METHOD FOR COMPUTING THE SOCIAL RATING USING THE DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to data protection means and can be used for cooperative computing by two or more parties without revealing to each other the private data used. The technical result is to ensure the privacy of large amounts of data belonging to different parties, and to reduce the amount of memory secured from unauthorized reading during computations. Such an effect is achieved due to forming the first and the second private datasets, where the first and the second private datasets use user identifiers, wherein the first private dataset contains user ratings matched to the user identifiers, and the second private dataset, for each of the user identifiers, contains an array of user identifiers from the social environment of the respective users; by the user identifiers from the social environment of the selected user, computing the social rating of the selected user as a function of the number of users from the social environment and the rating values of the users from the social environment. Wherein the data on social ratings of users are transmitted in encrypted form.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for secure computing the value of a function using two private datasets without compromising the datasets, comprising: a functional data interface configured to retrieve data from a public dataset, and a service interface for transmitting the function computation results, wherein the first and the second private datasets use identifiers from a common set of identifiers; the second private dataset contains data arrays, wherein each dataset corresponds to one of the identifiers of the common set of identifiers, and each array contains a set of identifiers from the identifiers used in the first private dataset; in the public dataset, each of the identifiers is matched with a value from the first private dataset encrypted with the first encryption key and configured to decrypt with the first decryption key the values encrypted with the first encryption key, and the values matched to the identifiers from the first private dataset are used as function arguments; the device containing: a protected storage area that stores the first decryption key; physically protected computing unit configured to decrypt the values with the first decryption key and compute the electronic signature value of the function computation result using the electronic signature key stored in the protected storage area; the computing unit is configured to provide: storing the first decryption key of the key pair "the first encryption key-the first decryption key" in the protected storage area of the computing unit, wherein the first encryption key is used to encrypt values from the first private dataset; computing the value of a function for an identifier selected from a common set of identifiers by obtaining, through the functional interface, data from a public dataset corresponding to the identifiers from the data array corresponding to the requested identifier; decrypting the encrypted data with the first decryption key to obtain the values used as function arguments, computing the function value, computing the electronic signature value of the function computation result using the electronic signature key, and transmitting the function value together with the computed electronic signature value over the service interface.
2. The device of claim 1, characterized in that a storage unit protected against physical access is used as the protected storage area, while the connections between the protected storage area, the computing unit, as well as the functional and service interfaces are provided inside an integrated body with physical access protection.
3. The device of claim 2, characterized in that the electronic signature key is used as the first encryption key.
4. The device of claim 1, characterized in that the physically protected computing unit is designed as a processor.
5. The device of claim 4, characterized in that the storage protection is ensured by data encryption on the processor side.
6. The device of claim 1, characterized in that the computing unit is configured to provide generation of the pair "the first encryption key-the first decryption key", with the transmission of the first encryption key for encrypting the values from the first private dataset.
7. The device of claim 1, characterized in that it is configured to store the second decryption key from the key pair "the second encryption key-the second decryption key" in the protected storage area of the computing unit, wherein the second encryption key is used to encrypt a set of data from a public dataset corresponding to the identifiers of the data array corresponding to the requested identifier before transmission to functional interface, and the device is configured to decrypt said data with the second decryption key.
8. The device of claim 7, characterized in that the electronic signature key is used as the second encryption key.
9. The device of claim 4, characterized in that it is designed to be installed within the security perimeter of the first private dataset owner.
10. The device of claim 3, characterized in that it is designed to be installed within the security perimeter of the second private dataset owner.
11. The device of claim 1, characterized in that the subscribers' telephone numbers or other personal identifiers are used as identifiers.
12. The device of claim 1, characterized in that the subscribers' credit ratings are used as the values.
13. The device of claim 12, characterized in that each of the arrays of the first dataset contains telephone numbers of the subscribers interacting with the subscriber, whose telephone number is an identifier corresponding to the array.
14. The device of claim 13, characterized in that for each of the telephone numbers of the subscribers interacting with the subscriber corresponding to the array, a weight coefficient corresponding to the "communication level" is specified, and while computing the function, each of the identifiers changes according to the value of the weight coefficient.
15. The device of claim 13, characterized in that the weight coefficient depends on the average conversation time per day.
16. The device of claim 1, characterized in that it is prevented from re-requesting to compute a function corresponding to one of the identifiers of the common set of identifiers.
17. The device of claim 1, characterized in that it is configured to load the first decryption key into the memory under the control of the parties owning the first and second datasets.
18. The device of claim 1, characterized in that it is configured to provide authentication of the data processing unit and secured exchange of private keys, one of which is used for encryption and the other for decryption of messages transmitted through the service interface before using the functional interface.
19. The device of claim 1, characterized in that it is configured to become disabled after execution of a predetermined number of requests.
20. A method of secure computing the social rating of a selected user, comprising: forming the first and the second private datasets, where the first and the second private datasets use user identifiers, wherein the first private dataset contains user ratings matched to the user identifiers; the second private dataset, for each of the user identifiers, contains an array of user identifiers from the social environment of the respective users; forming a pair "the primary encryption key-the primary decryption key", where the primary encryption key is public, the primary decryption key provides the decryption of data encrypted with the primary encryption key, and the primary encryption key is stored in a copy-protected storage area of the private data processing unit; forming a public dataset in which the rating values are replaced by the corresponding rating values encrypted with the encryption key; setting the identifier of the selected user; by the user identifiers from the social environment of the selected user, selecting and transmitting encrypted user ratings from the social environment of the selected user to the private data processing unit; decrypting the values of user ratings inside the private data processing unit; and computing the social rating of the selected user as a function of the number of users from the social environment and the rating values of the users from the social environment.
21. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the user credit rating is used as the user rating.
22. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the user actuarial rating is used as the user rating.
23. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the value of the social rating of the selected user is computed as the arithmetic mean of the ratings of users from the social environment of the selected user.
24. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the value of the social rating of the selected user is computed using a machine learning model.
25. The method of claim 20, characterized in that an additional key pair is formed from the additional encryption key and the additional decryption key, wherein the additional decryption key is stored in the copy-protected storage area of the private data processing unit, while the set of the selected and encrypted user ratings from the second private dataset for the selected user is encrypted along with the additional decryption key before being transferred to the private data processing unit and decrypted with the additional decryption key inside the private data processing unit for computing the social rating for the selected user.
26. The method of claim 20, characterized in that several additional second private datasets and several pairs of second additional encryption keys and second additional decryption keys are formed according to the number of additional second private datasets, wherein the second additional decryption keys are stored in the copy-protected storage area of the private processing unit for each of the additional second private datasets, while the set of the selected and encrypted user ratings from the additional second private dataset is encrypted along with the corresponding second additional decryption key before being transmitted to the private data processing unit, and decrypted with the second additional decryption key inside the private data processing unit, and the social rating of the selected user is computed for the data sets from the second private dataset of all the decrypted first and second data along with the data sets from all the additional second private datasets.
27. The method of claim 20, characterized in that for each of the social environment identifiers of the second private dataset, a weight coefficient corresponding to the "communication level" is specified, and while computing the function, each of the corresponding ratings changes in proportion to the value of the weight coefficient.
28. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the primary decryption key is generated under the control of the parties owning the first and second datasets.
29. The method of claim 20, characterized in that, before using the functional interface, authentication of the data processing unit and secured exchange of private keys are provided, one of the keys being used for encryption and the other for decryption of messages transmitted through the service interface.
30. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the subscribers' telephone numbers or other personal identifiers are used as identifiers.
31. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the private data processing unit is installed within the security perimeter of the first private dataset owner.
32. The method of claim 20, characterized in that the private data processing unit is installed within the security perimeter of the second private dataset owner.
33. The method of claim 27, characterized in that the weight coefficient depends on the average conversation time per day.
</claims>
</document>
