<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/01,A61B8/00,A61B8/08,G06N20/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEVY, YOAV
RINOTT, SHAHAR
VORTMAN, KOBI
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEVY, YOAV
RINOTT, SHAHAR
VORTMAN, KOBI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69159805
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZATION OF TRANSDUCER CONFIGURATIONS IN ULTRASOUND PROCEDURES
</title>

<abstract>
Various approaches to delivering ultrasound energy to a target region include an ultrasound transducer having multiple transducer elements for generating a focal zone of acoustic energy at the target region, wherein one or more transducer elements are partitioned into multiple contiguous sub-regions having a common directionality; one or more driver circuits connected to the transducer element(s); a switch matrix having multiple switches for switchably connecting the sub-regions to the driver circuit(s), each of the sub-regions being associated with one of the switches; and a controller configured to (i) determine an optimal sonication frequency for maximizing a peak acoustic intensity in the focal zone; and (ii) based at least in part on the determined optimal sonication frequency, activate one or more switches in the switch matrix for causing the corresponding sub-region(s) to transmit ultrasound pulses to the target region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for delivering ultrasound energy to a target region, the system comprising: an ultrasound transducer comprising a plurality of transducer elements for generating a focal zone of acoustic energy at the target region, wherein at least one of the transducer elements is partitioned into a plurality of contiguous sub-regions having a common directionality; at least one driver circuit connected to at least one said transducer element; a switch matrix comprising a plurality of switches for switchably connecting the plurality sub-regions to the driver circuit, each of the sub-regions being associated with one of the switches; and a controller configured to: (a) determine an optimal sonication frequency for maximizing a peak acoustic intensity in the focal zone; and (b) based at least in part on the determined optimal sonication frequency, activate at least one of the switches in the switch matrix for causing the corresponding sub-region to transmit ultrasound pulses to the target region.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising an imaging system for acquiring images of the target region or a non-target region located between the transducer and the target region.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the imaging system comprises at least one of a computer tomography (CT) device, a magnetic resonance imaging device (MRI), a positron emission tomography (PET) device, a single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) device, or an ultrasonography device.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to determine, based at least in part on the acquired images, a spatial configuration of the target region with respect to the transducer.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the spatial configuration comprises at least one of an orientation or a location.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the controller is further configured to compute a steering angle of the focal zone based at least in part on the spatial configuration of the target region with respect to the transducer.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the controller is further configured to activate at least one said switch based at least in part on the computed steering angle.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a plurality of sub-optimal frequencies, each associated with a parameter, wherein (i) a change in the parameter results in a change in the peak acoustic intensity in the focal zone and (ii) the sub-optimal frequency corresponds to a maximum of the peak acoustic intensity resulting from changes in the associated parameter; and determine the optimal sonication frequency based at least in part on the sub-optimal frequencies.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to assign a weighting factor to each of the sub-optimal frequencies and determine the optimal sonication frequency based at least in part on the weighting factors.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to assign the weighting factors based on at least one of a first anatomic characteristic of the target region, a second anatomic characteristic of a non-target region located between the transducer and the target region, a steering angle of the focal zone, a contribution of each parameter to the maximum of the peak acoustic intensity, or retrospective data based on study of patients who have undergone ultrasound treatment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the first or the second anatomic characteristic comprises at least one of a tissue type, a tissue property, a tissue structure, a tissue thickness or a tissue density.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the controller is further configured to assign the weighting factors using a machine-learning or evolutionary approach.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to determine a second one of the sub-optimal frequencies based at least in part on a first one of the sub-optimal frequencies.
14. The system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a risk level associated with the non-target region based at least in part on the acquired images; and determine the optimal sonication frequency based at least in part on the risk level.
15. The system of claim 2, wherein the controller is further configured to: use a physical model to predict a thermal map of the target region and non-target region based at least in part on the acquired images; and determine the optimal sonication frequency based at least in part on the predicted thermal map.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: compute a resonance frequency of a microbubble in the target region; and determine the optimal sonication frequency based at least in part on the microbubble resonance frequency.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches is an MEMS switch or a CMOS switch.
18. A system for delivering ultrasound energy to a target region, the system comprising: an ultrasound transducer comprising a plurality of transducer elements for generating a focal zone of acoustic energy at the target region, wherein at least one of the transducer elements is partitioned into a plurality of contiguous sub-regions having a common directionality; at least one driver circuit connected to at least one said transducer element; a switch matrix comprising a plurality of switches for switchably connecting the plurality sub-regions to the driver circuit, each of the sub-regions being associated with one of the switches; at least one imaging system for measuring a spatial configuration of the target region with respect to the transducer; and a controller configured to activate at least one of the switches in the switch matrix to thereby cause the corresponding sub-region to transmit ultrasound pulses to the target region based at least in part on the measured spatial configuration.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the controller is further configured to compute a steering angle of the focal zone based at least in part on the spatial configuration and activate at least one said transducer element based on the steering angle.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the imaging system comprises at least one of a computer tomography (CT) device, a magnetic resonance imaging device, a positron emission tomography (PET) device, a single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) device, or an ultrasonography device.
21. The system of claim 18, wherein the spatial configuration comprises at least one of an orientation or a location.
22. The system of claim 18, wherein at least one of the plurality of switches is an MEMS switch or a CMOS switch.
</claims>
</document>
