<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILO, EHUD
GUPTA, GAURAV
BALWALLY, AKSHAY
YAN, JIA
CRAPIS, DAVIDE
YOSHIZAWA, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69718890
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EFFICIENCY OF A TRANSPORTATION MATCHING SYSTEM USING GEOCODED PROVIDER MODELS
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes a transportation matching system that manages the allocation of transportation providers by training and utilizing multiple machine-learning models to identify, allocate, and serve specific transportation providers with customized opportunities to relocate the transportation providers between geocoded areas in a geocoded region. For instance, the transportation matching system trains and utilizes an incremental provider model, a provider allocation model, and personalized provider behavioral models as well as a customized provider interface generator to satisfy anticipated transportation requests and improve transportation matching within a geocoded region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing allocation of transportation providers comprising: identifying a geocoded region comprising a plurality of geocoded areas; determining a number of transportation providers available to fulfill transportation requests from each of the plurality of geocoded areas; identifying an incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; generating a transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region based on the number of available transportation providers in each of the geocoded areas and the incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; and utilizing the transportation flow matrix to redistribute one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from a first geocoded area to a second geocoded area.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request in a given geocoded area of the plurality of geocoded areas comprises transportation providers from the given geocoded area and transportation providers from geocoded areas near the given geocoded area, wherein the transportation providers from the geocoded areas near the given geocoded area are within a first threshold transportation distance or a first threshold travel time of the given geocoded area.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the number of transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request from the given geocoded area further comprises transportation providers that are within a second threshold transportation distance or a second threshold travel time of a geocoded area within the geocoded areas near the given geocoded area.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining a transportation provider metric for the given geocoded area based on applying a distance metric to each of the transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request from the given geocoded area indicating the likelihood of that each of the available transportation providers will travel to the given geocoded area to fulfil the transportation request; and wherein determining the transportation flow matrix is based on the transportation provider metric for the given geocoded area and the incremental provider metric for the given geocoded area.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the distance metric is inversely proportional to the distance of a given available transportation provider to the given geocoded area.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region further comprises maximizing a regional metric by correlating the available transportation providers in each of the geocoded areas with the incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas by allocating available transportation providers among the plurality of geocoded areas within the geocoded region.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein maximizing the geocoded regional metric is subject to a total number of available transportation providers in the geocoded region, and wherein a number of the allocated available transportation providers does not surpass the total number of available transportation providers in the geocoded region.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein maximizing the geocoded regional metric is subject to a real-time transportation request forecast.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein redistributing the one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area comprises: identifying a first incremental provider metric for the first geocoded area from the transportation flow matrix; identifying a second incremental provider metric for the second geocoded area from the transportation flow matrix; determining that the difference between the first incremental provider metric and the second incremental provider metric satisfies an incremental provider threshold; and causing a transportation provider in the first geocoded area to relocate to the second geocoded area based on the incremental provider threshold being satisfied.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein redistributing the one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area comprises causing a plurality of transportation providers to relocate from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising pruning out geocoded areas in the transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region that have an incremental provider metric below a threshold incremental provider metric, wherein pruning out the geocoded areas in the transportation flow matrix reduces computational requirements of redistributing the one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area.
12. A system for managing allocation of transportation providers comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: identify a geocoded region comprising a plurality of geocoded areas; determine a number of transportation providers available to fulfill transportation requests from each of the plurality of geocoded areas; identify an incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; generate a transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region based on the number of available transportation providers in each of the geocoded areas and the incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; and utilize the transportation flow matrix to redistribute one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from a first geocoded area to a second geocoded area.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the number of transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request in a given geocoded area of the plurality of geocoded areas comprises transportation providers from the given geocoded area and transportation providers from geocoded areas near the given geocoded area, and wherein the transportation providers from the geocoded areas near the given geocoded area are within a first threshold transportation distance or a first threshold travel time of the given geocoded area.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the number of transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request from the given geocoded area further comprises transportation providers that are within a second threshold transportation distance or a second threshold travel time of a geocoded area within the geocoded areas near the given geocoded area.
15. The system of claim 14, further comprising determining a transportation provider metric for the given geocoded area based on applying a distance metric to each of the transportation providers available to fulfill the transportation request from the given geocoded area indicating the likelihood of that each of the available transportation providers will travel to the given geocoded area to fulfil the transportation request; and wherein determining the transportation flow matrix is based on the transportation provider metric for the given geocoded area and the incremental provider metric for the given geocoded area.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the distance metric is inversely proportional to the distance of a given available transportation provider to the given geocoded area.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions thereon that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a system to: identify a geocoded region comprising a plurality of geocoded areas; determine a number of transportation providers available to fulfill transportation requests from each of the plurality of geocoded areas; identify an incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; generate a transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region based on the number of available transportation providers in each of the geocoded areas and the incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas; and utilize the transportation flow matrix to redistribute one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from a first geocoded area to a second geocoded area.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein determining the transportation flow matrix for the geocoded region further comprises maximizing a regional metric by correlating the available transportation providers in each of the geocoded areas with the incremental provider metric for each of the plurality of geocoded areas by allocating available transportation providers among the plurality of geocoded areas within the geocoded region.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein maximizing the geocoded regional metric is subject to a total number of available transportation providers in the geocoded region, wherein a number of the allocated available transportation providers does not surpass the total number of available transportation providers in the geocoded region.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein redistributing the one or more available transportation providers in the geocoded region from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area comprises causing a plurality of transportation providers to relocate from the first geocoded area to the second geocoded area.
</claims>
</document>
