<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03B15/06,G06T7/00,H04N5/00,H04N5/225,H04N5/232,H04N5/247,H04N5/262
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACV AUCTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSHBEIN, REID
POULSEN, TIMOTHY
CAMPANELLA, CHARLIE
MAGNUSZEWSKI, DANIEL
SCHNEIDER, PHILIP
CAROLUS, KEITH
POKORA, MICHAEL
BALDWIN, JULIAN
CHAMBERS, DARIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662615
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle undercarriage imaging system
</title>

<abstract>
Devices and methods for capturing vehicle undercarriage images are described. In some instances, a mirror assembly may be used to reflect images of portions of a vehicle undercarriage into a field of view of a camera to be captured, e.g., as a vehicle passes over the mirror assembly. Composite images may be reconstructed from the reflected portions of the vehicle undercarriage, and analysis may be performed on those reconstructed, composite images to identify features in the composite vehicle undercarriage images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle undercarriage imaging system comprising: a mirror assembly including a base and a mirror surface, the mirror surface having a width and the mirror assembly having a height; a camera positionable at a location that is central in a width direction along the mirror surface and spaced apart from the mirror surface in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction, the camera having a field of view oriented toward the mirror surface; wherein the mirror surface is angled in the depth direction such that a reflected field of view that is viewable in the mirror surface at the camera is above the mirror assembly in the height direction, and wherein the camera is configured to capture sequential images of at least a portion of a vehicle undercarriage passing above the mirror assembly within the reflected field of view, and wherein the mirror assembly includes an extension arm movably attached to the base at a first end of the extension arm, the extension arm including a camera mount at a second end of the extension arm.
2. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the image capture device is configured to form a composite vehicle undercarriage image from the sequential images.
3. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the camera mount is configured to position the camera at the location that is central in the width direction along the mirror surface and spaced apart from the mirror surface in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction.
4. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 3, wherein the extension arm is configured to fold into the base such that the first and second ends of the extension arm are parallel to the width direction along the mirror surface.
5. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 4, wherein the extension arm includes a base having a slot and a side attached to the base at a right-angle, the side including a slot.
6. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 5, wherein the mirror assembly further includes: a cover, including bracket; a stop bar attached to the bottom of the base configured to position the extension arm in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction when the extension arm is extended and an edge of the extension arm is in contact with the stop bar; an extension arm rotation pin attached to the bottom of the base configured to be received in the slot on the base of the extension arm; wherein the extension arm is configured to extend from a folded-in position in which the extension arm is parallel to the width direction along the mirror surface by sliding along the rotation pin and rotating about the rotation pin so as to swing out from the mirror assembly base in a depth direction to an extended position in which the extension arm is normal to the width direction along the mirror surface.
7. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the mirror assembly includes a pair of extension arms movably attached to the base at opposite ends of the base and at a first end of each of the extension arms, the extension arms including a camera mount at a second end of each of the extension arms, the camera mount configured to position the camera at the location that is central in the width direction along the mirror surface and spaced apart from the mirror surface in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction.
8. The vehicle undercarriage system of claim 1, wherein the height of the mirror assembly is less than six inches, and wherein the width of the mirror surface is less than about 60 inches and wide enough to capture a width of the vehicle undercarriage.
9. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the mirror assembly further includes a plurality of light emitting diodes at fixed positions along at least one peripheral edge of the mirror surface.
10. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the mirror assembly further includes a leveling indicator.
11. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the mirror assembly further includes a plurality of adjustable feet extending from the base, the plurality of adjustable feet being individually adjustable in a height direction.
12. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, wherein the mirror surface is mountable to the base via one or more magnets.
13. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, further comprising a plurality of cameras oriented toward the mirror surface.
14. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 1, further comprising at least one fiducial mark positioned on the mirror assembly within the field of view of the camera.
15. A vehicle undercarriage imaging system comprising: a mirror assembly including a base and a mirror surface, the mirror surface having a width and the mirror assembly having a height; a camera mount positioned on an end of an extension arm, the extension arm movable between a retracted position an extended position, wherein, in the extended position, the camera mount is at a location that is central in a width direction along the mirror surface and spaced apart from the mirror surface in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction, wherein the camera mount is positioned such that a camera mountable therein is oriented toward the mirror surface; wherein the mirror surface is angled in the depth direction such that a reflected field of view that is viewable in the mirror surface from the camera mount is above the mirror assembly in the height direction, and wherein the reflected field of view includes a width of a vehicle undercarriage passing above the mirror assembly in the depth direction.
16. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 15, wherein the height of the mirror assembly is less than a predetermined height corresponding to a minimum ground clearance of an automobile.
17. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 15, wherein the camera mount is oriented to receive a mobile device having the camera on a rear side, the camera being oriented toward the mirror assembly when received by the camera mount.
18. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 15, wherein the mirror surface is positioned at an upwardly-oriented 45 degree angle relative to the camera mount.
19. The vehicle undercarriage imaging system of claim 15, wherein the camera mount is at least partially positioned in horizontal alignment with the mirror assembly.
20. A method of capturing an image of a vehicle undercarriage, the method comprising: placing a mirror assembly at a predetermined location, the mirror assembly including a base and a mirror surface, the mirror surface having a width and the mirror assembly having a height; extending a camera mount from the mirror assembly at a predetermined horizontal distance from the mirror assembly; positioning a device including a camera in the camera mount oriented toward the mirror surface, the mirror surface being upwardly angled to reflect a view above the mirror assembly toward the camera; causing a vehicle to pass over the mirror assembly while recording a plurality of images in the camera; and viewing a composite vehicle undercarriage image compiled from portions of the plurality of images.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: prior to causing the vehicle to pass over the mirror assembly, initiating a process to record the plurality of images.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein viewing the composite vehicle undercarriage image is performed in an application on the device, the method further comprising providing one or more inputs to the application identifying features in the composite vehicle undercarriage image.
23. A vehicle undercarriage imaging system comprising: a mirror assembly including a base and a mirror surface, the mirror surface having a width and the mirror assembly having a height; a camera positionable at a location that is central in a width direction along the mirror surface and spaced apart from the mirror surface in a depth direction that is normal to the width direction, the camera having a field of view oriented toward the mirror surface; wherein the mirror surface is angled in the depth direction such that a reflected field of view that is viewable in the mirror surface at the camera is above the mirror assembly in the height direction, and wherein the camera is configured to capture sequential images of at least a portion of a vehicle undercarriage passing above the mirror assembly within the reflected field of view, and wherein the height of the mirror assembly is less than six inches, and wherein the width of the mirror surface is less than about 60 inches and wide enough to capture a width of the vehicle undercarriage.
</claims>
</document>
