<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/05,A61B5/055,A61B6/03,A61B8/00,A61N2/12,G16H20/40,G16H30/20,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGNETIC INSIGHT
</assignee>

<inventors>
Yu, Elaine Yuiyi
Fields, Kyle David
Kettlewell, Robert Blayne
Weber, Matthias
Hensley, Daniel Westbrook
Goodwill, Patrick William
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70228834
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Magnetic Particle Actuation
</title>

<abstract>
Magnetic particle actuating systems may include a magnet system configured to generate a magnetic field that includes a field-free region. A corresponding control system can be configured to control the magnet system to create a field-free region at least partially matching a target region. An excitation system can be configured to generate an excitation field to cause actuation of magnetic nanoparticles in an actuation region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory, machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by at least one programmable processor, cause operations comprising: generating a magnetic field with a magnet system, the magnetic field including a field-free region at least partially matching a target region; and applying an excitation field with an excitation system to cause actuation of magnetic nanoparticles in an actuation region.
2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region comprises enclosing the target region within the field-free region.
3. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region comprises conforming the field-free region to the target region.
4. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region comprises avoiding overlap with a region to avoid.
5. The computer program product of claim 1, the operations further comprising determining additional target region(s) during a process of covering an entire therapeutic region to be actuated during a treatment, while avoiding actuation of a region to avoid.
6. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the magnet system includes a first set of magnets on either side of the field-free region and the at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region includes independently controlling at least one of the first set of magnets to translate along a first axis.
7. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the magnet system includes one or more electromagnets and the at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region is based at least on controlling current(s) in the one or more electromagnets.
8. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the at least partially matching the field-free region to the target region includes controlling reorientation of a patient couch.
9. The computer program product of claim 1, the operations further comprising applying the excitation field through an excitation system.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, the operations further including generating the excitation field in a manner that changes the actuation region.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the excitation system includes a swappable cassette in which portions of the excitation system are included and which can be swapped out of the magnet system for different performance or different therapies.
12. The computer program product of claim 1, the operations further comprising obtaining an image of a patient, wherein the field-free region is located and/or shaped to approximately coincide with the target region identified based at least on the image.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the image is obtained from a magnetic particle imaging system.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the image is obtained from a magnetic resonance imaging system, an X-ray computed tomography system, an ultrasound system, or an optical fluorescence system.
15. The computer program product of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving a treatment plan for the target region, the treatment plan specifying the actuation to be delivered to the magnetic nanoparticles; generating or receiving one or more images of the patient; automatically modifying the actuation based at least on a change in the patient, a change in the magnetic nanoparticles, or a change in a predicted dose as determined from the one or more images; and applying the excitation field to perform the modified actuation.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein modifying the actuation includes modifying a magnitude of the excitation field or modifying a period of time of applying the excitation field based at least on the change in the patient, the magnetic nanoparticles, or the predicted dose.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, the operations further comprising: receiving a magnetic particle imaging signal simultaneously with application of the excitation field; determining an actuation dose based at least on a calculation using the magnetic particle imaging signal; and modifying the excitation field based at least on the actuation dose.
18. A magnetic particle actuating system comprising: a magnet system configured to generate a magnetic field that includes a field-free region; an excitation system configured to generate an excitation field to cause actuation of magnetic nanoparticles in an actuation region; and a control system configured to control the magnet system to create a field-free region at least partially matching a target region.
19. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to cause the field-free region to enclose the target region.
20. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to cause the field-free region to conform to the target region.
21. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to cause the field-free region to avoid overlap with a region to avoid.
22. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to determine additional target region(s) for a process of covering an entire therapeutic region to be actuated during a treatment, while avoiding actuation of a region to avoid.
23. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to translate the field-free region to the target region as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
24. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to scale the field-free region to the target region as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
25. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to change a shape of the field-free region to the target region as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
26. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to control the magnet system to rotate the field-free region to the target region as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
27. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, the magnet system further comprising: one or more magnetic materials; and wherein the control system is further configured to cause mechanical movement of the one or more magnetic materials to translate, scale, rotate, or change the shape of the field-free region.
28. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, the magnet system further comprising: a first set of magnets on either side of the field-free region; and a first magnet stage system configured to independently translate at least one of the first set of magnets along a first axis; and wherein the control system is further configured to control at least one of the first set of magnets to translate along the first axis as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
29. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 28, wherein the first magnet stage system is further configured to independently translate the at least one of the first set of magnets along a second axis; and wherein the control system is further configured to cause mechanical translation of the first set of magnets along a second axis as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
30. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 28, the magnet system further comprising: a second set of magnets on either side of the field-free region; and a second magnet stage system configured to independently translate at least one of the second set of magnets along a second axis; and wherein the control system is further configured to control at least one of the second set of magnets to translate along the second axis as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
31. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, the magnet system further comprising one or more electromagnets; and wherein the control system is further configured to control currents in the one or more electromagnets as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
32. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, further comprising: a patient couch; and wherein the control system is further configured to control reorientation of the patient couch as part of the at least partial matching of the field-free region to the target region.
33. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, wherein the control system is further configured to cause the excitation system to generate the excitation field in a manner that changes the actuation region.
34. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 33, wherein the excitation system includes a single RF coil; and wherein the control system is further configured to cause the excitation system to generate the excitation field with the single RF coil.
35. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 33, wherein the excitation system includes multiple independently controllable RF coils; and wherein the control system is further configured to cause the excitation system to generate the excitation field along multiple axes utilizing the multiple independently controllable RF coils.
36. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 33, wherein the excitation system includes a swappable cassette containing at least a portion of the excitation system.
37. The magnetic particle actuating system of claim 18, further comprising an RF shield disposed between a portion of the excitation system and a portion of the magnet system to reduce interference of the excitation system during the generation of the excitation field.
</claims>
</document>
