<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q10/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEINCKE, OLAF
LUECKHOFF HERMANN
SOUTHALL, ALAN
HETTEL, THOMAS
THANUMALAYAN, REGHU RAM
BHATIA, ANUBHAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62243936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA ANALYTICS SYSTEM USING INSIGHT PROVIDERS
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer-readable storage media for providing an insight provider including a logic component and a configuration component, the logic component including a domain-specific model, the configuration component including one or more parameter values for processing data using the domain-specific model, receiving a set of assets including data indicative of one or more assets, retrieving asset data associated with at least one asset of the first set of assets, the asset data including OT data and IT data, the OT data being provided from one or more networked devices, the IT data being provided from one or more enterprise systems, and processing the OT data and the IT data using the domain-specific model of the logic component to provide a result set, the result set including one or more of a second set of assets and enriched data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method for data analytics, the method being executed by one or more processors and comprising: providing an application comprising a first insight provider, the first insight provider comprising a first logic component a first domain-specific model that is specific to the first insight provider, and a first configuration component having one or more parameter values for processing data using the first domain-specific model; receiving, through a first graphical user interface (GUI) that is specific to the first insight provider, user input defining a first set of assets; receiving, in response to the user input, first data representative of the first set of assets; retrieving asset data associated with at least one asset of the first set of assets; querying, by the first logic component, one or more data sources based on an identifier that uniquely identifies an asset in the first set of assets; receiving, by the first logic component and responsive to querying the one or more data sources, additional data associated with the asset; and generating a first result set at least partially based on processing the additional data using the first domain-specific model of the first logic component, the first result set comprising one or more of enriched data and second data representative of a second set of assets.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising providing the first result set as input to a second insight provider of the application, the second insight provider providing a second result set at least partially based on the first result set.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the first insight provider and the second insight provider are included in an insight provider pipeline.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the first insight provider executes in a data enrichment mode, and the first result set comprises the enriched data.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein the first insight provider executes in a filter mode, and the first result set comprises the second set of assets.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the data indicative of one or more assets at least partially comprises identifiers respectively assigned to the one or more assets.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the first insight provider further comprises a visualization component, the visualization component providing one or more graphical representations for display in the first GUI that is specific to the first insight provider, the one or more graphical representations being at least partially based on the first result set.
28. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for data analytics, the operations comprising: providing an application comprising a first insight provider, the first insight provider comprising a first logic component a first domain-specific model that is specific to the first insight provider, and a first configuration component having one or more parameter values for processing data using the first domain-specific model; receiving, through a first graphical user interface (GUI) that is specific to the first insight provider, user input defining a first set of assets; receiving, in response to the user input, first data representative of the first set of assets; retrieving asset data associated with at least one asset of the first set of assets; querying, by the first logic component, one or more data sources based on an identifier that uniquely identifies an asset in the first set of assets; receiving, by the first logic component and responsive to querying the one or more data sources, additional data associated with the asset; and generating a first result set at least partially based on processing the additional data using the first domain-specific model of the first logic component, the first result set comprising one or more of enriched data and second data representative of a second set of assets.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein operations further comprise providing the first result set as input to a second insight provider of the application, the second insight provider providing a second result set at least partially based on the first result set.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 29, wherein the first insight provider and the second insight provider are included in an insight provider pipeline.
31. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the first insight provider executes in a data enrichment mode, and the first result set comprises the enriched data.
32. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the first insight provider executes in a filter mode, and the first result set comprises the second set of assets.
33. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the data indicative of one or more assets at least partially comprises identifiers respectively assigned to the one or more assets.
34. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 28, wherein the first insight provider further comprises a visualization component, the visualization component providing one or more graphical representations for display in the first GUI that is specific to the first insight provider, the one or more graphical representations being at least partially based on the first result set.
35. A system, comprising: a computing device; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the computing device and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations for data analytics, the operations comprising: providing an application comprising a first insight provider, the first insight provider comprising a first logic component a first domain-specific model that is specific to the first insight provider, and a first configuration component having one or more parameter values for processing data using the first domain-specific model; receiving, through a first graphical user interface (GUI) that is specific to the first insight provider, user input defining a first set of assets; receiving, in response to the user input, first data representative of the first set of assets; retrieving asset data associated with at least one asset of the first set of assets; querying, by the first logic component, one or more data sources based on an identifier that uniquely identifies an asset in the first set of assets; receiving, by the first logic component and responsive to querying the one or more data sources, additional data associated with the asset; and generating a first result set at least partially based on processing the additional data using the first domain-specific model of the first logic component, the first result set comprising one or more of enriched data and second data representative of a second set of assets.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein operations further comprise providing the first result set as input to a second insight provider of the application, the second insight provider providing a second result set at least partially based on the first result set.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein the first insight provider and the second insight provider are included in an insight provider pipeline.
38. The system of claim 35, wherein the first insight provider executes in a data enrichment mode, and the first result set comprises the enriched data.
39. The system of claim 35, wherein the first insight provider executes in a filter mode, and the first result set comprises the second set of assets.
40. The system of claim 35, wherein the data indicative of one or more assets at least partially comprises identifiers respectively assigned to the one or more assets.
</claims>
</document>
