<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-02-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/36,A61N1/372
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
STYPULKOWSKI, PAUL, H.
DENISON, TIMOTHY, J.
GIFTAKIS, JONATHON, E.
STANSLASKI, SCOTT R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
48982844
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BRAIN STIMULATION RESPONSE PROFILING
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments concern delivering electrical stimulation to the brain at a plurality of different levels of a stimulation parameter and sensing a bioelectrical response of the brain to delivery of the electrical stimulation for each of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter. A suppression window of the stimulation parameter can be identified as having a suppression threshold as a lower boundary and an after-discharge threshold as an upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical responses. A therapy level of the stimulation parameter can be set for therapy delivery based on the suppression window. The therapy level of the stimulation parameter may be set closer to the suppression threshold than the after-discharge threshold within the suppression window. Data for hippocampal stimulation demonstrating a suppression window is presented.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-20. (canceled)
21. A method comprising: controlling stimulation circuitry to deliver electrical stimulation to a brain at a plurality of different levels of a stimulation parameter; sensing, using one or more electrodes, bioelectrical brain activity of the brain, wherein sensing the bioelectrical brain activity of the brain comprises sensing a bioelectrical response of the brain to the delivery of the electrical stimulation at each of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter; identifying a window of the stimulation parameter having a first threshold as a lower boundary and an unwanted provocation threshold as an upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical brain activity; and setting a therapy level of the stimulation parameter for delivery of electrical stimulation therapy to the brain based on the window, wherein sensing, delivering, identifying, and setting are each performed at least in part by control circuitry.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein sensing the bioelectrical response comprises sensing an unwanted provocation resulting from the delivery of the electrical stimulation at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein identifying the window of the stimulation parameter comprises determining the unwanted provocation threshold based on the at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter that resulted in the sensed unwanted provocation.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein sensing the unwanted provocation resulting from the delivery of the electrical stimulation comprises sensing an adverse side effect resulting from stimulation of a volume of tissue in the brain with the delivery of the electrical stimulation at the at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the volume of tissue comprises a non-targeted tissue.
26. The method of claim 21, wherein the first threshold comprises a therapeutic effect threshold at which a therapeutic effect is produced by the electrical stimulation.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the sensing, using the one or more electrodes, the bioelectrical brain activity of the brain comprises periodically sensing, using the one or more electrodes, the bioelectrical brain activity of the brain, and wherein the identifying the window of the stimulation parameter having the first threshold as the lower boundary and the unwanted provocation threshold as the upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises periodically identifying the unwanted provocation threshold as the upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical brain activity such that the upper boundary is periodically adjusted.
28. The method of claim 21, further comprising determining a frequency domain characteristic of the sensed bioelectrical brain activity, wherein identifying the window of the stimulation parameter having the first threshold as the lower boundary and the unwanted provocation threshold as the upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises identifying the window of the stimulation parameter having the first threshold as the lower boundary and the unwanted provocation threshold as the upper boundary based on the determined frequency domain characteristic.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the frequency domain characteristic of the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises at least one of a power level in one or more frequency bands of the sensed bioelectrical brain activity or a ratio of power levels in at least two frequency bands of the sensed bioelectrical brain activity.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the frequency domain characteristic of the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises at least one of a power level in the beta band or a ratio of power levels between the beta band and another frequency band.
31. The method of claim 21, wherein the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises sensed local field potential signals.
32. The method of claim 21, wherein the stimulation parameter is a stimulation amplitude.
33. The method of claim 21, further comprising controlling the stimulation circuitry to deliver the electrical stimulation therapy to the brain of the patient with the set therapy level of the stimulation parameter.
34. A system comprising: one or more electrodes; stimulation circuitry configured to generate electrical stimulation; and control circuitry configured to: control the stimulation circuitry to deliver the electrical stimulation to a brain at a plurality of different levels of a stimulation parameter; sense, using the one or more electrodes, bioelectrical brain activity of the brain, wherein sensing the bioelectrical brain activity of the brain comprises sensing a bioelectrical response of the brain to the delivery of the electrical stimulation at each of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter; identify a window of the stimulation parameter having a first threshold as a lower boundary and an unwanted provocation threshold as an upper boundary based on the sensed bioelectrical brain activity; and set a level of the stimulation parameter for the delivery of electrical stimulation therapy to the brain based on the window.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the control circuitry is configured to sense, using the one or more electrodes, an unwanted provocation resulting from the delivery of the electrical stimulation at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the control circuitry is configured to determine the unwanted provocation threshold based on the at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter that resulted in the sensed unwanted provocation.
37. The system of claim 35, wherein, to sense the unwanted provocation resulting from the delivery of the electrical stimulation, the control circuitry is configured to sense an adverse side effect resulting from stimulation of a volume of tissue in the brain with the delivery of the electrical stimulation at the at least one level of the plurality of different levels of the stimulation parameter.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the volume of tissue comprises a non-targeted tissue.
39. The system of claim 34, wherein the first threshold comprises a therapeutic effect threshold at which a therapeutic effect is produced by the stimulation.
40. The system of claim 34, wherein the sensed bioelectrical brain activity comprises sensed local field potential signals.
</claims>
</document>
