<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/725,H04W4/80,H04W40/24,H04W76/14,H04W8/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JEON, SEUNG YOUNG
KANG, DOO SUK
KIM, GEON SOO
KIM, HAN JIB
KIM, Seung Nyun
KIM, Young Kyoo
CHOI, Gyu Cheol
LEE, Cheong Jae
CHOI, Bo Kun
LEE, Sun Kee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66632061
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR PROVIDING CONTENT AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR SUPPORTING SAME
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device according to various embodiments of the present disclosure includes: a housing; a user interface exposed through a portion of the housing; at least one communication circuit configured to discover and connect to another electronic device wirelessly without an access point or a base station; at least one processor operatively connected with the user interface and the communication circuit; and a memory operatively connected with the processor, wherein, when being executed, the memory stores instructions that cause the processor to transmit a plurality of first beacon signals for wireless connection by using the communication circuit during first time periods, to detect at least one second beacon signal for wireless connection, transmitted from an external device, by using the communication circuit, during one period of second time periods which are different from the first time periods, to receive multimedia data from an external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal, and to output at least one of an audio, an image, or a video based at least in part on the multimedia data. Other embodiments are possible.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a housing; a user interface exposed through a portion of the housing; at least one communication circuit configured to discover and connect to another electronic device wirelessly without an access point or a base station; at least one processor operatively connected with the user interface and the communication circuit; and a memory operatively connected with the processor, wherein, when being executed, the memory stores instructions that cause the processor to transmit a plurality of first beacon signals for wireless connection by using the communication circuit during first time periods, to detect at least one second beacon signal for wireless connection, transmitted from an external device, by using the communication circuit, during one period of second time periods which are different from the first time periods, to receive multimedia data from an external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal, and to output at least one of an audio, an image, or a video based at least in part on the multimedia data.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the memory stores instructions that cause the processor to transmit information regarding the external device to the external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions that cause the processor to determine that the at least one second beacon signal is not detected anymore, and, when it is determined that the at least one second beacon signal is not detected anymore, to stop outputting at least one of the audio, the image, or the video.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise first information regarding the electronic device, and the first information comprises at least one of a MAC address of the electronic device, or a UUID of the electronic device.
5. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the user interface further comprises a speaker, and wherein the multimedia data comprises at least one of sound data or music data.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the user interface further comprises a display, and wherein the multimedia data comprises at least one of image data or video data.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores instructions that cause the processor to periodically receive identities related to multimedia data from the external server.
8. The electronic device of claim 7, wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise the identities.
9. A method for providing a content in an electronic device, the method comprising: transmitting a plurality of first beacon signals for wireless connection by using a communication circuit during first time periods; detecting at least one second beacon signal for wireless connection, transmitted from an external device, by using the communication circuit, during one period of second time periods which are different from the first time periods; receiving multimedia data from an external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal; and outputting at least one of an audio, an image, or a video based at least in part on the multimedia data.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising transmitting information regarding the external device to the external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining that the at least one second beacon signal is not detected anymore; and when it is determined that the at least one second beacon signal is not detected anymore, stopping outputting at least one of the audio, the image, or the video.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise first information regarding the electronic device, and the first information comprises at least one of a MAC address of the electronic device, or a UUID of the electronic device.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the multimedia data is determined based at least in part on profile information of a user of the external device.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the electronic device is configured to support BLE.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising periodically receiving identities related to the multimedia data from the external server.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise the identities.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein the electronic device is configured to support NAN.
18. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the communication circuit is configured to support NAN.
19. An electronic device comprising: a housing; a user interface exposed through a portion of the housing; at least one communication circuit configured to discover and connect to another electronic device wirelessly without an access point or a base station; at least one processor operatively connected with the user interface and the communication circuit; and a memory operatively connected with the processor, wherein, when being executed, the memory stores instructions that cause the processor to transmit a plurality of first beacon signals for wireless connection by using the communication circuit during first time periods, to detect at least one second beacon signal for wireless connection, transmitted from an external device, by using the communication circuit, during one period of second time periods which are different from the first time periods, to transmit information regarding the external device to an external server after detecting the at least one second beacon signal, and to receive information regarding multimedia data to be outputted by the external device from the external server.
20. The electronic device of claim 19, wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise first information regarding the external device, and the first information comprises at least one of a MAC address of the external device, or a UUID of the external device, and wherein the plurality of first beacon signals comprise identities related to the multimedia data periodically transmitted to the external device by the external server.
</claims>
</document>
