<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEUSTAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
SENA, JR., GUIDO JONJIE S.
Maharishi, Manjul
Sharma, Gaurav
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72662543
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATICALLY AUTHENTICATING COMMUNICATIONS WITH A CALLING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for automatically authenticating an incoming call are disclosed. In one implementation a method for automatically authenticating an incoming call includes receiving a call from a calling device. The call includes an identifier associated with the calling device. The method further includes receiving, separately from the call, authentication data associated with a device or a user, determining, using the identifier and the authentication data, that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call, verifying the authentication data, and based on a result of the verification, determining that the call is initiated by an authenticated device or user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically authenticating an incoming call, the method comprising: receiving, at a first subsystem, a call from a calling device, wherein the call includes an identifier associated with the calling device; receiving, at a second subsystem separate from the first subsystem and separately from the call, authentication data associated with a device or a user; determining, using the identifier and the authentication data, that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call; verifying the authentication data; and based on a result of the verification, determining that the call is initiated by an authenticated device or user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier includes at least one of: (i) a phone number of the calling device and (ii) a Caller ID Name (CNAM) associated with the phone number of the calling device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the authentication data includes a second identifier, the second identifier including at least one of: (i) a phone number associated with the device or the user, (ii) a device identifier associated with the device, (iii) a user identifier associated with the user, and (iv) an identifier associated with a software program executing on the device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the authentication data includes a user identifier and a password.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the authentication data includes a shared secret.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the verification of the authentication data includes accessing an authentication database.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determination that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call includes comparing the identifier of the call with an identifier included in the authentication data.
8. A system for generating context data associated with a communications session, the system comprising: one or more processors configured to: receiving, at a first subsystem, a call from a calling device, wherein the call includes an identifier associated with the calling device; receiving, at a second subsystem separate from the first subsystem and separately from the call, authentication data associated with a device or a user; determine, using the identifier and the authentication data, that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call; verify the authentication data; and based on a result of the verification, determine that the call is initiated by an authenticated device or user.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the identifier includes at least one of: (i) a phone number of the calling device and (ii) a Caller ID Name (CNAM) associated with the phone number of the calling device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the authentication data includes a second identifier, the second identifier including at least one of: (i) a phone number associated with the device or the user, (ii) a device identifier associated with the device, (iii) a user identifier associated with the user, and (iv) an identifier associated with a software program executing on the device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the authentication data includes a user identifier and a password.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the authentication data includes a shared secret.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the verification of the authentication data includes accessing an authentication database.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the determination that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call includes comparing the identifier of the call with an identifier included in the authentication data.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium stores instructions that when executed by a computer may cause the computer to perform a method for generating context data associated with a communications session, the method comprising: receiving, at a first subsystem, a call from a calling device, wherein the call includes an identifier associated with the calling device; receiving, at a second subsystem separate from the first subsystem and separately from the call, authentication data associated with a device or a user; determining, using the identifier and the authentication data, that the authentication data is associated with the same calling device that initiated the call; verifying the authentication data; and based on a result of the verification, determining that the call is initiated by an authenticated device or user.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the identifier includes at least one of: (i) a phone number of the calling device and (ii) a Caller ID Name (CNAM) associated with the phone number of the calling device.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the authentication data includes a second identifier, the second identifier including at least one of: (i) a phone number associated with the device or the user, (ii) a device identifier associated with the device, (iii) a user identifier associated with the user, and (iv) an identifier associated with a software program executing on the device.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the authentication data includes a user identifier and a password.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the authentication data includes a shared secret.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the verification of the authentication data includes accessing an authentication database.
</claims>
</document>
