<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIRMANI, SHAD
SHANKAR, MANOHARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63671811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING KEYWORDS BY ASSOCIATIVE CONTEXT WITH INPUT WORDS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for accessing a plurality of inventory item listings accessible over a network, wherein each of the plurality of inventory item listings includes one or more text strings, and creating inventory word vectors for at least some of the text strings of the plurality of inventory item listings. The systems and methods further provide for receiving a user input including an input word, wherein the user input is input by a user to access a primary media content, creating an input word vector for the input word, calculating cosine similarities between the input word vector and the inventory word vectors, and analyzing the calculated cosine similarities to determine one or more keywords from the one or more text strings, wherein the one or more keywords are from the text strings having inventory word vectors with the highest cosine similarities to the input word vector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from a client device, a user input that comprises a text string; calculating, by one or more processors, a plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of a plurality of additional text strings; identifying, by the one or more processors, a plurality of words from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the plurality of cosine similarities; and outputting a search result comprising information associated with the plurality of words.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sorting, by the one or more processors, the plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of the plurality of additional text strings; and identifying a subset of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on sorting the plurality of cosine similarities, wherein the plurality of words are identified from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the subset.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: creating a first word vector from a first string of the plurality of additional text strings; creating a second word vector from the text string; and calculating a first cosine similarity of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on the first word vector and the second word vector.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein creating the first word vector further comprises: identifying one or more special characters in the first string; and creating the first word vector that excludes the one or more special characters.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting an advertisement based at least in part on identifying the plurality of words, wherein outputting the search result comprises outputting the search result comprising the advertisement.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the search result further comprises: outputting the search result comprising a media content.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the search result further comprises: outputting the search result comprising one or more listings from an online marketplace.
8. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory device storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a client device, a user input that comprises a text string; calculating a plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of a plurality of additional text strings; identifying a plurality of words from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the plurality of cosine similarities; and outputting a search result comprising information associated with the plurality of words.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: sorting the plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of the plurality of additional text strings; and identifying a subset of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on sorting the plurality of cosine similarities, wherein the plurality of words are identified from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the subset.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: creating a first word vector from a first string of the plurality of additional text strings; creating a second word vector from the text string; and calculating a first cosine similarity of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on the first word vector and the second word vector.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions to create the first word vector are further executable to perform operations comprising: identifying one or more special characters in the first string; and creating the first word vector that excludes the one or more special characters.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: selecting an advertisement based at least in part on identifying the plurality of words, wherein outputting the search result comprises outputting the search result comprising the advertisement.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions to output the search result are further executable to perform operations comprising: outputting the search result comprising a media content.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions to output the search result are further executable to perform operations comprising: outputting the search result comprising one or more listings from an online marketplace.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a machine to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a client device, a user input that comprises a text string; calculating, by one or more processors, a plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of a plurality of additional text strings; identifying, by the one or more processors, a plurality of words from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the plurality of cosine similarities; and outputting a search result comprising information associated with the plurality of words.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: sorting, by the one or more processors, the plurality of cosine similarities between the text string and each additional text string of the plurality of additional text strings; and identifying a subset of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on sorting the plurality of cosine similarities, wherein the plurality of words are identified from the plurality of additional text strings based at least in part on the subset.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: creating a first word vector from a first string of the plurality of additional text strings; creating a second word vector from the text string; and calculating a first cosine similarity of the plurality of cosine similarities based at least in part on the first word vector and the second word vector.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions to create the first word vector are further executable to perform operations comprising: identifying one or more special characters in the first string; and creating the first word vector that excludes the one or more special characters.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further executable to perform operations comprising: selecting an advertisement based at least in part on identifying the plurality of words, wherein outputting the search result comprises outputting the search result comprising the advertisement.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions to output the search result are further executable to perform operations comprising: outputting the search result comprising a media content or one or more listings from an online marketplace.
</claims>
</document>
