<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JADHAV, SURAJ GOVIND
LI, CHUNG-SHENG
DASAPPA, GURUPRASAD
SHROFF, MANOJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69641307
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REPORT GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, in response to occurrence of a report generation event, a report may be generated. An aspect of the report requiring a description may be identified, the aspect being at least one of a trend noted in the report and a discrepancy in the report. A hypothesis explaining the aspect of the report may be generated. Further, an evidence may be collected for the hypothesis, based on a relation between entities of the hypothesis, the relation being determined based on a knowledge data having information pertaining to the entities. The hypothesis may be evaluated generate an evaluation score, based on the collected evidence. Based on the evaluation score, the hypothesis may be selected for explaining the aspect. The selected hypothesis may be provided in natural language text explaining the aspect of the report, based on at least one of the domain and user knowledge and linguistic knowledge.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A report generation system comprising: a processor; a report generator coupled to the processor to generate a report, in response to occurrence of a report generation event; a report analyzer coupled to the processor to, identify an aspect of the report requiring a description, the aspect being at least one of a trend noted in the report and a discrepancy in the report; generate a hypothesis explaining the aspect of the report, using at least one of an abductive reasoning, deductive reasoning, and inductive reasoning; collect an evidence for the hypothesis, based on a relation between entities of the hypothesis, the relation being determined based on a knowledge data having information pertaining to the entities; evaluate the hypothesis to generate an evaluation score, based on the collected evidence; and select the hypothesis for explaining the aspect, based on the evaluation score; and a narrative synthesizer coupled to the processor to, provide the selected hypothesis in natural language text explaining the aspect of the report, based on at least one of the domain and user knowledge and linguistic knowledge; and associate the narrative with the aspect of the report.
2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the report generator is to determine a type of the report, and wherein the report is generated, based on the determined type.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the report analyzer is to perform context augmentation of entities and relationship between the entities of the hypothesis to collect the evidence.
4. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the narrative synthesizer comprises: a text planner to generate a text plan for the selected hypothesis, based on the domain and the user knowledge; a sentence planner to generate a sentence plan, based on the text plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge; and a sentence realizer to generate the narrative in the natural language text, based on the sentence plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge.
5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the report analyzer is to implement a financial statement analysis tool to determine the aspect, the financial statement analysis tool being one of a horizontal analysis tool, a vertical analysis tool, and a ratio analysis tool.
6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the report analyzer is to ascertain whether a threshold number of aspects are identified, and when the threshold number of aspects are identified, the report analysis is performed recursively until a predefined set of aspects from among the threshold number of aspects are explained.
7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the report generator is to: collect data relevant to the report from a data source; and perform at least one of data model transformation, data cleansing, and data normalization to make the data in the report comparable for report analysis.
8. A method for generating reports comprising: generating a report, in response to occurrence of a report generation event; identifying an aspect of the report requiring a description, the aspect being at least one of a trend noted in the report and a discrepancy in the report; generating a hypothesis explaining the aspect of the report, using at least one of an abductive reasoning, deductive reasoning, and inductive reasoning; collecting an evidence for the hypothesis, based on a relation between entities of the hypothesis, the relation being determined based on a knowledge data having information pertaining to the entities; evaluating the hypothesis to generate an evaluation score, based on the collected evidence; selecting the hypothesis for explaining the aspect, based on the evaluation score; providing the selected hypothesis in natural language text explaining the aspect of the report, based on at least one of the domain and user knowledge and linguistic knowledge; and associating the narrative with the aspect of the report.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein generating the report further comprises determining a type of the report, and wherein the report is generated, based on the determined type.
10. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein collecting the evidence comprises performing context augmentation of entities and relationship between the entities of the hypothesis.
11. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein providing the narrative in the natural language text comprises: generating a text plan for the selected hypothesis, based on the domain and the user knowledge; generating a sentence plan, based on the text plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge; and generating the narrative in the natural language text, based on the sentence plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge.
12. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein identifying the aspect comprises implementing a financial statement analysis tool to determine the aspect, the financial statement analysis tool being one of a horizontal analysis tool, a vertical analysis tool, and a ratio analysis tool.
13. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the method further comprises ascertaining whether a threshold number of aspects are identified, and when the threshold number of aspects are identified, report analysis, comprising hypothesis generation, is performed recursively until a predefined set of aspects from among the threshold number of aspects are explained.
14. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein generating the report comprises: collecting data relevant to the report from a data source; and performing at least one of data model transformation, data cleansing, and data normalization to make the data in the report comparable for report analysis.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium including machine readable instructions that are executable by a processor to: generate a report, in response to occurrence of a report generation event; identify an aspect of the report requiring a description, the aspect being at least one of a trend noted in the report and a discrepancy in the report; generate a hypothesis explaining the aspect of the report, using at least one of an abductive reasoning, deductive reasoning, and inductive reasoning; collect an evidence for the hypothesis, based on a relation between entities of the hypothesis, the relation being determined based on a knowledge data having information pertaining to the entities; evaluate the hypothesis to generate an evaluation score, based on the collected evidence; select the hypothesis for explaining the aspect, based on the evaluation score; provide the selected hypothesis in natural language text explaining the aspect of the report, based on at least one of the domain and user knowledge and linguistic knowledge; and associate the narrative with the aspect of the report.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein to collect the evidence the processor is to perform context augmentation of entities and relationship between the entities of the hypothesis.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processor is to determine a type of the report, and wherein the report is generated, based on the determined type.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processor is to: generate a text plan for the selected hypothesis, based on the domain and the user knowledge; generate a sentence plan, based on the text plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge; and generate the narrative in the natural language text, based on the sentence plan, using at least one of the domain and the user knowledge and the linguistic knowledge.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processor is to implement a financial statement analysis tool to determine the aspect, the financial statement analysis tool being one of a horizontal analysis tool, a vertical analysis tool, and a ratio analysis tool.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium as claimed in claim 15, wherein the processor is to ascertain whether a threshold number of aspects are identified, and when the threshold number of aspects are identified, report analysis, comprising hypothesis generation, is performed recursively until a predefined set of aspects from among the threshold number of aspects are explained.
</claims>
</document>
