<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01C7/08,A01C7/10,A01C7/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CNH INDUSTRIAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSON, CHAD M.
Schoeny, Christopher
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74101477
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND RELATED SYSTEMS FOR AUTOMATICALLY CALIBRATING SEED METERS
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a calibration method for a seed meter may include controlling an operation of a singulator to apply an initial aggressiveness setting for the singulator. The method may further include controlling the seed meter to rotate a seed transport member of the seed meter relative to a seed chamber of the seed meter containing a plurality of seeds. The method may additionally include performing a calibration cycle, which may include monitoring a first parameter indicative of a number of occurrences of seed multiples as the seed transport member rotates, iteratively adjusting the aggressiveness setting from the initial aggressiveness setting as the first parameter is being monitored, and when the first parameter crosses a first threshold, recording the associated aggressiveness setting as a minimum aggressiveness setting for the singulator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A calibration method for a seed meter of an agricultural implement, the method comprising: controlling, with a computing device, an operation of a singulator for a seed meter to apply an initial aggressiveness setting for the singulator; controlling, with the computing device, an operation of the seed meter to rotate a seed transport member relative to a seed chamber of the seed meter, the seed transport member of the seed meter defining a plurality of seed cells, the seed chamber containing a plurality of seeds; performing, with the computing device, a calibration cycle for the seed meter, the calibration cycle comprising: monitoring, with the computing device, a first parameter indicative of a number of occurrences of seed multiples associated with operation of the seed meter as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber; iteratively adjusting, with the computing device, the aggressiveness setting applied for the singulator from the initial aggressiveness setting as the first parameter is being monitored; and when the first parameter crosses a first threshold, recording, with the computing device, the associated aggressiveness setting as a minimum aggressiveness setting for the singulator.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the calibration cycle further comprises: monitoring, with the computing device, a second parameter indicative of a number of empty seed cells of the plurality of seed cells as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber; iteratively adjusting, with the computing device, the aggressiveness setting for the singulator as the second parameter is being monitored; and when the second parameter crosses a second threshold, recording, with the computing device, the associated aggressiveness setting as a maximum aggressiveness setting for the singulator.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining, with the computing device, a target range for the aggressiveness setting for the singulator based at least in part on the minimum aggressiveness setting and the maximum aggressiveness setting.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: executing, with the computing device, one or more additional calibration cycles for the seed meter; comparing, with the computing device, the minimum aggressiveness settings and the maximum aggressiveness settings determined for the calibration cycle and for each of the additional calibration cycles; and determining, with the computing device, a target range for the aggressiveness setting for the singulator based at least in part on the comparison of the minimum aggressiveness settings and maximum aggressiveness settings determined for the calibration cycle and for each of the additional calibration cycles.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein each iterative adjustment of the calibration cycle is an iterative increase, wherein the one or more additional calibration cycles may include at least one reverse singulator calibration cycle, each iterative adjustment of the at least one reverse calibration cycle being an iterative decrease.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein a first sensor is configured to detect the first parameter indicative of the number of occurrences of seed multiples being released from the seed transport member, and a second sensor is configured to detect the second parameter indicative of the number of empty seed cells of the plurality of seed cells, the first sensor differing from the second sensor.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the first sensor comprises seed delivery sensor, and the second sensor comprises at least one of a pre-singulation sensor or a post-singulation sensor.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein a common sensor is configured to detect the first and second parameters.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: executing, with the computing device, one or more additional calibration cycles for the seed meter; comparing, with the computing device, the minimum aggressiveness settings determined for the calibration cycle and each of the additional calibration cycles; and determining, with the computing device, an adjusted minimum aggressiveness setting based at least in part on the comparison of the minimum aggressiveness settings determined for the calibration cycle and each of the additional calibration cycles.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the initial aggressiveness setting corresponds to an aggressiveness setting within a passive range of aggressiveness settings for the singulator.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the implement is stationary during the performance of the calibration cycle.
12. A calibration method for a seed meter of an agricultural implement, the method comprising: controlling, with a computing device, an operation of a singulator for a seed meter to apply an initial aggressiveness setting for the singulator; controlling, with the computing device, an operation of the seed meter to rotate a seed transport member relative to a seed chamber of the seed meter, the seed transport member of the seed meter defining a plurality of seed cells, the seed chamber containing a plurality of seeds; performing, with the computing device, a calibration cycle for the seed meter, the calibration cycle comprising: monitoring, with the computing device, a first parameter indicative of a number of occurrences of seed multiples associated with the operation of the seed meter as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber; monitoring, with the computing device, a second parameter indicative of a number of empty seed cells of the plurality of seed cells as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber; iteratively adjusting, with the computing device, the aggressiveness setting for the singulator from the initial aggressiveness setting as the first and second parameters are being monitored; and recording, with the computing device, at least one aggressiveness setting for the singulator that is associated with at least one of the first parameter or the second parameter crossing a predetermined threshold defined for the at least one of the first parameter or the second parameter.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the aggressiveness setting for the singulator is recorded as a minimum aggressiveness setting of the at least one aggressiveness setting when the first parameter crosses a first threshold.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the aggressiveness setting for the singulator is recorded as a maximum aggressiveness setting of the at least one aggressiveness setting when the second parameter crosses a second threshold.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the aggressiveness setting for the singulator is recorded as a minimum aggressiveness setting of the at least one aggressiveness setting when the first parameter crosses a first threshold and as a maximum aggressiveness setting of the at least one aggressiveness setting when the second parameter crosses a second threshold, the method further comprising determining, with the computing device, a target range for the aggressiveness setting for the singulator based at least in part on the minimum aggressiveness setting and the maximum aggressiveness setting.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: executing, with the computing device, one or more additional calibration cycles for the seed meter; comparing, with the computing device, the aggressiveness settings associated with the at least one of the first parameter or the second parameter crossing the predetermined threshold defined for the at least one of the first parameter or the second parameter determined for the calibration cycle and each of the one or more additional calibration cycles; and determining, with the computing device, at least one adjusted aggressiveness setting for the singulator based at least in part on the comparison.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more additional calibration cycles may include at least one reverse singulator calibration cycle.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the initial aggressiveness setting for the singulator corresponds to a passive aggressiveness setting for the singulator.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the implement is stationary during the performance of the calibration cycle.
20. A calibration method for a seed meter of an agricultural implement, the seed meter comprising an air pressure source having a plurality of air pressure settings, the seed meter further comprising a singulator having a plurality of aggressiveness settings, the method comprising: controlling, with a computing device, an operation of the air pressure source and an operation of the singulator to apply a plurality of combinations of air pressure settings and aggressiveness settings to a seed transport member of the seed meter, the seed transport member defining a plurality of seed cells, each combination of the plurality of combinations comprising a combination of one air pressure setting of the plurality of air pressure settings and one aggressiveness setting of the plurality of aggressiveness settings; controlling, with the computing device, an operation of the seed meter to rotate the seed transport member relative to a seed chamber of the seed meter, the seed chamber containing a plurality of seeds; recording, with the computing device, empty cell data associated with a number of empty seed cells of the plurality of seed cells as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber for each of the plurality of combinations of air pressure settings and aggressiveness settings applied thereto; recording, with the computing device, seed multiples data associated with a number of occurrences of seed multiples as the seed transport member is rotated relative to the seed chamber for each combination of the plurality of combinations of air pressure settings and aggressiveness settings applied thereto; and determining, with the computing device, at least one desired combination of settings from the plurality of combinations of air pressure settings and aggressiveness settings for the singulator based on an analysis of the empty cell data and the seed multiples data.
</claims>
</document>
