<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T19/00,G08B7/06,G09B19/06,G09B5/02,G10L15/00,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
RAY, SHUBHADIP
SANYAL, AVIK
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUGMENTED REALITY TECHNIQUES FOR SIMULTANEOUSLY LEARNING MULTIPLE LANGUAGES
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for using augmented reality for assisting speech development of multiple languages includes analyzing speech recorded in an environment to detect a word used in a conversation between a first speaker and a second speaker that is in a language different from other words in the conversation, wherein a target user is in the environment with the first speaker and the second speaker, isolating an object associated with the word within an augmented reality environment of the target user located in the environment, determining a confusion level of the target user based on a use of the word in the conversation, and implementing, by the processor, an augmented reality technique based on the confusion level of the target user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: analyzing, by a processor of a computing system, speech recorded in an environment to detect a word used in a conversation between a first speaker and a second speaker that is in a language different from other words in the conversation, wherein a target user is in the environment with the first speaker and the second speaker; isolating, by the processor, an object associated with the word within an augmented reality environment of the target user located in the environment; determining, by the processor, a confusion level of the target user based on a use of the word in the conversation; and implementing, by the processor, an augmented reality technique based on the confusion level of the target user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: rendering, by the processor, a text translation of the word in the augmented reality of the target user, which assists the target user in learning the word in multiple languages.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: initiating, by the processor, an augmented reality game within the augmented reality of the target user to distract the target user from the conversation.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the initiating the augmented reality game includes: dynamically creating, by the processor, a gaming context within the augmented reality of the target user that navigates the target user away from the first speaker and the second speaker; wherein a distance that the target user is navigated away from the conversation correlates to a loudness of the conversation.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolating includes: searching, by the processor, for an object in the environment that correlates to the word detected as a function of the analyzing, by processing environmental data received from a plurality of input mechanisms installed in an environment; and alerting, by the processor, the target user to a location of the object within the environment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the isolating includes: generating, by the processor, an object in the augmented reality environment of the target user that correlates to the word detected as a function of the analyzing.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the confusion level of the target user is predicted by detecting a mobility behavior and a facial expression of the target user in response to isolating the object associated with the word.
8. (canceled)
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: rendering, by the processor, a text translation of the word in the augmented reality of the target user, which assists the target user in learning the word in multiple languages.
10. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: initiating, by the processor, an augmented reality game within the augmented reality of the target user to distract the target user from the conversation.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the initiating the augmented reality game includes: dynamically creating, by the processor, a gaming context within the augmented reality of the target user that navigates the target user away from the first speaker and the second speaker; wherein a distance that the target user is navigated away from the conversation correlates to a loudness of the conversation.
12. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the isolating includes: searching, by the processor, for an object in the environment that correlates to the word detected as a function of the analyzing, by processing environmental data received from a plurality of input mechanisms installed in an environment; and alerting, by the processor, the target user to a location of the object within the environment.
13. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the isolating includes: generating, by the processor, an object in the augmented reality environment of the target user that correlates to the word detected as a function of the analyzing.
14. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the confusion level of the target user is predicted by detecting a mobility behavior and a facial expression of the target user in response to isolating the object associated with the word.
15. The computing system of claim 8, further comprising: creating, by the processor, a profile of the target user over time, and comparing the profile of the target user to a database of profiles of other target users to assist in determining the confusion level of the target user.
16. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable hardware storage device storing a computer readable program code, the computer readable program code comprising an algorithm that when executed by a computer processor of a computing system implements a method comprising: analyzing, by a processor of a computing system, speech recorded in an environment to detect a word used in a conversation between a first speaker and a second speaker that is in a language different from other words in the conversation, wherein a target user is in the environment with the first speaker and the second speaker; isolating, by the processor, an object associated with the word within an augmented reality environment of the target user located in the environment; determining, by the processor, a confusion level of the target user based on a use of the word in the conversation; and implementing, by the processor, an augmented reality technique based on the confusion level of the target user.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: rendering, by the processor, a text translation of the word in the augmented reality of the target user, which assists the target user in learning the word in multiple languages.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the augmented reality technique includes: initiating, by the processor, an augmented reality game within the augmented reality of the target user to distract the target user from the conversation.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the initiating the augmented reality game includes: dynamically creating, by the processor, a gaming context within the augmented reality of the target user that navigates the target user away from the first speaker and the second speaker; wherein a distance that the target user is navigated away from the conversation correlates to a loudness of the conversation.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the isolating includes: generating, by the processor, an object in the augmented reality environment of the target user that correlates to the word detected as a function of the analyzing.
</claims>
</document>
