<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ERNST & YOUNG U.S.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PALLA, RAVI KIRAN REDDY
DUFFY, NIGEL PAUL
POON, VINCENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72748048
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING BASED FILE RANKING METHODS AND SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-label ranking method includes receiving, at a processor and from a first set of artificial neural networks (ANNs), multiple signals representing a first set of ANN output pairs for a first label. A signal representing a second set of ANN output pairs for a second label different from the first label is received at the processor from a second set of ANNs different from the first set of ANNs, substantially concurrently with the first set of ANN output pairs. A first activation function is solved based on the first set of ANN output pairs, and a second activation function is solved based on the second set of ANN output pairs. Loss values are calculated based on the solved activations, and a mask is generated based on at least one ground truth label. A signal, including a representation of the mask, is sent from the processor to each of the sets of ANNs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, at a processor and from a first plurality of artificial neural networks (ANNs), a plurality of signals representing a first plurality of ANN output pairs uniquely associated with a first label and not associated with a second label different from the first label; receiving, at the processor, from a second plurality of ANNs different from the first plurality of ANNs, and substantially concurrently with the first plurality of ANN output pairs, a signal representing a second plurality of ANN output pairs uniquely associated with the second label and not associated with the first label; solving, at the processor, a first activation function based on the first plurality of ANN output pairs to produce a first solved activation function; solving, at the processor, a second activation function based on the second plurality of ANN output pairs to produce a second solved activation function; calculating, at the processor, loss values based on the first solved activation function and the second solved activation function; generating, at the processor, a mask based on at least one ground truth label; and transmitting a signal, including a representation of the mask, from the processor to each of the first plurality of ANNs and the second plurality of ANNs, such that the first plurality of ANNs and the second plurality of ANNs collectively refine a ranking model hosted by the first plurality of ANNs and the second plurality of ANNs.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first activation function or the second activation function includes a softmax function.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculating the loss values is performed using cross-entropy.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the loss values is further based on a ground truth associated with at least one of the first label or the second label.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the mask includes setting an indication that a portion of the mask will not cause an adjustment to a label weighting for at least one of an output pair from the first plurality of ANN output pairs or an output pair from the second plurality of ANN output pairs, the setting the indication being in response to detecting, at the processor, a lack of preference between outputs of at least one of an output pair from the first plurality of ANN output pairs or an output pair from the second plurality of ANN output pairs.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the mask includes setting an indication that a portion of the mask will cause an adjustment to a label weighting for at least one of an output pair from the first plurality of ANN output pairs or an output pair from the second plurality of ANN output pairs, the setting the indication being in response to detecting, at the processor, a preference between outputs of at least one of an output pair from the first plurality of ANN output pairs or an output pair from the second plurality of ANN output pairs.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first plurality of ANNs or the second plurality of ANNs includes a feed-forward ANN.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first plurality of ANNs or the second plurality of ANNs includes a multilayer perceptron (MLP).
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first plurality of ANNs or the second plurality of ANNs includes a convolution network (CN).
10. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory operably coupled to the processor and storing processor-executable instructions to: receive, at the processor, a plurality of artificial neural network (ANN) output pairs, each ANN output pair from the plurality of ANN output pairs associated with a different label from a plurality of labels; generate, at the processor, a mask based on the plurality of ANN output pairs, the generating including: for each ANN output pair from the plurality of ANN output pairs: detecting whether a first ANN output of that ANN output pair is preferred over a second ANN output of that ANN output pair, in response to detecting a lack of preference between the first ANN output and the second ANN output, setting an indication that a portion of the mask will not cause an adjustment to a label weighting for that ANN output pair, and in response to detecting a preference between the first ANN output and the second ANN output, setting an indication that the portion of the mask will cause an adjustment to the label weighting for that ANN output pair; and transmit a signal, including the mask, from the processor to each of the first ANN and the second ANN, such that the first ANN and the second ANN collectively update a ranking model hosted by the first ANN and the second ANN.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the generating the mask includes solving activation functions for each ANN output pair from the plurality of ANN output pairs.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the generating the mask is based on a ground truth associated with a label from the plurality of labels.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the plurality of ANN output pairs are received from a Siamese network including a first ANN and a second ANN.
14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein each label from the plurality of labels is associated with a portion of a contract.
15. A method, comprising: receiving, at a processor and from a plurality of artificial neural networks (ANNs), a plurality of signals representing an associated plurality of ANN output pairs associated with a label; calculating, at the processor, loss values based on the plurality of ANN output pairs; defining, at the processor, a mask based on at least one ground truth label; and transmitting a signal, including a representation of the mask, from the processor to each ANN from the plurality of ANNs, to update a ranking model of the plurality of ANNs.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of signals representing the associated plurality of ANN output pairs associated with the label is a first plurality of signals, the mask is a first mask, and the signal is a first signal, the method further comprising: receiving, at the processor, from the plurality of ANNs, and after the first plurality of signals, a second plurality of signals representing an associated plurality of ANN output pairs associated with the label; defining, at the processor and after the first mask, a second mask based on the second plurality of signals; and transmitting a second signal, including the second mask, from the processor to each ANN from the plurality of ANNs, for further refinement of the ranking model of the plurality of ANNs.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein at least one ANN from the plurality of ANNs is a multilayer perceptron (MLP).
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the generating the mask includes defining a portion of the mask such that no adjustment to a weighting of the label is applied.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein each ANN output pair from the plurality of ANN output pairs is generated by an associated multilayer perceptron (MLP).
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of ANN output pairs is associated with at least two different labels.
</claims>
</document>
