<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G06N20/00,G06N5/00,G07C5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUTONOMY
</assignee>

<inventors>
IAGNEMMA, KARL
RAVICHANDRAN, HARSHAVARDHAN
CHANG, HSUN-HSIEN
LIU, SHIH-YUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64656205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTERVENTION IN OPERATION OF A VEHICLE HAVING AUTONOMOUS DRIVING CAPABILITIES
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, a determination is made that intervention in an operation of one or more autonomous driving capabilities of a vehicle is appropriate. Based on the determination, a person is enabled to provide information for an intervention. The intervention is caused in the operation of the one or more autonomous driving capabilities of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a request for an intervention from a vehicle; treat a current location of the vehicle as a non-deterministic location having a conditional probability; identify a geolocation of the vehicle based on probabilistic reasoning using the conditional probability; and intervene in an operation of an autonomous driving capability of the vehicle.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that cause the one or more processors to receive the request cause the one or more processors to: receive information about a status or environment of the vehicle or a related AV system, the status or the environment of the vehicle comprising a functionality of a hardware component or software of the vehicle or the AV system.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to analyze the request to detect presence of unexpected data or absence of expected data, and wherein the instructions that cause the one or more processors to analyze the request cause the one or more processors to: evaluate a mismatch between a measured quantity and a model-estimated quantity of a hardware component or software of the vehicle; or use pattern recognition to evaluate an abnormal pattern in the request.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein analyzing the request further comprises at least one of: inferring a malfunction in the hardware component or the software; detecting an unknown object present in an environment of the vehicle or a related AV system; or inferring an event that is or will be happening in the environment of the vehicle or a related AV system.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to implement a fallback intervention in the operation of the at least one autonomous driving capability of the vehicle, and wherein the fallback intervention comprises at least one of: causing the vehicle or a related AV system to enter a fully autonomous driving mode, a semi-autonomous driving mode, or a fully manual driving mode; or causing the vehicle to operate at a reduced velocity.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the fallback intervention comprises at least one of: identifying a safe-to-stop location; generating a new trajectory to the safe-to-stop location; invoking a backup hardware component or a backup software process; or evaluating a functional hardware component or a functional software process required to operate the vehicle.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: evaluating one or more active events associated with the vehicle or a related AV system, or associated with the environment of the vehicle or a related AV system; presenting a field of view or a bird's-eye of a vision sensor of the vehicle; or presenting an interactive interface including presenting current or past or both trajectories.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: treating the current location as prior knowledge and using an inference algorithm to identify the geolocation; inferring one or more trajectory segments based on one or more trajectory primitives; or concatenating the trajectory segments by smoothing speed profiles across the trajectory segments.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: specifying one or more un-traversable road segments; inferring a steering angle by a learning algorithm; or enabling, editing or disabling a subcomponent of a hardware component or a processing step of a software process.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises editing data comprising at least one of a map, sensor data in the vehicle or a related AV system, trajectory data in the vehicle or a related AV system, vision data in the vehicle or a related AV system, or any past data in the vehicle or a related AV system.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a request for an intervention from a vehicle; treat a current location of the vehicle as a non-deterministic location having a conditional probability; identify a geolocation of the vehicle based on probabilistic reasoning using the conditional probability; and intervene in an operation of an autonomous driving capability of the vehicle.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein receiving the request comprises receiving information about a status or environment of the vehicle or a related AV system, the status or the environment of the vehicle comprising a functionality of a hardware component or software of the vehicle or the AV system.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to analyze the request to detect presence of unexpected data or absence of expected data, and wherein analyzing the request comprises at least one of: evaluating a mismatch between a measured quantity and a model-estimated quantity of a hardware component or software of the vehicle; or using pattern recognition to evaluate an abnormal pattern in the request.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein analyzing the request further comprises at least one of: inferring a malfunction in the hardware component or the software; detecting an unknown object present in an environment of the vehicle or a related AV system; or inferring an event that is or will be happening in the environment of the vehicle or a related AV system.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to implement a fallback intervention in the operation of the at least one autonomous driving capability of the vehicle, and wherein the fallback intervention comprises at least one of: causing the vehicle or a related AV system to enter a fully autonomous driving mode, a semi-autonomous driving mode, or a fully manual driving mode; or causing the vehicle to operate at a reduced velocity.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the fallback intervention comprises at least one of: identifying a safe-to-stop location; generating a new trajectory to the safe-to-stop location; invoking a backup hardware component or a backup software process; or evaluating a functional hardware component or a functional software process required to operate the vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: evaluating one or more active events associated with the vehicle or a related AV system, or associated with the environment of the vehicle or a related AV system; presenting a field of view or a bird's-eye of a vision sensor of the vehicle; or presenting an interactive interface including presenting current or past or both trajectories.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: treating the current location as prior knowledge and using an inference algorithm to identify the geolocation; inferring one or more trajectory segments based on one or more trajectory primitives; or concatenating the trajectory segments by smoothing speed profiles across the trajectory segments.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises at least one of: specifying one or more un-traversable road segments; inferring a steering angle by a learning algorithm; or enabling, editing or disabling a subcomponent of a hardware component or a processing step of a software process.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein intervening in the operation of the autonomous driving capability of the vehicle comprises editing data comprising at least one of a map, sensor data in the vehicle or a related AV system, trajectory data in the vehicle or a related AV system, vision data in the vehicle or a related AV system, or any past data in the vehicle or a related AV system.
</claims>
</document>
