<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M99/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
TOSHIBA MEMORY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AYYAGARI, SAI PREM KUMAR
KALAKANTI, ARUN KUMAR
MAYA, SHIGERU
NISHIKAWA TAKEICHIRO
PAUL, TOPON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550111
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF DETECTING ANOMALIES IN WAVEFORMS, AND SYSTEM THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Present disclosure discloses a method and system for detecting anomalies in waveforms in an industrial plant. During a learning stage, one or more training waveforms are received from a plurality of sensors monitoring a plurality of equipment in the industrial plant. The one or more training waveforms are used to generate a representative waveform and deviations of the one or more training waveforms from the representative waveform is determined. Based on the deviations, a plurality of groups is created. A model may be associated with each group for building an expected waveform pattern (reference waveform pattern). In real-time a plurality of test waveforms is received. Based on the electrical and physical properties of the plurality of test waveforms, each test waveform is classified into one of the plurality of groups. Thereafter, each waveform is compared with the reference waveform pattern associated with the group to which the respective test waveform belongs, to detect the anomaly.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An anomaly detection system for detecting anomalies in waveforms in an industrial plant, wherein the industrial plant comprises a plurality of equipment being monitored by a plurality of sensors, wherein each sensor generates a plurality of training waveforms and a plurality of test waveforms based on the monitoring, the anomaly detection system comprising: an input module to receive the plurality of training waveforms and the plurality of test waveforms from each sensor; a representative waveform generator to generate a representative waveform pattern using the plurality of training waveforms from each sensor; a grouping module to group each training waveform into a group from a plurality of groups based on a deviation between each training waveform and the representative waveform pattern; and an anomaly classification module configured to detect anomaly in at least one of the plurality of test waveform using the grouped training waveforms.
2. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the grouping module is configured to group each training waveform into a best matching group from the plurality of groups based on the deviation.
3. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 1, further comprises a model building module configured to: build one or more models for each group based on the training waveforms in respective group; and generate a reference waveform pattern for each group based on the one or more models of respective group.
4. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 1, further comprises an anomaly range estimation module configured to estimate a range of anomaly scores for each reference waveform pattern.
5. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the grouping module is further configured to group each test waveform into respective groups based on one or more electrical and physical parameters of respective test waveforms.
6. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 4, wherein the anomaly classification module detects the anomaly in each test waveform by performing: determining an anomaly score for each test waveform; and comparing the anomaly score of each test waveform with the range of anomaly scores of reference waveform of the corresponding group for detecting an anomaly in each test waveform.
7. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 5, wherein the one or more electrical and physical parameters comprises at least one of current, voltage, shape, amplitude, frequency, and phase.
8. The anomaly detection system as claimed in claim 3, wherein the grouping module is further configured to generate a group representative waveform pattern for each group, wherein the group representative waveform pattern is used by corresponding one or more models to generate the reference waveform pattern, wherein the reference waveform pattern indicates expected signals.
9. A method for detecting anomalies in waveforms in an industrial plant, wherein the industrial plant comprises a plurality of equipment being monitored by a plurality of sensors, wherein each sensor generates a plurality of training waveforms and a plurality of test waveforms based on the monitoring, the method comprising: receiving, by an input module, the plurality of training waveforms from each sensor; generating, by a representative waveform generator, a representative waveform pattern using the plurality of training waveforms from each sensor; grouping, by a grouping module, each training waveform into a group from a plurality of groups based on a deviation between each training waveform and the representative waveform pattern; and detecting, by an anomaly classification module, an anomaly in each test waveform using the grouped training waveforms.
10. The method as claimed in claim 9, wherein each training waveform is grouped into a best matching group from the plurality of groups based on the deviation.
11. The method as claimed in claim 9, further comprises: building one or more models for each group based on the training waveforms in respective group; and generating a reference waveform pattern for each group based on the one or more models of respective group;
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, further comprises estimating a range of anomaly scores for each reference waveform.
13. The method as claimed in claim 9, further comprises grouping each test waveform into respective group based on one or more electrical and physical parameters of respective test waveforms.
14. The method as claimed in claim 13, further comprises: determining an anomaly score for each test waveform; and comparing the anomaly score of each test waveform with the range of anomaly scores of reference waveform of the corresponding group for detecting an anomaly in each test waveform.
15. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the one or more electrical and physical parameters comprises at least one of current, voltage, shape, amplitude, frequency, and phase.
16. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein grouping further comprises generating a group representative waveform pattern for each group, wherein the group representative waveform pattern is used by corresponding one or more models to generate the reference waveform pattern, wherein the reference waveform pattern indicates expected signals.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon that when processed by at least one processor cause a device to perform operations comprising: receiving the plurality of training waveforms from each sensor; generating, by a representative waveform generator, a representative waveform pattern using the plurality of training waveforms from each sensor; grouping each training waveform into a group from a plurality of groups based on a deviation between each training waveform and the representative waveform pattern; and detecting an anomaly in each test waveform using the grouped training waveforms.
</claims>
</document>
