<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/32,G06F11/34,G06K9/66,G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, SURENDER
HAYES, HOWARD
STRICKER, BRIAN
RUGEL, JOHN
OLENAK, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71609844
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data processing system with machine learning engine to provide output generating functions
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatuses for identifying and executing one or more interactive condition evaluation tests and collecting and analyzing user behavior data to generate an output are provided. In some examples, user information may be received and one or more interactive condition evaluation tests may be identified. An instruction may be transmitted to a computing device of a user and executed on the computing device to enable functionality of one or more sensors that may be used in the identified tests. Upon initiating a test, data may be collected from the one or more sensors. The collected sensor data may be transmitted to the system and processed using one or more machine learning datasets. Additionally, user behavior data may be collected and processed using one or more machine learning datasets. The sensor data, the user behavior data, and other data may be used together to generate an output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from a user computing device, a user input including user information for a user; identifying, based on the user information, a product associated with the user; identifying, based on the product, at least one collection procedure to be performed by the user computing device; sending, to the user computing device, a request to perform the at least one collection procedure, wherein the request comprises information corresponding to the at least one collection procedure and instructions to perform the at least one collection procedure at the user computing device; receiving, from the user computing device, data collected by the user computing device while performing the at least one collection procedure; analyzing, using one or more machine learning datasets, the data to evaluate health and lifestyle of the user; determining, based on the health and lifestyle of the user, whether the user is eligible for a pricing adjustment of at least a component of the product; and sending, to the user computing device for display, an output indicating whether the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the at least one collection procedure comprises identifying, based on the product, one or more types of behavior data, related to the user, to be collected by the user computing device, wherein the request to perform the at least one collection procedure comprises instructions for the user computing device to collect the one or more types of behavior data related to the user, and wherein receiving the data comprises receiving behavior data related to the user and corresponding to the identified one or more types of behavior data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying the at least one collection procedure comprises identifying, based on the product, at least one interactive test to be executed on the user computing device, wherein the request to perform the at least one collection procedure comprises information corresponding to the at least one interactive test and instructions for the user computing device to execute the at least one interactive test, and wherein receiving the data comprises receiving test data collected by one or more sensors associated with user computing device during execution of the at least one interactive test by the user computing device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein identifying the at least one interactive test further comprises: identifying one or more sensors associated with the user computing device to be used during execution of the at least one interactive test, and wherein the instructions to execute the at least one interactive test at the user computing device comprise an instruction to enable the one or more sensors.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: prior to sending the information corresponding to the at least one interactive test to the user computing device, generating a user interface for performing the at least one interactive test, wherein sending the information comprises sending the user interface.
6. The method of claim 3, further comprising: calculating, based on the analyzed data, one or more behavior scores; and determining, based on the analyzed data, test results of the at least one interactive test, wherein determining whether the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment comprises: determining whether one or more of the one or more behavior scores meets a corresponding first threshold value; and determining whether one or more of the test results meets a corresponding second threshold value.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: based on a determination that at least one of: the one or more of the one or more behavior scores meets the corresponding first threshold value or the one or more of the test results meets the corresponding second threshold value; determining that the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment; and initiating the pricing adjustment of the at least a component of the product.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: based on a determination that: at least one of the one or more behavior scores is below the corresponding first threshold value or at least one of the test results is below the corresponding second threshold value, determining that eligibility of the user for the pricing adjustment is uncertain, wherein the output indicates that eligibility of the user for the pricing adjustment could not be determined and additional information is required.
9. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one interactive test comprises one or more of: a body measurement test, a biometric test, a mobility test, a reflex test, and a cognitive skills test, and wherein the one or more types of behavior data comprises one or more of: a social media post, an email, a text message, a chat message, an image, a video, and information related to gym membership of the user.
10. A multi-source data evaluation computing device, comprising: a processing unit comprising a processor; and a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to: receive, from a user computing device, a user input including user information for a user; identify, based on the user information, a product associated with the user; identify, based on the product, at least one collection procedure to be performed by the user computing device; send, to the user computing device, a request to perform the at least one collection procedure, wherein the request comprises information corresponding to the at least one collection procedure and instructions to perform the at least one collection procedure at the user computing device; receive, from the user computing device, data collected by the user computing device while performing the at least one collection procedure; analyze, using one or more machine learning datasets, the data to evaluate health and lifestyle of the user; determine, based on the health and lifestyle of the user, whether the user is eligible for a pricing adjustment of at least a component of the product; and send, to the user computing device for display, an output indicating whether the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment.
11. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 10, wherein identifying the at least one collection procedure comprises identifying, based on the product, one or more types of behavior data, related to the user, to be collected by the user computing device, wherein the request to perform the at least one collection procedure comprises instructions for the user computing device to collect the one or more types of behavior data related to the user, and wherein receiving the data comprises receiving behavior data related to the user and corresponding to the identified one or more types of behavior data.
12. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 11, wherein identifying the at least one collection procedure comprises identifying, based on the product, at least one interactive test to be executed on the user computing device, wherein the request to perform the at least one collection procedure comprises information corresponding to the at least one interactive test and instructions for the user computing device to execute the at least one interactive test, and wherein receiving the data comprises receiving test data collected by one or more sensors associated with user computing device during execution of the at least one interactive test by the user computing device.
13. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to identify the at least one interactive test by identifying one or more sensors associated with the user computing device to be used during execution of the at least one interactive test, and wherein the instructions to execute the at least one interactive test at the user computing device comprise an instruction to enable the one or more sensors.
14. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to: prior to sending the information corresponding to the at least one interactive test to the user computing device, generate a user interface for performing the at least one interactive test, wherein sending the information further comprises sending the user interface.
15. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 12, wherein the instructions further cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to: calculate, based on the analyzed data, one or more behavior scores, and determine, based on the analyzed data, test results of the at least one interactive test, determine whether the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment by: determining whether one or more of the one or more behavior scores meets a corresponding first threshold value; and determining whether one or more of the test results meets a corresponding second threshold value.
16. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to: based on a determination that at least one of: the one or more of the one or more behavior scores meets the corresponding first threshold value or the one or more of the test results meets the corresponding second threshold value: determine that the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment; and initiate the pricing adjustment of the at least a component of the product.
17. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the multi-source data evaluation computing device to: based on a determination that at least one of: the one or more behavior scores is below the corresponding first threshold value or at least one of the test results is below the corresponding second threshold value, determine that eligibility of the user for the pricing adjustment is uncertain, wherein the output indicates that the eligibility of the user for the pricing adjustment could not be determined and additional information is required.
18. The multi-source data evaluation computing device of claim 12, wherein the at least one interactive test comprises one or more of: a body measurement test, a biometric test, a mobility test, a reflex test, and a cognitive skills test, and wherein the behavior data comprises one or more of: a social media post, an email, a text message, a chat message, an image, a video, and information related to gym membership of the user.
19. A method, comprising: identifying a user having one or more products; identifying a product, of the one or more products, requiring pricing reevaluation, based on determining that a predetermined time has elapsed since the product was last evaluated; sending, to one or more computing devices, a request for behavior data related to the user; receiving, from at least one of the one or more computing devices, the behavior data related to the user; analyzing, using one or more machine learning datasets, the behavior data to evaluate a lifestyle of the user; determining, based on the lifestyle of the user, whether the user is eligible for a pricing adjustment of at least a component of the product; and sending, to the user computing device for display, an output indicating whether the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: calculating, based on the analyzed behavior data, one or more behavior scores; and based on a determination that one or more of the one or more behavior scores meets a corresponding first threshold value: determining that the user is eligible for the pricing adjustment; and initiating the pricing adjustment of the at least a component of the product.
</claims>
</document>
