<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G16H10/60,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTELLI, VITTORIO
ELEFTHERIOU, MARIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71405245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR INITIAL INFORMATION GATHERING FROM PATIENTS AT THE POINT OF CARE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to dynamically creating a questionnaire for a patient to fill out while waiting to be seen by a healthcare provider. In various embodiments, an initial differential diagnosis may be determined from the dynamic questionnaire. A set of known medical queries and medical information from a set of known medical documents are grouped into categories. A bipartite graph is generated between the categories of medical information and categories of medical queries. A first query is selected and a user is prompted for input of medical data. A first set of candidate diagnoses is determined based on the user input. The remaining queries are classified to determine a ranking. One or more additional queries are selected from the ranked remaining queries, prompting a user for input of additional medical data. A second set of candidate diagnoses is selected based on the additional medical data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of dynamically generating medical queries, the method comprising: applying a first clustering algorithm to a set of known medical queries to thereby group the set of known medical queries into categories of medical queries; applying a second clustering algorithm to a set of known medical documents to thereby group medical information extracted from the set of known medical documents into categories of medical information; generating a bipartite graph between the categories of medical information and categories of medical queries based on results from the first clustering algorithm and results from the second clustering algorithm; selecting a first query from the set of known medical queries, the first query prompting a user for input of medical data; receiving a user input to the first query; determining a first set of candidate diagnoses based on the user input; classifying remaining queries in the set of medical queries to determine a ranking of the remaining queries based on the first set of candidate diagnoses and whether the remaining queries can be answered by the user; selecting one or more additional queries from the ranked remaining queries, the one or more additional queries prompting a user for input of additional medical data; and determining a second set of candidate diagnoses based on the additional medical data, wherein the second set of candidate diagnoses is a subset of the first set of candidate diagnoses.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising prompting a user for medical information for which no prior query has been generated.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of known medical queries comprises questions previously asked by a healthcare professional.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the second clustering algorithm comprises reassigning at least one patient symptom from one group to another group.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of known medical documents are anonymized medical records of visits to a healthcare professional.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: separating a description of findings in the set of known medical documents from a diagnostic portion and/or prescriptive portion.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein separating the description of findings comprises: annotating the set of known medical documents, wherein the annotations indicate a plurality of features; extracting the plurality of features; and detecting transitions in the set of known medical documents based on the extracted plurality of features.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein separating the description of findings further comprises: separating the description of findings into individual sentences; identifying a plurality of types of medical information; segmenting the set of known medical documents into a plurality of symptoms and a plurality of medical facts; pairing the plurality of symptoms with a plurality of generated queries; and aligning the plurality of generated queries.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of generated queries are automatically generated.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of generated queries are manually generated.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein aligning comprises a textual similarity method.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the textual similarity method comprises word embeddings or cluster of word embeddings.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing the user with a set of recommended answers.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the recommended answers are determined from answers to predetermined queries in a database.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the additional medical data to predetermined medical records to determine a data sufficiency factor.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising stopping selecting one or more additional queries when the data sufficiency factor is above a threshold.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing the user with a set of questions to ask a healthcare professional.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a partial medical record based on the medical data and additional medical data.
19. A system comprising: a computing node comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor of the computing node to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: applying a first clustering algorithm to a set of known medical queries to thereby group the set of known medical queries into categories of medical queries; applying a second clustering algorithm to a set of known medical documents to thereby group medical information extracted from the set of known medical documents into categories of medical information; generating a bipartite graph between the categories of medical information and categories of medical queries based on results from the first clustering algorithm and results from the second clustering algorithm; selecting a first query from the set of known medical queries, the first query prompting a user for input of medical data; receiving a user input to the first query; determining a first set of candidate diagnoses based on the user input; classifying remaining queries in the set of medical queries to determine a ranking of the remaining queries based on the first set of candidate diagnoses and whether the remaining queries can be answered by the user; selecting one or more additional queries from the ranked remaining queries, the one or more additional queries prompting a user for input of additional medical data; and determining a second set of candidate diagnoses based on the additional medical data, wherein the second set of candidate diagnoses is a subset of the first set of candidate diagnoses.
20. A computer program product for dynamically generating medical queries, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: applying a first clustering algorithm to a set of known medical queries to thereby group the set of known medical queries into categories of medical queries; applying a second clustering algorithm to a set of known medical documents to thereby group medical information extracted from the set of known medical documents into categories of medical information; generating a bipartite graph between the categories of medical information and categories of medical queries based on results from the first clustering algorithm and results from the second clustering algorithm; selecting a first query from the set of known medical queries, the first query prompting a user for input of medical data; receiving a user input to the first query; determining a first set of candidate diagnoses based on the user input; classifying remaining queries in the set of medical queries to determine a ranking of the remaining queries based on the first set of candidate diagnoses and whether the remaining queries can be answered by the user; selecting one or more additional queries from the ranked remaining queries, the one or more additional queries prompting a user for input of additional medical data; and determining a second set of candidate diagnoses based on the additional medical data, wherein the second set of candidate diagnoses is a subset of the first set of candidate diagnoses.
</claims>
</document>
