<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64D31/06,F02C9/28,F02C9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PRATT & WHITNEY CANADA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HERBORTH, JASON
YEE, TONY
WANG, YEN-WEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727037
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENGINE OPTIMIZATION BIASED TO HIGH FUEL FLOW RATE
</title>

<abstract>
Herein provided are systems and methods for operating an engine of an aircraft. The engine is operated at a first fuel flow rate. An indication of a measured humidity level within the engine is obtained from a humidity sensor coupled to the engine. A determination is made regarding whether the measured humidity level within the engine is indicative that a flameout risk for the engine is below a predetermined risk level. Responsive to determining that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level, the engine is operated at a second fuel flow rate lower than the first fuel flow rate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for operating an engine of an aircraft, the system comprising: a humidity sensor coupled to the engine, the humidity sensor configured for measuring a humidity level within the engine; and an engine controller communicatively coupled to the humidity sensor and to the engine, the engine controller configured for: operating the engine at a first fuel flow rate; obtaining, from the humidity sensor, an indication of the measured humidity level within the engine; determining whether the measured humidity level within the engine is indicative that a flameout risk for the engine is below a predetermined risk level; and responsive to determining that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level, operating the engine at a second fuel flow rate lower than the first fuel flow rate.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein determining whether the measured humidity level is indicative that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level comprises determining whether the measured humidity level is below a predetermined threshold.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the predetermined threshold is indicative of an inclement weather condition in the vicinity of the engine, the weather condition selected from the group of rain, sleet, hail, and snow.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the engine controller is further configured for, subsequent to operating the engine at the second fuel flow rate: obtaining, from the humidity sensor, a subsequent indication of a subsequent measured humidity level within the engine; determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is indicative of a subsequent flameout risk which is above a subsequent predetermined risk level; and responsive to determining that the subsequent flameout risk is above the subsequent predetermined risk level, operating the engine at the first fuel flow rate.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is indicative that the subsequent flameout risk is above the subsequent risk level comprises determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is above a predetermined threshold.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising a temperature sensor coupled to the engine, wherein the engine controller is further configured for obtaining, from the temperature sensor, an indication of a measured temperature within the engine, and wherein the flameout risk is further determined based on the measured temperature.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pressure sensor coupled to the engine, wherein the engine controller is further configured for obtaining, from the pressure sensor, an indication of a measured pressure within the engine, and wherein the flameout risk is further determined based on the measured pressure.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein determining whether the measured humidity level is indicative that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level comprises using a machine-learning algorithm to estimate the flameout risk based on the measured humidity level.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the humidity sensor is located within a nacelle of the engine.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the humidity sensor comprises a flow-through device located in a bypass duct of the engine.
11. A method for operating an engine of an aircraft, comprising: operating the engine at a first fuel flow rate; obtaining, from a humidity sensor coupled to the engine, an indication of a measured humidity level within the engine; determining whether the measured humidity level within the engine is indicative that a flameout risk for the engine is below a predetermined risk level; and responsive to determining that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level, operating the engine at a second fuel flow rate lower than the first fuel flow rate.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether the measured humidity level is indicative that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level comprises determining whether the measured humidity level is below a predetermined threshold.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the predetermined threshold is indicative of an inclement weather condition in the vicinity of the engine, the weather condition selected from the group of rain, sleet, hail, and snow.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising, subsequent to operating the engine at the second fuel flow rate: obtaining, from the humidity sensor, a subsequent indication of a subsequent measured humidity level within the engine; determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is indicative of a subsequent flameout risk which is above a subsequent predetermined risk level; and responsive to determining that the subsequent flameout risk is above the subsequent predetermined risk level, operating the engine at the first fuel flow rate.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is indicative that the subsequent flameout risk is above the subsequent risk level comprises determining whether the subsequent measured humidity level is above a predetermined threshold.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising obtaining an indication of a measured temperature within the engine from a temperature sensor coupled to the engine, and wherein the flameout risk is further determined based on the measured temperature.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising obtaining an indication of a measured pressure within the engine from a pressure sensor coupled to the engine, and wherein the flameout risk is further determined based on the measured pressure.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether the humidity level is indicative that the flameout risk is below the predetermined risk level comprises using a machine-learning algorithm to estimate the flameout risk based on the humidity level.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining the indication of the humidity level within the engine comprises obtaining the indication from the humidity sensor located within a nacelle of the engine.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining the indication of the humidity level within the engine comprises obtaining the indication from the humidity sensor located in a bypass duct of the engine.
</claims>
</document>
