<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,G01S5/06,H04B3/52,H04B3/54,H04W24/02,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WARD, DAVID, DELANO
MALUF, DAVID, A.
Elnakeeb, Amr
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650027
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UPDATING OBJECT MOTION DYNAMICS FROM MULTIPLE RADIO SIGNALS
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a service receives signal characteristic data indicative of characteristics of wireless signals received by one or more antennas located in a particular area. The service uses the received signal characteristic data as input to a Bayesian inference model to predict physical states of an object located in the particular area. A physical state of the object is indicative of at least one of: a mass, a velocity, an acceleration, a surface area, or a location of the object. The service updates the Bayesian inference model based in part on the predicted state of the object and a change in the received signal characteristic data and based in part by enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a service, signal characteristic data indicative of characteristics of wireless signals received by one or more antennas located in a particular area; using, by the service, the received signal characteristic data as input to a Bayesian inference model to predict physical states of an object located in the particular area, wherein a physical state of the object is indicative of at least one of: a mass, a velocity, an acceleration, a surface area, or a location of the object; updating, by the service, the Bayesian inference model based in part on the predicted state of the object and a change in the received signal characteristic data and based in part by enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the one or more antennas are wireless access point antennas in a wireless network.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the characteristics of the wireless signal comprise one or more of: a change in gain of the wireless signals, a phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals, or a ratio of the change in gain over the phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein updating the Bayesian inference model further comprises: using a Kalman filter to solve for an error between the predicted physical states of the object and the characteristics of the wireless signals.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states comprises: ensuring that a predicted location of the object is consistent with a previous location of the object.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states comprises: ensuring that a predicted mass and a predicted acceleration of the object are consistent with one another.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the wireless signals are received by a plurality of different antennas.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the service and based on the predicted physical states of the object, that the object is falling.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with one or more networks; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: receive signal characteristic data indicative of characteristics of wireless signals received by one or more antennas located in a particular area; use the received signal characteristic data as input to a Bayesian inference model to predict physical states of an object located in the particular area, wherein a physical state of the object is indicative of at least one of: a mass, a velocity, an acceleration, a surface area, or a location of the object; update the Bayesian inference model based in part on the predicted state of the object and a change in the received signal characteristic data and based in part by enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the one or more antennas are wireless access point antennas in a wireless network.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the characteristics of the wireless signal comprise one or more of: a change in gain of the wireless signals, a phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals, or a ratio of the change in gain over the phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus updates the Bayesian inference model further by: using a Kalman filter to solve for an error between the predicted physical states of the object and the characteristics of the wireless signals.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus enforces Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states by: ensuring that a predicted location of the object is consistent with a previous location of the object.
14. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus enforces Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states by: ensuring that a predicted mass and a predicted acceleration of the object are consistent with one another.
15. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the wireless signals are received by a plurality of different antennas.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: determine, based on the predicted physical states of the object, that the object is falling.
17. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device to execute a process comprising: receiving signal characteristic data indicative of characteristics of wireless signals received by one or more antennas located in a particular area; using the received signal characteristic data as input to a Bayesian inference model to predict physical states of an object located in the particular area, wherein a physical state of the object is indicative of at least one of: a mass, a velocity, an acceleration, a surface area, or a location of the object; updating the Bayesian inference model based in part on the predicted state of the object and a change in the received signal characteristic data and based in part by enforcing Newtonian motion dynamics on the predicted physical states.
18. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the one or more antennas are wireless access point antennas in a wireless network.
19. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein the characteristics of the wireless signal comprise one or more of: a change in gain of the wireless signals, a phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals, or a ratio of the change in gain over the phase shift rate of change of the wireless signals.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 17, wherein updating the Bayesian inference model further comprises: using a Kalman filter to solve for an error between the predicted physical states of the object and the characteristics of the wireless signals.
</claims>
</document>
