<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J1/42,G01J3/02,G01J3/51,G01S17/89,G01S7/481
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OUSTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRICHTL, MARK
PACALA, ANGUS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70159932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Scanning sensor array with overlapping pass bands
</title>

<abstract>
A multispectral sensor array can include a combination of ranging sensor channels (e.g., LIDAR sensor channels) and ambient-light sensor channels tuned to detect ambient light having a channel-specific property (e.g., color). The sensor channels can be arranged and spaced to provide multispectral images of a field of view in which the multispectral images from different sensors are inherently aligned with each other to define an array of multispectral image pixels. Various optical elements can be provided to facilitate imaging operations. Light ranging/imaging systems incorporating multispectral sensor arrays can operate in rotating and/or static modes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A sensor array having a plurality of sensor rows, each sensor row comprising: a set of at least two ambient-light sensor channels, wherein each ambient-light sensor channel in the set includes: a channel input aperture; a photosensor; and a channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a channel-specific property to the photosensor, wherein the set of at least two ambient-light sensor channels in each sensor row includes at least two overlapping ambient-light sensor channels having respective channel-specific optical filters for which the channel-specific property of the light overlaps; and an arithmetic logic circuit to decode signals from the at least two ambient-light sensor channels into respective light intensity levels for light having a plurality of non-overlapping properties.
2. The sensor array of claim 1 wherein the channel-specific property includes a wavelength of light.
3. The sensor array of claim 2 wherein the set of at least two overlapping ambient-light sensor channels include: a first color channel having a first channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a first range of wavelengths; a second color channel having a second channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a second range of wavelengths; and a third color channel having a third channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a third range of wavelengths, wherein the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths are partially overlapping, and wherein the third range of wavelengths encompasses both of the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths.
4. The sensor array of claim 3 wherein the third wavelength band corresponds to the visible light spectrum.
5. The sensor array of claim 1 wherein the channel-specific property includes a polarization property of light.
6. The sensor array of claim 1 wherein each sensor row further comprises a LIDAR sensor channel.
7. An imaging system comprising: a sensor array having a plurality of sensor rows, each sensor row including a set of at least two ambient-light sensor channels, wherein each ambient-light sensor channel includes: a channel input aperture; a photosensor; and a channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a channel-specific property to the photosensor, wherein the set of at least two ambient-light sensor channels in each sensor row includes at least two overlapping ambient-light sensor channels having respective channel-specific optical filters for which the channel-specific property of the light overlaps; a controller to operate the sensor array such that each of the three or more ambient-light sensor channels is exposed to light from a same portion of a field of view; and an arithmetic logic circuit to decode signals from the at least two overlapping ambient-light sensor channels into respective light intensity levels for light having a plurality of non-overlapping properties.
8. The imaging system of claim 7 wherein the channel-specific property includes a wavelength range.
9. The imaging system of claim 8 wherein the at least two overlapping ambient-light sensor channels includes: a first color channel having a first channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a first range of wavelengths; a second color channel having a second channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a second range of wavelengths; and a third color channel having a third channel-specific optical filter that selectively passes light having a third range of wavelengths, wherein the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths are partially overlapping, and wherein the third range of wavelengths encompasses both of the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths.
10. The imaging system of claim 9 wherein the third range of wavelengths corresponds to the visible light spectrum.
11. The imaging system of claim 7 wherein the channel-specific property includes a polarization property of light.
12. The imaging system of claim 7 wherein each sensor row further comprises a LIDAR sensor channel.
13. A sensor array comprising: a plurality of sensor channels including a plurality of multispectral sensor channels, each multispectral sensor channel having: a channel input aperture; at least three photosensors; and a patterned optical filter having at least three different portions, wherein different portions of the patterned optical filter selectively pass light having different properties to different subsets of the at least three photosensors, the different portions of the patterned optical filter including at least a first portion that passes light to a first subset of the at least three photosensors and a second portion that passes light to a second subset of the at least three photosensors, wherein respective properties of light passed by the first and second portions overlap; and an arithmetic logic circuit to decode signals from the first and second subsets of the photosensors into respective light intensity levels for light having a plurality of non-overlapping properties.
14. The sensor array of claim 13 wherein the respective properties include a wavelength range.
15. The sensor array of claim 14 wherein the different portions of the patterned optical filter include: a first portion that selectively passes light having a first range of wavelengths to a first subset of the photosensors; a second portion that selectively passes light having a second range of wavelengths to a second subset of the photosensors; and a third portion that selectively passes light having a third range of wavelengths to a third subset of the photosensors, wherein the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths are partially overlapping, and the third range of wavelengths encompasses both of the first range of wavelengths and the second range of wavelengths.
16. The sensor array of claim 15 wherein the third wavelength band corresponds to the visible light spectrum.
17. The sensor array of claim 13 wherein the property selected by the first and second portions of the patterned optical filter includes a polarization property of light.
18. The sensor array of claim 13 wherein the plurality of sensor channels further includes a plurality of LIDAR sensor channels disposed such that each LIDAR sensor channel forms a sensor row with a different one of the multispectral sensor channels.
19. The sensor array of claim 13 wherein the multispectral sensor channel includes a LIDAR photosensor and the patterned optical filter includes a fourth portion that selectively passes light having a wavelength corresponding to a LIDAR emitter to the LIDAR photosensor.
</claims>
</document>
