<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHOPPERTRAK RCT CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRIVELPIECE, STEVE EDWARD
PAOLELLA, MICHAEL
PATIL, AMIT R.
PALELLA, Michelangelo
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73745517
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR MONITORING WORKERS IN A RETAIL ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Examples described herein generally relate to a system for monitoring workers in a retail environment. The system may include a plurality of cameras located in different regions of the retail location and configured to capture a video feed of a respective region. The system may include a computer system comprising a memory storing computer executable instructions. The system may provide a video feed of at least one region of the retail environment to a machine learning classifier, the machine learning classifier trained on labeled videos, to classify a sequence of images of a worker into a probability certainty of an activity being performed by the worker. The processor may determine, based on the probability certainties generated by the machine learning classifier over a period of time, an activity schedule of the worker. The system may determine labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring workers in a retail environment, comprising: a plurality of cameras located in different regions of the retail environment and configured to capture a video feed of a respective region; a computer system comprising a memory storing computer executable instructions and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: provide a video feed of at least one region of the retail environment to a machine learning classifier, the machine learning classifier trained on labeled videos, to classify a sequence of images of a worker into a probability certainty of an activity being performed by the worker; determine, based on the probability certainties generated by the machine learning classifier over a period of time, an activity schedule of the worker; and determine labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a worker interface, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to: identify the worker at the worker interface based on input to the worker interface; and tracking a location of the identified worker to a location of the worker in the video feed.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a wearable device associated with the worker, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to receive a location of the worker from the wearable device, and associating a data feed of the wearable device to the worker.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the labeled videos are also associated with a corresponding data feed of a wearable device for the activity, wherein the machine learning classifier is trained on the combination of the video and the corresponding data feed of the wearable device for the labeled activity.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the activities being performed by the worker are selected from a set of work activities for the retail environment that correspond to the labels of the labeled videos.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the activities being performed by the worker are selected from a set of restricted activities for the retail environment that correspond to the labels of the labeled videos.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to: determine a location of the worker in the video feed; determine a set of activities for the location; and adjust the probability certainty of the activity based on whether the activity is in the set of activities for the location.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to determine the labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule comprise instructions to determine a density of employee activity in the region, correlate the activity schedule with a task management plan to determine a labor efficiency, or determine a quality of the activity being performed.
9. A method of monitoring workers in a retail environment, comprising: providing video feeds from a plurality of cameras located in different regions of the retail environment and configured to capture a video feed of a respective region of the retail environment to a machine learning classifier, the machine learning classifier trained on labeled videos, to classify a sequence of images of a worker into a probability certainty of an activity being performed by the worker; determining, based on the probability certainties generated by the machine learning classifier over a period of time, an activity schedule of the worker; and determining labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the activities being performed by the worker are selected from a set of work activities for the retail environment that correspond to the labels of the labeled videos.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the activities being performed by the worker are selected from a set of restricted activities for the retail environment that correspond to the labels of the labeled videos.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the activity schedule of the worker comprises: determining a location of the worker in the video feed; determining a set of activities for the location; and adjusting the probability certainty of the activity based on whether the activity is in the set of activities for the location.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining the location of the worker in the video comprises identifying the worker at a first location and tracking the location of the identified worker to the location of the worker in the video feed.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving a location of the worker from a wearable device, and associating a data feed of the wearable device to the worker.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the labeled videos are also associated with a corresponding data feed of a wearable device for the activity, wherein the machine learning classifier is trained on a combination of the video and the corresponding data feed of the wearable device for the labeled activity.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating a labor plan based on the labor productivity statistics.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule comprises determining a density of employee activity in the region.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the labor productivity statistics comprises correlating the activity schedule with a task management plan to determine a labor efficiency.
19. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule comprises determining a speed or quality of the activity being performed.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to: provide video feeds from a plurality of cameras located in different regions of the retail environment and configured to capture a video feed of a respective region of the retail environment to a machine learning classifier, the machine learning classifier trained on labeled videos, to classify a sequence of images of a worker into a probability certainty of an activity being performed by the worker; determine, based on the probability certainties generated by the machine learning classifier over a period of time, an activity schedule of the worker; and determine labor productivity statistics based on the activity schedule.
</claims>
</document>
