<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATSUMOTO, HISANORI
OTSU, KENJI
WATANABE KEIJI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69148406
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE-TOOL-STATE DETERMINATION SYSTEM AND MACHINE-TOOL-STATE DETERMINATION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A machine-tool-state determination system configured to determine a state associated with a machine tool including a rotation mechanism for processing a member, the system including: a sensor configured to acquire a state value from the machine tool; and an analysis device, in which the analysis device: performs spectral analysis with time series data of the state value, to extract a rotational frequency of the rotation mechanism and a harmonic wave to the rotational frequency; calculates a ratio of an amplitude of the rotational frequency to an amplitude of the harmonic wave; generates feature-amount data including the state value and the ratio as feature amounts; performs clustering with the feature-amount data; and determines a state associated with the machine tool, based on a result of the clustering.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine-tool-state determination system configured to determine a state associated with a machine tool including a rotation mechanism for processing a member, the machine-tool-state determination system comprising: a sensor configured to acquire a state value from the machine tool; and an analysis device including a processor and a memory connected to the processor, wherein the analysis device: performs spectral analysis with time series data of the state value, to extract a rotational frequency of the rotation mechanism and a harmonic wave to the rotational frequency; calculates a ratio of an amplitude of the rotational frequency and an amplitude of the harmonic wave; generates feature-amount data including the state value and the ratio as feature amounts; performs clustering with the feature-amount data; and determines a state associated with the machine tool, based on a result of the clustering.
2. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 1, wherein the machine tool includes a cutting mechanism that cuts the member in cooperation with an operation of the rotation mechanism, the cutting mechanism has a plurality of blades for cutting the member, and the analysis device: selects, from the harmonic wave, such a harmonic wave as a difference between the selected harmonic wave and a frequency obtained by multiplying the rotational frequency by the number of blades included in the cutting mechanism is smallest; and calculates a ratio of the amplitude of the rotational frequency to the amplitude of the selected harmonic wave.
3. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 2, wherein the analysis device: performs principal component analysis with the feature-amount data to select a plurality of principal components; converts the feature-amount data in a feature amount space including axes corresponding to the feature amounts, into data in a feature amount space including axes corresponding to the selected principal components; and performs clustering with the converted feature-amount data.
4. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 3, wherein the axes corresponding to the plurality of principal components include an axis defined by a linear combination of the axes corresponding to the feature amounts, with the axis corresponding to the ratio being large in weight factor.
5. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 4, wherein the analysis device: retains, as learning information, a result of clustering with learning data indicating a normal state and learning data indicating an abnormal state; and compares a result of clustering on feature-amount data newly generated, with the learning information, to detect an abnormality of the machine tool.
6. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 4, wherein the analysis device: calculates an indicator for evaluating process accuracy of the member, based on a result of the clustering; and evaluates the process accuracy of the member, based on the indicator.
7. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 4, wherein the analysis device: calculates, based on a result of the clustering, an evaluation value for determining whether a parameter for controlling the machine tool is suitable; and determines, based on the evaluation value, whether the parameter is suitable.
8. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 2, wherein the sensor is installed directly at the rotation mechanism of the machine tool or at a constituent different from the rotation mechanism of the machine tool, or is installed in non-contact with the machine tool, and the machine-tool-state determination system includes, as the sensor, at least any of a force sensor, a strain sensor, a displacement sensor, a velocimeter, an accelerometer, an angular velocimeter, an acoustic sensor, an ultrasonic sensor, a microphone, a temperature sensor, a laser sensor, and a camera.
9. The machine-tool-state determination system according to claim 2, wherein the machine tool is housed in a housing, and part of the machine tool or part of the housing includes an acoustic absorption material.
10. A machine-tool-state determination method to be executed by a system that manages a machine tool having a rotation mechanism for processing a member, the system including a sensor configured to acquire a state value from the machine tool, and an analysis device including a processor and a memory connected to the processor, the machine-tool-state determination method comprising: performing spectral analysis with time series data of the state value, to extract a rotational frequency of the rotation mechanism and a harmonic wave to the rotational frequency, with the analysis device; calculating a ratio of an amplitude of the rotational frequency to an amplitude of the harmonic wave, with the analysis device; generating feature-amount data including the state value and the ratio as feature amounts, with the analysis device; performing clustering with the feature-amount data, with the analysis device; and determining a state associated with the machine tool, based on a result of the clustering, with the analysis device.
11. The machine-tool-state determination method according to claim 10, wherein the machine tool has a cutting mechanism that cuts the member in cooperation with an operation of the rotation mechanism, the cutting mechanism has a plurality of blades for cutting the member, and the calculating includes: selecting, from the harmonic wave, such a harmonic wave as a difference between the selected harmonic wave and a frequency obtained by multiplying the rotational frequency by the number of blades included in the cutting mechanism is smallest, with the analysis device; and calculating a ratio of the amplitude of the rotational frequency to the amplitude of the selected harmonic wave, with the analysis device.
12. The machine-tool-state determination method according to claim 11, wherein the performing the clustering includes: performing principal component analysis with the feature-amount data to select a plurality of principal components, with the analysis device; converting the feature-amount data in a feature amount space including axes corresponding to the feature amounts, into data in a feature amount space including axes corresponding to the selected principal components, with the analysis device; and performing clustering with the converted feature-amount data, with the analysis device.
13. The machine-tool-state determination method according to claim 12, wherein the axes corresponding to the plurality of principal components include an axis defined by a linear combination of the axes, with the axis corresponding to the ratio being large in weight factor.
14. The machine-tool-state determination method according to claim 13, wherein the analysis device retains, as learning information, a result of clustering with learning data indicating a normal state and learning data indicating an abnormal state, and the determining includes comparing a result of clustering on feature-amount data newly generated, with the learning information, to detect an abnormality of the machine tool, with the analysis device.
</claims>
</document>
