<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
Mermoud, Gregory
Savalle, Pierre-Andre
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73550015
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PRESERVING PRIVACY IN EXPORTING DEVICE CLASSIFICATION RULES FROM ON-PREMISE SYSTEMS
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device in a network obtains data indicative of a device classification rule, a device type label associated with the rule, and a set of positive and negative feature vectors used to create the rule. The device replaces similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors. The device applies differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors. The device sends a digest to a cloud service. The digest comprises the device classification rule, the device type label, and the reduced set of feature vectors to which differential privacy was applied. The service uses the digest to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a device in a network, data indicative of a device classification rule, a device type label associated with the rule, and a set of positive and negative feature vectors used to create the rule; replacing, by the device, similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors; applying, by the device, differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors; and sending, by the device, a digest to a cloud service, wherein the digest comprises the device classification rule, the device type label, and the reduced set of feature vectors to which differential privacy was applied, and wherein the service uses the digest to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the device, the trained machine learning classifier; and using the trained machine learning classifier to classify a client in the network.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the positive feature vectors are indicative of characteristics of network traffic associated with clients in the network to which the device type label was applied, and wherein the negative feature vectors are indicative of characteristics of network traffic associated with clients in the network to which the device type label was not applied.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device type label was applied to the positive feature vectors via active learning.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the device and from a user interface, an indication that a particular device type label is sensitive; and preventing, by the device, a digest that includes the particular device type label from being sent to the cloud service.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein applying differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors comprises: applying a discrete exponential mechanism to the reduced set of feature vectors, to change values in the feature vectors.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device type label is indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein replacing similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors, comprises: assigning a weight to the single feature vector based on a number of the similar feature vectors in the set.
9. The method as in claim 8, wherein applying differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors further comprises: adjusting the weight assigned to the single feature vector.
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with one or more networks; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: obtain data indicative of a device classification rule, a device type label associated with the rule, and a set of positive and negative feature vectors used to create the rule; replace similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors; apply differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors; and send a digest to a cloud service, wherein the digest comprises the device classification rule, the device type label, and the reduced set of feature vectors to which differential privacy was applied, and wherein the service uses the digest to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: receive the trained machine learning classifier; and use the trained machine learning classifier to classify a client in the network.
12. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the positive feature vectors are indicative of characteristics of network traffic associated with clients in the network to which the device type label was applied, and wherein the negative feature vectors are indicative of characteristics of network traffic associated with clients in the network to which the device type label was not applied.
13. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the device type label was applied to the positive feature vectors via active learning.
14. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: receive, from a user interface, an indication that a particular device type label is sensitive; and prevent a digest that includes the particular device type label from being sent to the cloud service.
15. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus applies differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors by: applying a discrete exponential mechanism to the reduced set of feature vectors, to change values in the feature vectors.
16. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the device type label is indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
17. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the apparatus replaces similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors, by: assigning a weight to the single feature vector based on a number of the similar feature vectors in the set.
18. The apparatus as in claim 17, wherein the apparatus applies differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors further by: adjusting the weight assigned to the single feature vector.
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a device to execute a process comprising: obtaining, by a device in a network, data indicative of a device classification rule, a device type label associated with the rule, and a set of positive and negative feature vectors used to create the rule; replacing, by the device, similar feature vectors in the set of positive and negative feature vectors with a single feature vector, to form a reduced set of feature vectors; applying, by the device, differential privacy to the reduced set of feature vectors; and sending, by the device, a digest to a cloud service, wherein the digest comprises the device classification rule, the device type label, and the reduced set of feature vectors to which differential privacy was applied, and wherein the service uses the digest to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 19, wherein the device type labels are indicative of one or more of: a device manufacturer, a device model, or device version.
</claims>
</document>
