<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B6/12,G02B6/122,G02B6/13,H01L21/027
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIGHTMATTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMEY, CARL
GOULD, MICHAEL
HARRIS, NICHOLAS C.
BUNANDAR, DARIUS
BRAID, RYAN
GRAHAM, THOMAS
TYMCHENKO, MYKHAILO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72336351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHOTONIC COMMUNICATION PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are photonic communication platforms that can overcome the memory bottleneck problem, thereby enabling scaling of memory capacity and bandwidth well beyond what is possible with conventional computing systems. Some embodiments provide photonic communication platforms that involve use of photonic modules. Each photonic module includes programmable photonic circuits for placing the module in optical communication with other modules based on the needs of a particular application. The architecture developed by the inventors relies on the use of common photomask sets (or at least one common photomask) to fabricate multiple photonic modules in a single wafer. Photonic modules in multiple wafers can be linked together into a communication platform using optical or electronic means.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A photonic system comprising: a plurality of photonic modules including at least first and second photonic modules patterned according to at least one common photomask, each of the first and second photonic modules comprising: first and second boundaries; an optical distribution network; a first optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a first neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the first neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the first boundary; and a second optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a second neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the second neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the second boundary.
2. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein the first and second boundaries are opposite to one another.
3. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein the first and second optical waveguides are patterned according to the at least one common photomask.
4. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second photonic modules further comprises an out-of-plane optical coupler optically coupled to the optical distribution network.
5. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein the optical distribution network is configured to selectively place the first neighboring photonic module in optical communication with the second neighboring photonic module.
6. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second photonic modules is patterned according to a common set of photomasks, wherein the at least one common photomask is part of the common set of photomasks.
7. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein each of the first and second photonic modules further comprises: third and fourth boundaries, wherein the first and second boundaries are opposite to one another and the third and fourth boundaries are opposite to one another; a third optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a third neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the third neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the third boundary; and a fourth optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a fourth neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the fourth neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the fourth boundary.
8. The photonic system of claim 7, wherein the optical distribution network is configured to selectively place the first neighboring photonic module in optical communication with the second neighboring photonic module or the third neighboring photonic module.
9. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein the optical distribution network comprises a plurality of optical switches.
10. The photonic system of claim 1, wherein the first and second photonic modules are adjacent to one another such that the second photonic module is the first neighboring photonic module for the first photonic module.
11. A computing system comprising: a photonic substrate patterned with a plurality of photonic modules including at least first and second photonic modules, each of the first and second photonic modules being patterned according to at least one common photomask, wherein the first photonic module is optically coupled to the second photonic module; a first die in communication with the first photonic module; and a second die in communication with the second photonic module.
12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the first die comprises a processor and the second die comprises a memory.
13. The computing system of claim 11, further comprising a laser die coupled to the photonic substrate.
14. The computing system of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second photonic modules comprises: first and second boundaries; an optical distribution network; a first optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a first neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the first neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the first boundary; and a second optical waveguide optically coupling the optical distribution network to a second neighboring photonic module of the plurality of photonic modules, the second neighboring photonic module being adjacent to the second boundary.
15. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the first and second boundaries are opposite to one another.
16. The computing system of claim 14, wherein the first and second optical waveguides are patterned according to the at least one common photomask.
17. The computing system of claim 11, wherein each of the first and second photonic module comprises an out-of-plane optical coupler, wherein: the first die is optically coupled to the out-of-plane optical coupler of the first photonic module, and the second die is optically coupled to the out-of-plane optical coupler of the second photonic module.
18. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the first die is coupled to a first side of the photonic substrate and the second die is coupled to a second side of the photonic substrate opposite the first side.
19. The computing system of claim 11, further comprising a third die stacked on top of the first die.
20. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the first and second photonic modules share a boundary such that the first photonic module is adjacent to the second photonic module.
21. The computing system of claim 11, wherein: the first die is mounted above or below the first photonic module; and the second die is mounted above or below the second photonic module.
22. The computing system of claim 11, wherein: the first die is in electronic communication with the first photonic module, and the second die is in electronic communication with the second photonic module.
23. A photonic communication platform comprising: a photonic network comprising a plurality of optical switches formed on a semiconductor substrate; a plurality of dies in communication with the photonic network; an electronic switching network comprising a plurality of transistors co-integrated with the plurality of optical switches, the electronic switching network being configured to: at a first time, program the optical switches to form a first optical communication path coupling together a first subset of the plurality of dies, and at a second time subsequent to the first time, program the optical switches to form a second optical communication path coupling together a second subset of the plurality of dies, the second optical communication path being distinct from the first communication path.
24. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein the plurality of transistors are formed on the semiconductor substrate.
25. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein the semiconductor substrate is a first semiconductor substrate, and wherein the plurality of transistors are formed on a second semiconductor substrate, wherein the first and second semiconductor substrates are 3D-bonded together.
26. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein programming the optical switches to form a first optical communication path comprises: identifying an optical communication path coupling together first subset of the plurality of dies; and programming the optical switches based on the identified optical communication path.
27. The photonic communication platform of claim 26, wherein identifying an optical communication path coupling together first subset of the plurality of dies comprises monitoring a usage of the photonic network.
28. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein the electronic switching network is further configured to: determine at least one characteristic of an optical signal at the first optical communication path; identify an encoding scheme based on the at least one characteristic of the optical signal; and cause the photonic network to communicate optically on the first optical communication path based on the encoding scheme.
29. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein the plurality of dies are in electronic communication with the photonic network.
30. The photonic communication platform of claim 23, wherein the electronic switching network is further configured to cause the photonic network to communicate optically on the first optical communication path using wavelength division multiplexing.
</claims>
</document>
