<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6886,G06F16/28,G06F17/18,G16B20/00,G16B40/00,G16B45/00,G16B5/00,G16B5/20,G16B50/00,G16H10/20,G16H20/00,G16H20/10,G16H20/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/50,G16H50/70,G16H70/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTONGENE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATAULLAKHANOV, RAVSHAN
BAGAEV, ALEXANDER
FRENKEL, FELIKS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62779138
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING SUBJECT SEQUENCING DATA AND A DATABASE OF THERAPY BIOMARKER DISTRIBUTIONS TO DETERMINE THERAPY IMPACT
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for generating therapy biomarker scores and visualizing same. The techniques include determining, using a patient's sequence data and distributions of biomarker values across one or more reference populations, a first set of normalized scores for a first set of biomarkers associated with a first therapy, and a second set of normalized scores for a second set of biomarkers associated with a second therapy, generating a graphical user interface (GUI) including a first portion associated with the first therapy and having at least one visual characteristic determined based on a normalized score of the respective biomarker in the first set of normalized scores; and a second portion associated with a second therapy and having at least one visual characteristic determined based on a normalized score of the respective biomarker in the second set of normalized scores; and displaying the generated GUI.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: using at least one computer hardware processor to perform: obtaining first sequencing data obtained by sequencing a first biological sample of a subject having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer, the first biological sample of the subject obtained prior to administration of a therapy to the subject; obtaining second sequencing data by sequencing a second biological sample of the subject, the second biological sample of the subject obtained subsequent to administration of the therapy to the subject; accessing, in at least one database, biomarker information indicating a distribution of values for each biomarker in a plurality of biomarkers, the plurality of biomarkers including a first biomarker associated with the therapy, the biomarker information including a first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining, using the first sequencing data, the second sequencing data, and the biomarker information, an impact score for the therapy, wherein the impact score is indicative of response of the subject to administration of the therapy, the determining comprising: determining a first set of normalized scores for a set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, the determining comprising determining a first normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a first statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining a second set of normalized scores for the set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, wherein the determining comprises determining a second normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a second statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores, wherein the therapy is selected from the group consisting of: an anti-PD1 therapy, an anti-CTLA4 therapy, an IL-2 therapy, an IFN alpha therapy, an anti-cancer vaccine therapy, an anti-angiogenic therapy, an anti-CD20 therapy, an immunotherapy, a T cell therapy, and a targeted therapy.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a difference score for each biomarker in the set of biomarkers to obtain a set of biomarker difference scores for the subject; and determining the impact score using the set of biomarker difference scores.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a first subject score for the set of biomarkers using the first set of normalized biomarker scores; determining a second subject score for the set of biomarkers using the second set of normalized biomarker scores; and determining the impact score based on a difference between the second subject score and the first subject score.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least three biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least five biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least ten biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first normalized score comprises: determining a first un-normalized score for the first biomarker using the first sequencing data; determining a first Z-score based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the first normalized score for the first biomarker based on the first un-normalized score and the first Z-score.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: administering the therapy to the subject subsequent to obtaining the first biological sample from the subject and prior to obtaining second biological sample of the subject.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising sequencing the first biological sample to obtain the first sequencing data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of biomarkers includes the set of biomarkers associated with the therapy.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of normalized scores includes at least two scores and the second set of normalized scores includes at least two scores.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the therapy is a checkpoint inhibitor therapy.
13. A system, comprising: at least one computer hardware processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor executable instructions that when executed by the at least one computer hardware processor, cause the computer hardware processor to perform: obtaining first sequencing data obtained by sequencing a first biological sample of a subject having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer, the first biological sample of the subject obtained prior to administration of a therapy to the subject; obtaining second sequencing data by sequencing a second biological sample of the subject, the second biological sample of the subject obtained subsequent to administration of the therapy to the subject; accessing, in at least one database, biomarker information indicating a distribution of values for each biomarker in a plurality of biomarkers, the plurality of biomarkers including a first biomarker associated with the therapy, the biomarker information including a first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining, using the first sequencing data, the second sequencing data, and the biomarker information, an impact score for the therapy, wherein the impact score is indicative of response of the subject to administration of the therapy, the determining comprising: determining a first set of normalized scores for a set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, the determining comprising determining a first normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a first statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining a second set of normalized scores for the set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, wherein the determining comprises determining a second normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a second statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores, wherein the therapy is selected from the group consisting of: an anti-PD1 therapy, an anti-CTLA4 therapy, an IL-2 therapy, an IFN alpha therapy, an anti-cancer vaccine therapy, an anti-angiogenic therapy, an anti-CD20 therapy, an immunotherapy, a T cell therapy, and a targeted therapy.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a difference score for each biomarker in the set of biomarkers to obtain a set of biomarker difference scores for the subject; and determining the impact score using the set of biomarker difference scores.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a first subject score for the set of biomarkers using the first set of normalized biomarker scores; determining a second subject score for the set of biomarkers using the second set of normalized biomarker scores; and determining the impact score based on a difference between the second subject score and the first subject score.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least three biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least ten biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein determining the first normalized score comprises: determining a first un-normalized score for the first biomarker using the first sequencing data; determining a first Z-score based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the first normalized score for the first biomarker based on the first un-normalized score and the first Z-score.
19. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing processor executable instructions that when executed by the at least one computer hardware processor, cause the computer hardware processor to perform: obtaining first sequencing data obtained by sequencing a first biological sample of a subject having, suspected of having, or at risk of having cancer, the first biological sample of the subject obtained prior to administration of a therapy to the subject; obtaining second sequencing data by sequencing a second biological sample of the subject, the second biological sample of the subject obtained subsequent to administration of the therapy to the subject; accessing, in at least one database, biomarker information indicating a distribution of values for each biomarker in a plurality of biomarkers, the plurality of biomarkers including a first biomarker associated with the therapy, the biomarker information including a first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining, using the first sequencing data, the second sequencing data, and the biomarker information, an impact score for the therapy, wherein the impact score is indicative of response of the subject to administration of the therapy, the determining comprising: determining a first set of normalized scores for a set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, the determining comprising determining a first normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a first statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; determining a second set of normalized scores for the set of biomarkers associated with the therapy, wherein the determining comprises determining a second normalized score for the first biomarker at least in part by determining a second statistical score for the first biomarker based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores, wherein the therapy is selected from the group consisting of: an anti-PD1 therapy, an anti-CTLA4 therapy, an IL-2 therapy, an IFN alpha therapy, an anti-cancer vaccine therapy, an anti-angiogenic therapy, an anti-CD20 therapy, an immunotherapy, a T cell therapy, and a targeted therapy.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a difference score for each biomarker in the set of biomarkers to obtain a set of biomarker difference scores for the subject; and determining the impact score using the set of biomarker difference scores.
21. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein determining the impact score using the first set of normalized scores and the second set of normalized scores comprises: determining a first subject score for the set of biomarkers using the first set of normalized biomarker scores; determining a second subject score for the set of biomarkers using the second set of normalized biomarker scores; and determining the impact score based on a difference between the second subject score and the first subject score.
22. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least three biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
23. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the set of biomarkers comprises at least ten biomarkers selected from the group of biomarkers associated with the therapy in Table 2.
24. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein determining the first normalized score comprises: determining a first un-normalized score for the first biomarker using the first sequencing data; determining a first Z-score based on the first distribution of values for the first biomarker; and determining the first normalized score for the first biomarker based on the first un-normalized score and the first Z-score.
</claims>
</document>
