<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/54,G01R33/567
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKESHIMA, HIDENORI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a magnetic resonance imaging apparatus includes imaging control circuitry and processing circuitry. The imaging control circuitry acquires MR signals in accordance with a first pulse sequence set in an imaging protocol. The processing circuitry determines, during MR signal acquisition according to the first pulse sequence, whether or not additional acquisition of MR signals is necessary based on a determination of image quality based on the acquired MR signals, and if necessity of additional acquisition is determined, adds a second pulse sequence for the additional acquisition to the imaging protocol. The imaging control circuitry acquires MR signals in accordance with the added second pulse sequence. The processing circuitry reconstructs an MR image based on the MR signals acquired through the first pulse sequence and the second pulse sequence.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus comprising imaging control circuitry and processing circuitry, the imaging control circuitry configured to acquire MR signals in accordance with a first pulse sequence set in an imaging protocol, the processing circuitry configured to determine, during acquisition according to the first pulse sequence, whether or not additional acquisition of MR signals is necessary in accordance with a determination of image quality based on the acquired MR signals, and to add a second pulse sequence for the additional acquisition to the imaging protocol if it is determined that the additional acquisition is necessary, the imaging control circuitry configured to acquire MR signals in accordance with the added second pulse sequence, and the processing circuitry configured to reconstruct an MR image based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and the second pulse sequence.
2. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary after a predetermined period of time is elapsed since a start time of the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence.
3. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: obtain a body motion state of a subject during the acquisition of MR signals according to the first pulse sequence; and determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary based on the body motion state and a data amount of the acquired MR signals after a predetermined period of time is elapsed since a start time of the acquisition performed in accordance with the first pulse sequence.
4. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: distinguish the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence into multiple classes corresponding to the body motion state; specify a data amount of the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence for each of the multiple classes; specify a maximum class in which a data amount is largest among the multiple classes; determine that the additional acquisition is necessary if the data amount of the maximum class is smaller than a reference value; add, as the second pulse sequence, trajectories different from the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence belonging to the maximum class; and reconstruct the MR image based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and second pulse sequence belonging to the maximum class.
5. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: distinguish the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence into multiple classes corresponding to the body motion state; specify a data amount of the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence for each of the multiple classes; determine that the additional acquisition is necessary if the data amount of at least one of the multiple classes is smaller than a reference value; add, as the second pulse sequence, trajectories different from the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence belonging to the at least one class; and reconstruct the MR image corresponding to each of the multiple classes based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and second pulse sequence classified into the multiple classes.
6. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: reconstruct an MR image for the body motion state based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence for the body motion state; and determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary based on noise intensity in the MR image of the body motion state.
7. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: reconstruct an MR image for the body motion state based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence for the body motion state; and determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary based on an amount of artifact detected in the MR image for the body motion state.
8. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to obtain a respiration level of the subject as the body motion state.
9. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to obtain the body motion state based on registration between first non-reconstructed image data based on MR signals acquired within a reference period shorter than a total period of the first pulse sequence, and second non-reconstructed image data based on MR signals acquired within each of a plurality of partial periods shorter than the reference period, the second non-reconstructed image data corresponding to each of the plurality of partial periods.
10. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: reconstruct a reference image based on the MR signals acquired within the reference period shorter than a period of the first pulse sequence; reconstruct partial images respectively corresponding to a plurality of partial periods shorter than the reference period, based on the MR signals acquired in each of the partial periods; and obtain the body motion state based on registration between the reference image and the partial images.
11. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first pulse sequence and the second pulse sequence include, as a parameter, trajectories indicating acquisition positions of MR signals in k-space.
12. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to set, before the beginning of the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence, trajectories of the second pulse sequence in such a manner as not to overlap the trajectories of the first pulse sequence.
13. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to calculate an upper limit of a sum of a data amount of MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and a data amount of MR signals acquired according to the second pulse sequence, based on a specific absorption rate determined before the beginning of the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence, the imaging control circuitry is configured to stop the acquisition according to the second pulse sequence when the sum reaches the upper limit, the processing circuitry is configured to reconstruct the MR image based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and the MR signals acquired according to the second pulse sequence before the stopping of the acquisition according to the second pulse sequence.
14. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a display which displays, if it is determined that the additional acquisition is necessary, at least one of: execution of the additional acquisition; an imaging time increased as a result of executing the additional acquisition; or an expected finish time of imaging including the additional acquisition.
15. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the imaging control circuitry performs acquisition according to the second pulse sequence subsequently to the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence.
16. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary after a predetermined period of time is elapsed since a start time of the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence, and before a time determined by subtracting a time required for determining whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary and adding trajectories of the second pulse sequence from an expected finish time of the acquisition according to the first pulse sequence.
17. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an interface through which an imaging total time is input, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine the second pulse sequence based on the first pulse sequence of the imaging total time.
18. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an interface configured to input an instruction to stop acquisition according to the second pulse sequence, wherein the imaging control circuitry is configured to stop the acquisition according to the second pulse sequence upon an input of the instruction to stop, and the processing circuitry is configured to reconstruct the MR image based on the MR signals acquired according to the first pulse sequence and the MR signals acquired according to the second pulse sequence until the instruction to stop is input.
19. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to reconstruct the MR image with the use of parallel imaging, compression sensing, or a learned neural network.
20. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: calculate reliability level information to evaluate the image quality based on the acquired MR signals; and determine whether or not the additional acquisition is necessary based on the reliability level information.
21. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 20, wherein the reliability level information is a data amount of the acquired MR signals, a level of difference from a subject model, an amount of detected artifact resulting from a body motion of a subject, and a level of difference in pixel values due to a delay of a contrast agent.
22. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to determine whether or not additional acquisition is necessary based on a learned model into which an MR image is input and from which a level of allowable image quality of the MR image is output, and an MR image based on the acquired MR signals.
</claims>
</document>
