<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N15/14,G02B21/00,G02B21/24,G02B21/36,G02B7/38,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NANOTRONICS IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PUTMAN, MATTHEW, C.
PUTMAN; JOHN B.
PINSKIY, VADIM
SHAROUKHOV, DENIS Y.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64451756
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, DEVICES AND METHODS FOR AUTOMATIC MICROSCOPE FOCUS
</title>

<abstract>
An automatic focus system for an optical microscope that facilitates faster focusing by using at least two offset focusing cameras. Each offset focusing camera can be positioned on a different side of an image forming conjugate plane so that their sharpness curves intersect at the image forming conjugate plane. Focus of a specimen can be adjusted by using sharpness values determined from images taken by the offset focusing cameras.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A method for automatically focusing a microscope, comprising: receiving, by a computing system from a first camera of the microscope, a first image of a specimen positioned on a stage of the microscope at a first position; receiving, by the computing system from a second camera of the microscope, a second image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the first position; measuring, by a computing system, a first sharpness value of the specimen based on the first image and a second sharpness value of the specimen based on the second image; causing, by the computing system, adjustment of the stage of the microscope to a second position distinct from the first position; receiving, by the computing system from the first camera, a third image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; receiving, by the computing system from the second camera of the microscope, a fourth image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; measuring, by a computing system, a third sharpness value of the specimen based on the third image and a fourth sharpness value of the specimen based on the fourth image; and focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting a relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within a threshold sharpness level.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating, by the computing system, a first line between the first image and the third image, wherein the first position and the first sharpness value are a first set of coordinates and the second position and the third sharpness value are a second set of coordinates; and calculating, by the computing system, a first slope of the first line.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: generating, by the computing system, a second line between the second image and the fourth image, wherein the first position and the second sharpness value are a third set of coordinates and the second position and the fourth sharpness value are a fourth set of coordinates; and calculating, by the computing system, a second slope of the second line.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope and the second slope being non-negative.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: decreasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the second slope being negative.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope being non-positive, the second slope being non-negative, and the third sharpness level is greater than the fourth sharpness level.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: decreasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope being non-positive, the second slope being non-negative, and the third sharpness level is less than the fourth sharpness level.
9. A system, comprising: a processor in communication with a microscope; and a memory having programming instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by the processor, performs one or more operations, comprising: receiving, from a first camera of the microscope, a first image of a specimen positioned on a stage of the microscope at a first position; receiving, from a second camera of the microscope, a second image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the first position; measuring a first sharpness value of the specimen based on the first image and a second sharpness value of the specimen based on the second image; causing adjustment of the stage of the microscope to a second position distinct from the first position; receiving, from the first camera, a third image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; receiving, from the second camera of the microscope, a fourth image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; measuring, by a computing system, a third sharpness value of the specimen based on the third image and a fourth sharpness value of the specimen based on the fourth image; and focusing the first camera and the second camera by adjusting a relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within a threshold sharpness level.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: generating a first line between the first image and the third image, wherein the first position and the first sharpness value are a first set of coordinates and the second position and the third sharpness value are a second set of coordinates; and calculating a first slope of the first line.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: generating a second line between the second image and the fourth image, wherein the first position and the second sharpness value are a third set of coordinates and the second position and the fourth sharpness value are a fourth set of coordinates; and calculating a second slope of the second line.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein focusing the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope and the second slope being non-negative.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein focusing the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: decreasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the second slope being negative.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein focusing the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope being non-positive, the second slope being non-negative, and the third sharpness level is greater than the fourth sharpness level.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein focusing the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: decreasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope being non-positive, the second slope being non-negative, and the third sharpness level is less than the fourth sharpness level.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions, which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations, comprising: receiving, by a computing system from a first camera of a microscope, a first image of a specimen positioned on a stage of the microscope at a first position; receiving, by the computing system from a second camera of the microscope, a second image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the first position; measuring, by a computing system, a first sharpness value of the specimen based on the first image and a second sharpness value of the specimen based on the second image; causing, by the computing system, adjustment of the stage of the microscope to a second position distinct from the first position; receiving, by the computing system from the first camera, a third image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; receiving, by the computing system from the second camera of the microscope, a fourth image of the specimen positioned on the stage of the microscope at the second position; measuring, by a computing system, a third sharpness value of the specimen based on the third image and a fourth sharpness value of the specimen based on the fourth image; and focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting a relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within a threshold sharpness level.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: generating, by the computing system, a first line between the first image and the third image, wherein the first position and the first sharpness value are a first set of coordinates and the second position and the third sharpness value are a second set of coordinates; and calculating, by the computing system, a first slope of the first line.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising: generating, by the computing system, a second line between the second image and the fourth image, wherein the first position and the second sharpness value are a third set of coordinates and the second position and the fourth sharpness value are a fourth set of coordinates; and calculating, by the computing system, a second slope of the second line.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope and the second slope being non-negative.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: decreasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the second slope being negative.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein focusing, by the computing system, the first camera and the second camera by adjusting the relative distance between the first position and the second position, until images generated by the first camera and the second camera are within the threshold sharpness level comprises: increasing the relative distance between the first position and the second position based on the first slope being non-positive, the second slope being non-negative, and the third sharpness level is greater than the fourth sharpness level.
</claims>
</document>
