<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32,G01S17/89,G01S17/931,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, JIEUN
SHIM, JUNGMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74065211
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOVING ROBOT AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A moving robot includes: a sensor to acquire terrain information; a memory to store node data for at least one node; and a controller, and the controller determines whether at least one open movement direction exists among a plurality of movement directions, based on sensing data and the node data, generates a new node in the node data when at least one open movement direction exists, determines any one of the open movement directions as a traveling direction for the robot, determines whether at least one of the nodes needs to be updated exists, based on the node data when the open movement direction does not exist, controls the moving robot to move to one of the nodes that need to be updated, and generates of a map including the at least one node, based on the node data, when the node that needs to be updated does not exist.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A moving robot comprising: a driving wheel configured to move a main body of the moving robot; a lidar sensor configured to acquire sensing data regarding terrain outside of the main body; a memory configured to store node data for at least one node; and a controller configured to: determine whether at least one open movement direction is present among a plurality of movement directions from the main body, based on the sensing data of the lidar sensor and the node data, generate a new node in the node data when the at least one open movement direction are present, select one of the at least one open movement direction as a traveling direction in which the driving wheel moves the main body, determine whether one or more nodes be updated are present among the at least one node, based on the node data, when the at least one open movement direction is not present, control, when the one or more nodes to be updated are present, the riving wheel so that the main body moves to one of the nodes to be updated, and complete generation of a map including the at least one node, based on the node data, when the one or more nodes to be updated are not present.
2. The moving robot of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to: determine a first subset of the plurality of movement directions in which the moving robot is able to travel, determine a second subset of the plurality of movement directions in which the moving robot has not previously traveled, and determine ones of the plurality of movement directions included in the first subset and the second subset as the at least one open movement direction.
3. The moving robot of claim 2, wherein the node data includes node coordinates and a data value for each of the plurality of movement directions, with respect to each of the at least one node.
4. The moving robot of claim 3, wherein the data value for one of the plurality of movement directions from one of the at least one node is set to one of a first data value indicating that the movement direction is an open movement direction from the node, a second data value indicating that the moving robot is unable to travel from the node in the movement direction, or a third data value indicating that another node is positioned in the movement direction from the node.
5. The moving robot of claim 4, wherein the controller is configured to: determine whether one of the movement directions is the travel direction of the moving robot and corresponds to one of the at least one open movement direction, and generate the new node when the movement direction is the travel direction and does not correspond to one of the at least one open movement direction.
6. The moving robot of claim 5, wherein the controller is configured to: determine whether only the one movement direction that is the travel direction, among the plurality of movement directions, corresponds to the at least one open movement direction, control the traveling unit so that the moving robot moves in the travel direction without generating a new node, when only the one of the movement directions that is the travel direction corresponds to the at least one open movement direction, and generate the new node, when two or more of the movement directions including the one movement direction that is the travel direction correspond to the at least one open movement direction.
7. The moving robot of claim 6, wherein the controller is configured to update the data values for the plurality of movement directions of each of the at least one node included in the node data when generating the new node.
8. The moving robot of claim 7, wherein the controller is configured to determine, with respect to at least one of the data value for each of the plurality of movement directions, a node set as the first data value indicating the open movement direction, as a node be updated.
9. The moving robot of claim 8, wherein the controller is configured to determine a node positioned in a shortest distance from a current position of the moving robot among nodes be updated, based on the node data, and controls the driving wheel so that the moving robot moves to the node positioned in the shortest distance from the current position of the moving robot among the nodes to be updated.
10. The moving robot of claim 9, further comprising least one camera configured to acquire an image outside of the main body, wherein the controller is configured to extract a feature from the image, map the extracted feature to the map, and determine a position of the moving robot based on the feature mapped to the map.
11. A method of controlling a moving robot, the method comprising: determining whether at least one open movement direction is included among of a plurality of movement directions with respect to a current location of the moving robot; generating, when the at least one open movement direction is included among of the plurality of movement directions, a new node in the node data and control the moving robot to move in a traveling direction associated with one of the at least one open movement direction; determining whether one of the at least one node is to be updated when none of the plurality of movement directions is open with respect to a current location of the moving robot and control, when one of the nodes is to be updated, the moving robot to travel to the one of the nodes to be updated; and generating a map based on the node data when no open movement direction is included among of the plurality of movement directions and none of the at least one node is be updated.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining whether at least one open movement direction included among of a plurality of movement directions includes: determining whether the moving robot is able to travel, with respect to each of the plurality of movement directions; and determining whether the moving robot has previously traveled along of the plurality of movement directions from the current location; and determining, among the plurality of movement directions, one of the movement directions in which the moving robot is able to travel and along which the moving robot has not previously traveled, as one of the at least one open movement direction.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the node data includes coordinates the at least one node and a data value for each of the plurality of movement directions with respect to each of the at least one node.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the data value for one of the plurality of movement directions from one of the at least one node is set to one of a first data value indicating that the movement direction is an open movement direction from the node, a second data value indicating that the moving robot is unable to travel from the node in the movement direction, or a third data value indicating that another node is positioned in the movement direction from the node.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein generating a new node includes: determining whether the movement direction determined as the travel direction corresponds to one of the at least one open movement direction; and generating the new node when the movement direction determined as the travel direction does not correspond to one of the at least one open movement direction.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein generating the new node further includes: determining whether only the movement direction determined as the travel direction, among the plurality of movement directions, corresponds to the at least one open movement direction; moving in the travel direction without generating the new node when only the movement direction determined as the travel direction corresponds to the at least one open movement direction; and generating the new node when two or more of the movement directions, including the movement direction determined as the travel direction, correspond to the at least one open movement direction.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein generating the new node further includes updating the data value for each of the plurality of movement directions of each of the at least one node included in the node data.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein determining one of the at least one node to be updated includes determine, with respect to at least one of the data value for each of the plurality of movement directions, a node set as the first data value indicating the open movement direction, as a node be updated.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein moving to one of the nodes to be updated includes: determining a node positioned a shortest distance from the current position of the moving robot, among nodes to be updated, based on the node data; and controlling the moving robot to move to the node positioned the shortest distance from the current position of the moving robot.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: extracting a feature from an image of a region at an exterior of the moving robot; mapping the extracted feature to the map; and determining a position of the moving robot based on the feature mapped to the map.
</claims>
</document>
