<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERB SURGICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILLER, DENISE ANN
VENKATARAMAN, JAGADISH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67620546
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE-LEARNING-BASED VISUAL-HAPTIC FEEDBACK SYSTEM FOR ROBOTIC SURGICAL PLATFORMS
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments described herein provide various examples of a visual-haptic feedback system for generating a haptic feedback signal based on captured endoscopy images. In one aspect, the process for generating the haptic feedback signal includes the steps of: receiving an endoscopic video captured for a surgical procedure performed on a robotic surgical system; detecting a surgical task in the endoscopic video involving a given type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; selecting, a machine learning model constructed for analyzing the given type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; for a video image associated with the detected surgical task depicting the given type of surgical tool-tissue interaction, applying the selected machine learning model to the video image to predict a strength level of the depicted surgical tool-tissue interaction; and then providing the predicted strength level to a surgeon performing the surgical task as a haptic feedback signal for the given type of surgical tool-tissue interaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. (canceled)
2. A computer-implemented method for generating a real-time haptic feedback based on a surgical video containing interactions between surgical tools and tissues, the method comprising: receiving a surgical video of a surgical procedure; processing the surgical video to detect, in real time, a first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction captured in the surgical video caused by applying a force on a tissue using one or more surgical tools; applying a first machine learning model to one or more video images in the surgical video associated with the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction to predict a strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; and outputting the predicted strength level to a surgeon performing the surgical procedure as a real-time haptic feedback signal.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein processing the surgical video to detect the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction includes detecting the one or more surgical tools appearing in the surgical video.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein prior to applying the first machine learning model to the one or more video images, the method further comprises selecting the first machine learning model from a set of machine learning models based on the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction, wherein each machine learning model in the set of machine learning models is constructed to analyze a given type of surgical tool-tissue interaction in a plurality types of surgical tool-tissue interactions.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the first machine learning model is trained to classify the one or more video images associated with the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction as a first strength level within a set of predetermined strength levels defined for the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein classifying the one or more video images as the first strength level within the set of predetermined strength levels includes recognizing a first pattern of visual appearance among a set of predefined patterns of visual appearances associated with the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein outputting the predicted strength level to the surgeon performing the surgical procedure includes: converting the predicted strength level into a physical feedback signal; and communicating the physical feedback signal to the surgeon performing the surgical procedure in real time via a user interface device (UID).
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the physical feedback signal is a mechanical vibration, and wherein communicating the physical feedback signal to the surgeon via the UID includes transmitting the mechanical vibration to a remote controller of the UID held by the surgeon so that the surgeon can directly feel the physical feedback signal.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises using different frequencies or different intensities of the mechanical vibration to represent different predetermined strength levels of the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction is caused by applying one of: a compression force on the tissue using the one or more surgical tools; a tensile force on the tissue using the one or more surgical tools; and a combination of a compression force and a tensile force on the tissue using the one or more surgical tools.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein prior to predicting the strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction, the method further includes: processing the surgical video to determine if there is a pause in the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; and if so, triggering the first machine learning model to predict the strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction, otherwise, delaying applying the first machine learning model to predict the strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction while continuing detecting a pause in the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the pause in the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction is caused by the surgeon performing the surgical procedure intentionally holding the tissue steadily for a given period of time; and wherein the haptic feedback signal outputted during the given period of time remains a constant, thereby allowing the surgeon a sufficient amount of time to understand and react to the predicted strength level.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction is associated with one of: tying a surgical knot during a suture operation; pulling on the tissue during a cautery operation; and compressing the tissue during a stapling operation.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the set of predetermined strength levels includes a maximum strength level, and wherein if the predicted strength level is determined to be above the maximum strength level, the method further comprises configuring the haptic feedback signal as a warning signal.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises: generating a pressure sensor measurement using a pressure sensor integrated at a tip of the one or more surgical tools; and generating the haptic feedback signal by combining the predicted strength level and the pressure sensor measurement.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the surgical video includes one or more of: an endoscope video; a laparoscope video; and a robotic surgical video.
17. An apparatus for generating a real-time haptic feedback based on a surgical video containing interactions between surgical tools and tissues, the apparatus comprising: a receiving module configured to receive a surgical video of a surgical procedure; one or more processors configured to: process the surgical video to detect, in real time, a first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction captured in the surgical video caused by applying a force on a tissue using one or more surgical tools; and apply a first machine learning model to one or more video images in the surgical video associated with the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction to predict a strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; and an user interface module configured to output the predicted strength level to a surgeon performing the surgical procedure as a real-time haptic feedback signal.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the user interface module is configured to output the predicted strength level to the surgeon by: converting the predicted strength level into a physical feedback signal; and communicating the physical feedback signal to the surgeon performing the surgical procedure as the real-time haptic feedback signal.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the apparatus further includes a pressure sensor integrated at a tip of the one or more surgical tools and configured to generate a pressure sensor measurement; and wherein the user interface module is further configured to generate the haptic feedback signal by combining the predicted strength level and the pressure sensor measurement.
20. A robotic surgical system, comprising: one or more surgical tools each coupled to a robotic arm; an endoscope configured to capture endoscopic videos; a receiving module configured to receive a captured endoscopic video of a surgical procedure performed on the robotic surgical system; one or more processors configured to: process the endoscopic video to detect, in real time, a first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction captured in the endoscopic video caused by applying a force on a tissue using the one or more surgical tools; and apply a first machine learning model to one or more video images in the endoscopic video associated with the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction to predict a strength level of the detected first type of surgical tool-tissue interaction; and a user interface module configured to output the predicted strength level to a surgeon performing the surgical procedure as a real-time haptic feedback signal.
21. The robotic surgical system of claim 20, wherein the user interface module is further configured to output the predicted strength level to the surgeon by: converting the predicted strength level into a physical feedback signal; and communicating the physical feedback signal to the surgeon performing the surgical procedure as the real-time haptic feedback signal.
</claims>
</document>
