<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUTODESK
</assignee>

<inventors>
KASKIRIS, CHARIS
KEANEY, PATRICIA
GOEL, SHUBHAM
VENUGOPAL, MANU
BITLER, BRAD LEE
XU, XIN
RAJAGOPAL, ANAND
REZVANI, MARYAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161969
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARCHITECTURE, ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION (AEC) CONSTRUCTION SAFETY RISK ANALYSIS SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INTERACTIVE VISUALIZATION AND CAPTURE
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method and system provide the ability to determine and provide a safety risk analysis for construction. Construction related data is obtained and includes textual data and a visual artifact for the construction project. A construction safety context is identified based on the construction related data. Based on the construction safety context, a safety participant risk score that assigns a numerical safety risk participant value to any entity involved in the construction project is determined. Based on the safety risk participant score, a safety project score that assigns a risk level on a per-project basis is determined. The safety risk analysis is presented based on the safety participant risk score and safety project score, via a graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining and providing a safety risk analysis for construction, comprising: obtaining construction related data, wherein the construction related data comprises textual data for a construction project and a visual artifact for the construction project; identifying a construction safety context based on the construction related data; based on the construction safety context, determining a safety participant risk score that assigns a numerical safety risk participant value to any entity involved in the construction project; based on the safety risk participant score, determining a safety project score that assigns a risk level on a per-project basis; and presenting the safety risk analysis, based on the safety participant risk score and safety project score, via a graphical user interface.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the construction related data comprises: the textual data comprising a textual description based on user input; the visual artifact comprising a photograph of safety observations on a construction site; an incident tracking report; automatically generated issues that are automatically generated based on construction work on the construction site; and metadata comprising user generated categorizations.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: based on the construction related data, utilizing a trained neural network model to generate neural word embeddings in the construction safety context; based on the generated neural word embeddings, identifying a similarity between different blobs of text in the construction safety context; based on the similarity, measuring hazard frequency and hazard recency; constructing a safety risk model based on the hazard frequency and recency; and utilizing the safety risk model to determine the safety participant risk score and the safety project score.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the construction safety context comprises: determining that indicators in the textual data points to a potential safety risk associated with a fatal four risk category; and identifying the construction safety context as a high safety risk category.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the construction safety context comprises: utilizing a set of rules and prediction models to determine that the textual data is an indicator of context relating to a housekeeping issue, wherein housekeeping issues are indicative of a safety hazard; and tracking and providing a recency and frequency of housekeeping behavior to an end user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the construction safety context comprises: utilizing a set of rules and prediction models to determine that the textual data is an indicator of context relating to a potential safety risk or hazard within one or more different safety classes; and labeling a safety issue as a potential safety risk or hazard based on the determination.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the construction safety context comprises: utilizing a set of rules and artificial intelligence prediction models to identify, in the visual artifact, an object and an activity; utilizing the set of rules and artificial intelligence prediction models to determine that the object and the activity are indicators of a context relating to a potential safety risk within one or more different safety classes; and labeling a safety issue as a potential safety hazard based on the indicators.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the labeling the safety issue further comprises: corroborating the indicators with the textual data.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the construction safety context comprises: extracting, from the textual data, textual features; modeling, using machine learning classifiers, the textual features; and utilizing the modeling to determine whether a content and context of the textual data reflects a positive or negative sentiment, wherein the positive or negative sentiment affects the safety participant risk score.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining the safety participant risk score comprises: utilizing a risk assessment model to generate a set of features, wherein the set of features comprise positive observations, hazard identification, and safety risk identification; scoring the set of features to determine the safety participant risk score; and generating, based on the safety participant risk score, a safety warning flag.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining the safety project score comprises: determining that a frequency, recency, and volume of activity is below a threshold value; and flagging the construction project as low activity that overrides the safety participant risk score and the safety project score.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the presenting the safety risk analysis comprises: rank ordering participants based on safety flags; aggregating positive observations; aggregating accumulations between different hazard categories and safety risk categories based on observations; and representing time period based accumulations of fatal four risk issues of each entity involved in the construction project.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining construction related data comprises: capturing a photo of a construction issue; processing the photo for ingestion; overlaying boxes and a classification label on the photo, wherein metadata comprises the photo, overlaid boxes, and classification label; receiving a rejection of the classification label; based on the rejection, editing the metadata and updating a construction safety model based on machine learning; receiving an acceptance of the classification label; the metadata and updating the construction safety model based on machine learning.
14. A computer-implemented system for determining and providing a safety risk analysis for construction, comprising: (a) a computer having a memory; (b) a processor executing on the computer; (c) the memory storing an application that is executed by the processor, causing the application to: obtain construction related data, wherein the construction related data comprises textual data for a construction project and a visual artifact for the construction project; (ii) identify a construction safety context based on the construction related data; (iii) based on the construction safety context, determine a safety participant risk score that assigns a numerical safety risk participant value to any entity involved in the construction project; (iv) based on the safety risk participant score, determine a safety project score that assigns a risk level on a per-project basis; and (v) present the safety risk analysis, based on the safety participant risk score and safety project score, via a graphical user interface.
15. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the construction related data comprises: the textual data comprising a textual description based on user input; the visual artifact comprising a photograph of safety observations on a construction site; an incident tracking report; automatically generated issues that are automatically generated based on construction work on the construction site; and metadata comprising user generated categorizations.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application: based on the construction related data, utilizes a trained neural network model to generate neural word embeddings in the construction safety context; based on the generated neural word embeddings, identifies a similarity between different blobs of text in the construction safety context; based on the similarity, measures hazard frequency and hazard recency; constructs a safety risk model based on the hazard frequency and recency; and utilizes the safety risk model to determine the safety participant risk score and the safety project score.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application identifies the construction safety context by: determining that indicators in the textual data points to a potential safety risk associated with a fatal four risk category; and identifying the construction safety context as a high safety risk category.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application identifies the construction safety context by: utilizing a set of rules and prediction models to determine that the textual data is an indicator of context relating to a housekeeping issue, wherein housekeeping issues are indicative of a safety hazard; and tracking and providing a recency and frequency of housekeeping behavior to an end user.
19. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application identifies the construction safety context by: utilizing a set of rules and prediction models to determine that the textual data is an indicator of context relating to a potential safety risk or hazard within one or more different safety classes; and labeling a safety issue as a potential safety risk or hazard based on the determination.
20. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application identifies the construction safety context by: utilizing a set of rules and artificial intelligence prediction models to identify, in the visual artifact, an object and an activity; utilizing the set of rules and artificial intelligence prediction models to determine that the object and the activity are indicators of a context relating to a potential safety risk within one or more different safety classes; and labeling a safety issue as a potential safety hazard based on the indicators.
21. The computer-implemented system of claim 20, wherein the application labels the safety issue by: corroborating the indicators with the textual data.
22. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application identifies the construction safety context by: extracting, from the textual data, textual features; modeling, using machine learning classifiers, the textual features; and utilizing the modeling to determine whether a content and context of the textual data reflects a positive or negative sentiment, wherein the positive or negative sentiment affects the safety participant risk score.
23. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application determines the safety participant risk score by: utilizing a risk assessment model to generate a set of features, wherein the set of features comprise positive observations, hazard identification, and safety risk identification; scoring the set of features to determine the safety participant risk score; and generating, based on the safety participant risk score, a safety warning flag.
24. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application determines the safety project score by: determining that a frequency, recency, and volume of activity is below a threshold value; and flagging the construction project as low activity that overrides the safety participant risk score and the safety project score.
25. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application presents the safety risk analysis by: rank ordering participants based on safety flags; aggregating positive observations; aggregating accumulations between different hazard categories and safety risk categories based on observations; and representing time period based accumulations of fatal four risk issues of each entity involved in the construction project.
26. The computer-implemented system of claim 14, wherein the application obtains construction related data by: capturing a photo of a construction issue; processing the photo for ingestion; overlaying boxes and a classification label on the photo, wherein metadata comprises the photo, overlaid boxes, and classification label; receiving a rejection of the classification label; based on the rejection, editing the metadata and updating a construction safety model based on machine learning; receiving an acceptance of the classification label; the metadata and updating the construction safety model based on machine learning.
</claims>
</document>
