<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,G06F16/957,G06F3/0482
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSTRATEGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZIRAKNEJAD, SIAMAK
JIA, QUAN
LANG, TIMOTHY
ABHYANKAR, SAURABH
XU, JIAO
LI, BOYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516755
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC CONTEXTUAL LIBRARY
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs stored on a computer storage medium, for providing a dynamic contextual library. In some implementations, an interactive element is provided for display in a user interface. Context data that indicates a context of one or more computers is generated. Document data indicating a subset of documents from a document collection associated with a user is obtained, with the subset of documents being selected from the document collection based on the context data. After obtaining the data indicating the subset of documents, data indicating user interaction with the interactive element is received. Data identifying the subset of documents for display is provided in response to receiving the data indicating user interaction with the interactive element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: providing, by a one or more computing devices, an interactive element for display in a user interface of the one or more computing devices; generating, by the one or more computing devices, context data that indicates a context of the one or more computing devices; obtaining, by the one or more computing devices, document data indicating a subset of documents from a document collection associated with a user of the one or more computing devices, the subset of documents being selected from the document collection based on the context data that indicates the context of the client device; after obtaining the data indicating the subset of documents, receiving, by the one or more computing devices, data indicating user interaction with the interactive element; and in response to receiving the data indicating user interaction with the interactive element, providing, by the one or more computing devices, data identifying the subset of documents for display.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interface is a user interface of an application running on the one or more computing devices, wherein the interactive element is provided by a third-party extension module for the application.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the application is a web browser, and wherein the context data comprises a uniform resource locator (URL) for a resource displayed in the web browser.
4. The method of claim 3, comprising detecting, by the extension module, that the web browser changed from presenting a first document with a first URL to presenting a second document with a second URL; wherein generating the context data and obtaining the data indicating a subset of documents are performed in response to detecting that the web browser changed from presenting the first document with the first URL to presenting the second document with the second URL.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the data identifying the subset of documents for display comprises displaying an information panel overlay on the user interface, the information panel overlay identifying the documents subset of documents and including one or more interactive elements configured to open the one or more documents subset of documents in response to user interaction.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising, after providing the interactive control for display, repeating a series of operations that includes: detecting a change in the context of the one or more computing devices; generating updated context data indicating the changed context of the one or more computing devices; and obtaining, based on the updated context data, updated document data indicating an updated subset of documents selected from the document collection.
7. The method of claim 1, comprising determining an identifier for the user, wherein the document collection is a personalized document collection that corresponds to the user and has a predetermined set of documents.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents from the document collection associated with the user comprises: providing the context data to a server system over a communication network; and receiving the document data from the server system over the communication network in response to providing the context data.
9. The method of claim 8, comprising: in response to providing the context data, receiving document content for at least a particular document in the subset of documents; caching the document content at the one or more computing devices; after providing the data identifying the subset of documents for display, receiving data indicating interaction with an interface element for the particular document; and in response to receiving the data indicating interaction with the interface element for the particular document, using the cached document content to display a representation of the particular document.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents from the document collection associated with the user comprises selecting, by the one or more computing devices, a subset of the documents using an index of the documents in the document collection stored by the one or more computing devices.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interface is a user interface of a web browser, and the web browser displays a resource corresponding to a uniform resource locator (URL); wherein obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents from the document collection associated with the user comprises obtaining data indicating a set of documents that are not hosted in the same Internet domain as the URL but have a pre-determined association with at least a portion of the URL.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents from the document collection associated with the user comprises obtaining data indicating documents selected based on at least one of: output of one or more machine learning models generated in response to receiving the context data as input; previous document accesses by the user or other users; determining that one or more terms in the user interface are included in one or more documents in the document collection; or determining that the user interface is associated with a particular topic and that one or more documents in the document collection are associated with the particular topic.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the context data indicates at least one of: an identifier for a document presented in the user interface; an identifier for an application running on the one or more computing devices; text from the user interface; a geographic location of the one or more computing devices; or data identifying one or more devices or user within a threshold level of proximity of the one or more computing devices.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the context data comprises generating data indicating that document content of a document displayed in the user interface comprises one or more keywords from a predetermined set of keywords; wherein obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents from the document collection associated with the user comprises obtaining, based on the context data, data indicating a subset of documents, from the document collection, that include or are associated with the one or more keywords included in the user interface.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the interactive element for display comprises displaying an interactive element that is configured to cause the user interface to display, in response to a single interaction, a user interface panel identifying one or more documents determined to be relevant to the current context of the one or more computing devices; wherein the subset of documents from the document collection is selected based on the context data and is based on neither a search query nor filter criteria entered by the user to the user interface; wherein the user interaction with the interactive element comprises a single click, tap, or swipe on the interactive element; and wherein providing the data identifying the subset of documents for display comprises causing a user interface panel to appear that includes an interactive element configured to cause a particular document in the subset of documents to be displayed in response to user interaction with the interactive element in the user interface panel.
16. The method of claim 1, comprising setting an appearance of the user interface element to indicate that one or more documents are available in response to obtaining the document data indicating the subset of documents.
17. A system comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: providing an interactive element for display in a user interface; generating context data that indicates a context of the one or more computers; obtaining document data indicating a subset of documents from a document collection associated with a user, the subset of documents being selected from the document collection based on the context data; after obtaining the data indicating the subset of documents, receiving data indicating user interaction with the interactive element; and in response to receiving the data indicating user interaction with the interactive element, providing data identifying the subset of documents for display.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the user interface is a user interface of an application, wherein the interactive element is provided by a third-party extension module for the application.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein providing the data identifying the subset of documents for display comprises displaying an information panel overlay on the user interface, the information panel overlay identifying the documents subset of documents and including one or more interactive elements configured to open the one or more documents subset of documents in response to user interaction.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: providing an interactive element for display in a user interface; generating context data that indicates a context of the one or more computers; obtaining document data indicating a subset of documents from a document collection associated with a user, the subset of documents being selected from the document collection based on the context data; after obtaining the data indicating the subset of documents, receiving data indicating user interaction with the interactive element; and in response to receiving the data indicating user interaction with the interactive element, providing data identifying the subset of documents for display.
</claims>
</document>
