<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, YU-CHUN
CHENG, CHING-WEI
LIU, CHIH-HSIUNG
HSIEH, TSAI-HSUAN
HSIEH, HSIN-YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69583750
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT AND INTERACTIVE KNOWLEDGE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Enhancing a data query is provided. A knowledge base is searched for information corresponding to the data query. It is determined whether a query result is greater than a query result threshold level of information for the data query based on an identified query intent and keywords of the data query. In response to determining that the query result is not greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query, a set of questions is sent to a personal digital agent of a client device that sent the data query for additional information based on the identified query intent and keywords. Analytic concepts answering the set of questions are received from analytic modules of the personal digital agent that are based on IoT-based personal data corresponding to a user of the client device. The data query is enhanced using the analytic concepts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for enhancing a data query, the computer-implemented method comprising: searching, by a computer, a knowledge base for information corresponding to the data query; determining, by the computer, whether a query result is greater than a query result threshold level of information for the data query based on an identified query intent and keywords of the data query; responsive to the computer determining that the query result is not greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords, sending, by the computer, a set of questions to a personal digital agent of a client device that sent the data query for additional information based on the identified query intent and keywords; receiving, by the computer, analytic concepts answering the set of questions from analytic modules of the personal digital agent that are based on IoT-based personal data corresponding to a user of the client device; and enhancing, by the computer, the data query using the analytic concepts answering the set of questions to form an enhanced data query.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: searching, by the computer, the knowledge base for information corresponding to the enhanced data query; and generating, by the computer, an enhanced query result based on the information corresponding to the enhanced data query.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, by the computer, the data query via a network from the client device corresponding to the user; and performing, by the computer, an analysis of the data query using a query intention classification component of the computer to identify a query intent and keywords corresponding to the data query.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: responsive to the computer determining that the query result is greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords, sending, by the computer, the query result to the client device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein in response to the personal digital agent of the client device receiving the set of questions from the computer, the personal digital agent retrieves the IoT-based personal data corresponding to the user of the client device from an IoT event database based on the identified query intent and keywords of the data query, performs an analysis of the IoT-based personal data corresponding to the user using a set of analytic modules, and determines whether the IoT-based personal data contains the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein in response to the personal digital agent determining that the IoT-based personal data does not contain the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis, the personal digital agent outputs the set of questions to the user on a display, receives the additional information corresponding to the set of questions via user input, and provides the additional information corresponding to the set of questions contained in the user input to the set of analytic modules of the personal digital agent.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein in response to the personal digital agent determining that the IoT-based personal data does contain the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis, the personal digital agent generates the analytic concepts answering the set of questions using the set of analytic modules of the personal digital agent based on the additional information contained in one of the IoT-based personal data or the user input and sends the analytic concepts answering the set of questions to the computer for the computer to enhance the data query.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the IoT-based personal data are generated by a set of IoT devices corresponding to the user of the client device.
9. A computer system for enhancing a data query, the computer system comprising: a bus system; a storage device connected to the bus system, wherein the storage device stores program instructions; and a processor connected to the bus system, wherein the processor executes the program instructions to: search a knowledge base for information corresponding to the data query; determine whether a query result is greater than a query result threshold level of information for the data query based on an identified query intent and keywords of the data query; send a set of questions to a personal digital agent of a client device that sent the data query for additional information based on the identified query intent and keywords in response to determining that the query result is not greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords; receive analytic concepts answering the set of questions from analytic modules of the personal digital agent that are based on IoT-based personal data corresponding to a user of the client device; and enhance the data query using the analytic concepts answering the set of questions to form an enhanced data query.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: search the knowledge base for information corresponding to the enhanced data query; and generate an enhanced query result based on the information corresponding to the enhanced data query.
11. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: receive the data query via a network from the client device corresponding to the user; and perform an analysis of the data query using a query intention classification component of the computer to identify a query intent and keywords corresponding to the data query.
12. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: send the query result to the client device in response to determining that the query result is greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords.
13. A computer program product for enhancing a data query, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: searching, by the computer, a knowledge base for information corresponding to the data query; determining, by the computer, whether a query result is greater than a query result threshold level of information for the data query based on an identified query intent and keywords of the data query; responsive to the computer determining that the query result is not greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords, sending, by the computer, a set of questions to a personal digital agent of a client device that sent the data query for additional information based on the identified query intent and keywords; receiving, by the computer, analytic concepts answering the set of questions from analytic modules of the personal digital agent that are based on IoT-based personal data corresponding to a user of the client device; and enhancing, by the computer, the data query using the analytic concepts answering the set of questions to form an enhanced data query.
14. The computer program product of claim 13 further comprising: searching, by the computer, the knowledge base for information corresponding to the enhanced data query; and generating, by the computer, an enhanced query result based on the information corresponding to the enhanced data query.
15. The computer program product of claim 13 further comprising: receiving, by the computer, the data query via a network from the client device corresponding to the user; and performing, by the computer, an analysis of the data query using a query intention classification component of the computer to identify a query intent and keywords corresponding to the data query.
16. The computer program product of claim 13 further comprising: responsive to the computer determining that the query result is greater than the query result threshold level of information for the data query based on the identified query intent and keywords, sending, by the computer, the query result to the client device.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein in response to the personal digital agent of the client device receiving the set of questions from the computer, the personal digital agent retrieves the IoT-based personal data corresponding to the user of the client device from an IoT event database based on the identified query intent and keywords of the data query, performs an analysis of the IoT-based personal data corresponding to the user using a set of analytic modules, and determines whether the IoT-based personal data contains the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein in response to the personal digital agent determining that the IoT-based personal data does not contain the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis, the personal digital agent outputs the set of questions to the user on a display, receives the additional information corresponding to the set of questions via user input, and provides the additional information corresponding to the set of questions contained in the user input to the set of analytic modules of the personal digital agent.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein in response to the personal digital agent determining that the IoT-based personal data does contain the additional information corresponding to the set of questions based on the analysis, the personal digital agent generates the analytic concepts answering the set of questions using the set of analytic modules of the personal digital agent based on the additional information contained in one of the IoT-based personal data or the user input and sends the analytic concepts answering the set of questions to the computer for the computer to enhance the data query.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the IoT-based personal data are generated by a set of IoT devices corresponding to the user of the client device.
</claims>
</document>
