<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B10/079,H04B10/25,H04B10/516,H04B10/54,H04B10/564,H04B10/60,H04B10/70,H04J14/08,H04L1/00,H04L27/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HASSAN, AMER AREF
CHEN, WEI-CHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70296087
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Power-based decoding of data received over an optical communication path
</title>

<abstract>
A system for transmitting data over an optical communication path is configured to receive data to be encoded in a bitstream for transmission using an optical communication path and encodes the received data to obtain a bitstream. The system is further configured to determine that the bitstream includes a sequence of consecutive bits, and obtain a power level at which to transmit a portion of the bitstream based on a count of the consecutive bits in the sequence. The system may be configured to selectively activate a light source at a power level according to a modulation scheme to optically transmit the portion of the bitstream at the power level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for receiving data over an optical communication path at a receiving device, the method comprising: determining a first power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a first timeslot based upon a first received photon having a value, the first power level is a threshold power level; determining a second power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a second timeslot following the first timeslot and based upon a second received photon having the value, the second power level not exceeding the threshold power level; creating a first bit sequence of repeating values of the value from the first received photon, a count of the first bit sequence of repeating values determined based on a mapping of the first power level to the count, wherein the count is proportional to the first power level; creating a second bit sequence of repeating values of the value from the second received photon, the second bit sequence comprising a second count of the second bit sequence of repeating values based on the mapping and the second count being proportional to the second power level; combining the first and second bit sequences into a bitstream; and storing the bitstream in a memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first power level comprises applying a detection model to the first received photon, and wherein the detection model includes a Poisson regression model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the detection model is configured to detect a value at a power level above the threshold power level.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the memory is a Random Access Memory (RAM).
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first bit sequence is a binary bit sequence and the repeating values are a binary value of one.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the received photon is received over the optical communication path, the optical communication path comprising a fiber optic.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the mapping comprises an increase in power level that is non-linear with increases in count.
8. A system for receiving data over an optical communication path at a receiving device, the system comprising: a hardware processor; and a computer-readable storage device having computer-executable instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the hardware processor, configure the system to: determine a first power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a first timeslot based upon a first received photon having a value, the first power level is a threshold power level; determine a second power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a second timeslot following the first timeslot and based upon a second received photon having the value, the second power level not exceeding the threshold power level; create a first bit sequence of repeating values of the first value from the first received photon, a count of the first bit sequence of repeating values determined based on a mapping of the first power level to the count, wherein the count is proportional to the first power level; create a second bit sequence of repeating values of the value from the second received photon, the second bit sequence comprising a second count of the second bit sequence of repeating values based on the mapping and the second count being proportional to the second power level; combine the first and second bit sequences into a bitstream; and store the bitstream in a memory.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the first power level comprises applying a detection model to the first received photon, and wherein the detection model includes a Poisson regression model.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the detection model is configured to detect a value at a power level above the threshold power level.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the memory is a Random Access Memory (RAM).
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the first bit sequence is a binary bit sequence and the repeating values are a binary value of one.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the received photon is received over the optical communication path, the optical communication path comprising a fiber optic.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the mapping comprises an increase in power level that is non-linear with increases in count.
15. At least one non-transitory machine-readable medium including instructions for receiving data over an optical communication path at a receiving device, which when executed by a hardware processor, cause the hardware processor to: determine a first power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a first timeslot based upon a first received photon having a value, the first power level is a threshold power level; determine a second power level transmitted by a transmitter over the optical communication path at a second timeslot following the first timeslot and based upon a second received photon having the value, the second power level not exceeding the threshold power level; create a first bit sequence of repeating values of the first value from the first received photon, a count of the first bit sequence of repeating values determined based on a mapping of the first power level to the count, wherein the count is proportional to the first power level; create a second bit sequence of repeating values of the value from the second received photon, the second bit sequence comprising a second count of the second bit sequence of repeating values based on the mapping and the second count being proportional to the second power level; combine the first and second bit sequences into a bitstream; and store the bitstream in a memory.
16. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining the first power level comprises applying a detection model to the first received photon, and wherein the detection model includes a Poisson regression model.
17. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the detection model is configured to detect a value at a power level above the threshold power level.
18. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the memory is a Random Access Memory (RAM).
19. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first bit sequence is a binary bit sequence and the repeating values are a binary value of one.
20. The at least one machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the received photon is received over the optical communication path, the optical communication path comprising a fiber optic.
</claims>
</document>
