<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/041,G06F3/042
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAPT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASPERT, NICOLAS
DRUMM OWEN
KOLUNDZIJA, MIHAILO
PIOT, JULIEN
O'Cleirigh, Niall
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70775430
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNWANTED TOUCH MANAGEMENT IN TOUCH-SENSITIVE DEVICES
</title>

<abstract>
An optical touch-sensitive device is able to determine the locations of multiple simultaneous touch events on a surface. The optical touch-sensitive device includes multiple emitters and detectors. Each emitter produces optical beams which are received by the detectors. Touch events on the surface disturb the optical beams received by the detectors. Responsive to a touch event, the disturbed beams are identified and evaluated. Beams disturbed by two or more touches may be ignored. Alternatively, a beam response may be adjusted for a given touch event based on an estimated contribution of another touch event that also disturbs the beam. Additionally, touch events may be characterized as contamination touch events based on one or more past touch events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting touch events on or near a surface, the surface having one or more emitters and one or more detectors, the emitters producing optical beams that propagate along the surface and are received by the detectors, wherein touch events disturb the optical beams, the method comprising: measuring one or more beam responses; estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses; identifying a shared beam of the one or more beam responses, wherein the shared beam is associated with the first touch event and the additional touch event; compensating the one or more beam responses based on identification of the shared beam; and determining an updated location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam responses.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing the beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing a portion of a beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam further comprises: determining a contribution of the additional touch event to the beam response of the shared beam, wherein the removed portion of the beam response of the shared beam is the contribution of the additional touch event.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: referencing locations of touch events in previous frames; determining the location of the additional touch event is within a threshold distance of a location of a touch event in a previous frame; and classifying the additional touch event as a virtual touch caused by contamination on the screen.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses comprises: determining an activity map based on the one or more beam responses, the activity map representing touch events on or near the surface; and determining the estimated location of the first touch event and the estimated location of the additional touch event based on the activity map.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein updating the location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam response comprises: re-determining the activity map based on the compensated one or more beam responses; and determining the updated location of the first touch event based on the re-determined activity map.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more beam responses are measured for a current frame and are measured relative to a baseline beam response, wherein the baseline beam response is based on one or more beam responses measured for a past frame.
9. A system comprising: a surface; one or more emitters and one or more detectors, the emitters configured to emit optical beams, the optical beams propagate along the surface and are received by the detectors, wherein touch events disturb the optical beams; one or more processors; a computer readable storage medium comprising executable computer program code, the computer program code when executed causing the one or more processors to perform operations including: measuring one or more beam responses; estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses; identifying a shared beam of the one or more beam responses, wherein the shared beam is associated with the first touch event and the additional touch event; compensating the one or more beam responses based on identification of the shared beam; and determining an updated location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam responses.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing the beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing a portion of a beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam further comprises: determining a contribution of the additional touch event to the beam response of the shared beam, wherein the removed portion of the beam response of the shared beam is the contribution of the additional touch event.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein: estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses comprises: determining an activity map based on the one or more beam responses, the activity map representing touch events on or near the surface; and determining the estimated location of the first touch event and the estimated location of the additional touch event based on the activity map; and updating the location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam response comprises: re-determining the activity map based on the compensated one or more beam responses; and determining the updated location of the first touch event based on the re-determined activity map.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more beam responses are measured for a current frame and are measured relative to a baseline beam response, wherein the baseline beam response is based on one or more beam responses measured for a past frame.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing executable computer program code that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: measuring one or more beam responses; estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses; identifying a shared beam of the one or more beam responses, wherein the shared beam is associated with the first touch event and the additional touch event; compensating the one or more beam responses based on identification of the shared beam; and determining an updated location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam responses.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing the beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam comprises: removing a portion of a beam response of the shared beam from the one or more beam responses.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein compensating the one or more beam responses based on the identification of the shared beam further comprises: determining a contribution of the additional touch event to the beam response of the shared beam, wherein the removed portion of the beam response of the shared beam is the contribution of the additional touch event.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein: estimating a location of a first touch event and a location of an additional touch event based on the one or more beam responses comprises: determining an activity map based on the one or more beam responses, the activity map representing touch events on or near the surface; and determining the estimated location of the first touch event and the estimated location of the additional touch event based on the activity map; and updating the location of the first touch event based on the compensated one or more beam response comprises: re-determining the activity map based on the compensated one or more beam responses; and determining the updated location of the first touch event based on the re-determined activity map.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein the one or more beam responses are measured for a current frame and are measured relative to a baseline beam response, wherein the baseline beam response is based on one or more beam responses measured for a past frame.
</claims>
</document>
