<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/957,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRIPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HABRAKEN, JEROEN ANTONIUS EGIDIUS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71946221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC CHECKOUT PAGE OPTIMIZATION USING MACHINE-LEARNED MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
In an example embodiment, a method for processing payments made via an electronic payment processing system is provided. An example method includes obtaining training data from a data source. The training data relates to prior purchases made via the electronic payment processing system, wherein the data source includes, in some examples, only a checkout page in a purchase transaction funnel. Features associated with a negative user action in relation to prior purchases are identified. A machine learning algorithm produces a dynamic transactional behavior score indicative of a probability that a purchase will invoke a negative user action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing payments made via an electronic payment processing system, the method comprising obtaining training data from a data source, the training data relating to prior purchases made via the electronic payment processing system, the data source including a checkout page in a purchase transaction funnel; extracting one or more features from the training data relating to the prior purchases, the one or more features associated with a negative user action invoked in relation to at least one of the prior purchases; for each of a plurality of real-time purchases, feeding the one or more extracted features into a transactional behavior model, the transactional behavior model trained via a machine learning algorithm to produce a transactional behavior score indicative of a probability that a first real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the first real-time purchase; using one or more transactional behavior scores for the plurality of real-time purchases to predict respective occurrences of invoked negative user action; and based on the predicted occurrences, dynamically optimizing the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel to reduce a probability that a second real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the second real-time purchase.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data source is confined to data contained in or associated with the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the invoked negative user action includes one or more of a refund request, a chargeback request, and a return request.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising confining the training data to information extracted from the checkout page and associated with the invoked negative user action.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the training data includes a data structure, the data structure including a first user interaction section and a second checkout page data section.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first user interaction section includes data sourced exclusively from the checkout page and relating to one or more of: a time period between a loading of the checkout page and a taking or completion of a payment action; a number of times or frequency a customer viewed the checkout page before taking or completing a payment action; a number of typos or other mis-entries corrected prior to taking or completing a payment action; a detection of an omitted field completed prior to taking or completing a payment action; a number, type, or frequency of a mouse movement; a detection of a payment denial; a detection of a decline of a payment instrument; a detection of a substitution of the payment instrument; an IP address associated with a prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase; and a local user time of the prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the second checkout page data section includes data sourced exclusively from the checkout page and relating to one or more of: a detection of a first-time customer; a detection of a repeat customer; a time period of an interval between a prior purchase and the first real-time or second real-time purchase, assessed relative to a customer average for the same interval; a user cart size associated with the prior purchase and the first real-time or second real-time purchase, assessed relative to an average user cart size for a respective purchase; a locality or default currency of a payment instrument assessed relative to a locality or currency of a merchant store or website; user order or shipping API data; a selection of a shipping service or shipping rate; a degree of embedded metadata associated with a user action; a detection of a refund; a detection of a support ticket or request; and user review data.
8. A system for processing electronic payments, the system comprising a network; one or more hardware processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor among the processors, cause the scheduling system to perform operations comprising at least: obtaining training data from a data source, the training data relating to prior purchases made via the electronic payment processing system, the data source including a checkout page in a purchase transaction funnel; extracting one or more features from the training data relating to the prior purchases, the one or more features associated with a negative user action invoked in relation to at least one of the prior purchases; for each of a plurality of real-time purchases, feeding the one or more extracted features into a transactional behavior model, the transactional behavior model trained via a machine learning algorithm to produce a transactional behavior score indicative of a probability that a first real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the first real-time purchase; using one or more transactional behavior scores for the plurality of real-time purchases to predict respective occurrences of invoked negative user action; and based on the predicted occurrences, dynamically optimizing the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel to reduce a probability that a second real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the second real-time purchase.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the data source is confined to data contained in or associated with the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the invoked negative user action includes one or more of a refund request, a chargeback request, and a return request.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise confining the training data to information extracted from the checkout page and associated with the invoked negative user action.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the training data includes a data structure, the data structure including a first user interaction section and a second checkout page data section.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the first user interaction section includes data sourced exclusively from the checkout page and relating to one or more of: a time period between a loading of the checkout page and a taking or completion of a payment action; a number of times or frequency a customer viewed the checkout page before taking or completing a payment action; a number of typos or other mis-entries corrected prior to taking or completing a payment action; a detection of an omitted field completed prior to taking or completing a payment action; a number, type, or frequency of a mouse movement; a detection of a payment denial; a detection of a decline of a payment instrument; a detection of a substitution of the payment instrument; an IP address associated with a prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase; and a local user time of the prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the second checkout page data section includes data sourced exclusively from the checkout page and relating to one or more of: a detection of a first-time customer; a detection of a repeat customer; a time period of an interval between a prior purchase and the first real-time or second real-time purchase, assessed relative to a customer average for the same interval; a user cart size associated with the prior purchase and the first real-time or second real-time purchase, assessed relative to an average user cart size for a respective purchase; a locality or default currency of a payment instrument assessed relative to a locality or currency of a merchant store or website; user order or shipping API data; a selection of a shipping service or shipping rate; a degree of embedded metadata associated with a user action; a detection of a refund; a detection of a support ticket or request; and user review data.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising instructions which, when read by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations for processing payments made via an electronic payment processing system, the operations comprising at least: obtaining training data from a data source, the training data relating to prior purchases made via the electronic payment processing system, the data source including a checkout page in a purchase transaction funnel; extracting one or more features from the training data relating to the prior purchases, the one or more features associated with a negative user action invoked in relation to at least one of the prior purchases; for each of a plurality of real-time purchases, feeding the one or more extracted features into a transactional behavior model, the transactional behavior model trained via a machine learning algorithm to produce a transactional behavior score indicative of a probability that a first real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the first real-time purchase; using one or more transactional behavior scores for the plurality of real-time purchases to predict respective occurrences of invoked negative user action; and based on the predicted occurrences, dynamically optimizing the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel to reduce a probability that a second real-time purchase among the plurality of real-time purchases will invoke a negative user action taken in relation to the second real-time purchase.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the data source is confined to data contained in or associated with the checkout page in the purchase transaction funnel.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein the invoked negative user action includes one or more of a refund request, a chargeback request, and a return request.
18. The medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise confining the training data to information extracted from the checkout page and associated with the invoked negative user action.
19. The medium of claim 15, wherein the training data includes a data structure, the data structure including a first user interaction section and a second checkout page data section.
20. The medium of claim 19, wherein the first user interaction section includes data sourced exclusively from the checkout page and relating to one or more of: a time period between a loading of the checkout page and a taking or completion of a payment action; a number of times or frequency a customer viewed the checkout page before taking or completing a payment action; a number of typos or other mis-entries corrected prior to taking or completing a payment action; a detection of an omitted field completed prior to taking or completing a payment action; a number, type, or frequency of a mouse movement; a detection of a payment denial; a detection of a decline of a payment instrument; a detection of a substitution of the payment instrument; an IP address associated with a prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase; and a local user time of the prior purchase, the first real-time purchase, or the second real-time purchase.
</claims>
</document>
