<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F16/178,G06F16/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRAN, DZUNG D
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60787553
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE SYNCHING
</title>

<abstract>
Various systems and methods for implementing adaptive synching are provided herein. A synchronization system comprises a processor; and a memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to implement: a file synchronization controller to receive an indication from a client device that the client device wants to synchronize files with a file server; a policy manager to: obtain a server-side policy associated with the file server; and determine whether the file server is in a state compliant with the server-side policy; wherein the file synchronization controller is to initiate synchronization between the client device and the file server when the file server is in the state compliant with the server-side policy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-25. (canceled)
26. A synchronization system for implementing adaptive synching, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to implement: a file synchronization controller to receive an indication from a client device that the client device wants to synchronize files with a file server; a policy manager to: obtain a server-side policy associated with the file server; and determine whether the file server is in a state compliant with the server-side policy; wherein the file synchronization controller is to initiate synchronization between the client device and the file server when the file server is in the state compliant with the server-side policy.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the indication from the client device includes a sync request message.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the file synchronization controller is to queue the sync request message with other sync request messages received from other client devices in a sync request queue.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein the file synchronization controller is to evaluate the sync request messages in the sync request queue to identify a next sync request to service.
30. The system of claim 26, wherein the indication from the client device includes a client-side policy for controlling sync operations, and state information of the client device.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein the file synchronization controller is to: receive state information from the client device; monitor the client device based on the state information; and create a sync request and queue the sync request when the state information from the client device indicates that the client device is in conformance with the client-side policy.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the file synchronization controller is to evaluate the sync request messages in the sync request queue to identify a next sync request to service.
33. The system of claim 30, wherein the client-side policy is a policy from a group of policies including: initiating a sync operation when the client device is plugged into mains power and connected to a Wi-Fi network, or initiating a sync operation after a certain time of day.
34. The system of claim 26, wherein to obtain the server-side policy, the policy manager is to: query the file server for an up-to-date server-side policy; receive the up-to-date server-side policy; and store the up-to-date server-side policy at the synchronization server.
35. The system of claim 26, wherein the server-side policy is a policy from a group of policies including: allowing a sync operation when there are less than a maximum number of connections, allowing a sync operation when there are fewer than a maximum number of server instances, or allowing a sync operation when there is more than a threshold of available network capacity.
36. The system of claim 26, wherein to initiate synchronization, the file synchronization controller is to transmit a message to a notification platform, the notification platform configured to transmit a notification to the client device to trigger the synchronization from the client device.
37. The system of claim 36, wherein the notification platform comprises a service provided by a third party to the synchronization server.
38. The system of claim 26, wherein to initiate synchronization, the file synchronization controller is to transmit a notification to the client device to trigger the synchronization from the client device directly from the synchronization server.
39. A method for implementing adaptive synching, the method comprising: receiving, at a synchronization server, an indication from a client device that the client device wants to synchronize files with a file server; obtaining a server-side policy associated with the file server; determining whether the file server is in a state compliant with the server-side policy; and initiating synchronization between the client device and the file server when the file server is in the state compliant with the server-side policy.
40. The method of claim 39, wherein the indication from the client device includes a sync request message.
41. The method of claim 39, wherein the indication from the client device includes a client-side policy for controlling sync operations, and state information of the client device.
42. The method of claim 41, further comprising: receiving state information from the client device; monitoring the client device based on the state information; and creating a sync request and queuing the sync request when the state information from the client device indicates that the client device is in conformance with the client-side policy.
43. The method of claim 42, further comprising evaluating the sync request messages in the sync request queue to identify a next sync request to service.
44. The method of claim 41, wherein the client-side policy is a policy from a group of policies including: initiating a sync operation when the client device is plugged into mains power and connected to a Wi-Fi network, or initiating a sync operation after a certain time of day.
45. The method of claim 39, wherein obtaining the server-side policy comprises: querying the file server for an up-to-date server-side policy; receiving the up-to-date server-side policy; and storing the up-to-date server-side policy at the synchronization server.
46. The method of claim 39, wherein initiating synchronization comprises transmitting a message to a notification platform, the notification platform configured to transmit a notification to the client device to trigger the synchronization from the client device.
47. At least one machine-readable medium including instructions for implementing adaptive synching, which when executed by a machine, cause the machine to: receive, at a synchronization server, an indication from a client device that the client device wants to synchronize files with a file server; obtain a server-side policy associated with the file server; determine whether the file server is in a state compliant with the server-side policy; and initiate synchronization between the client device and the file server when the file server is in the state compliant with the server-side policy.
48. The machine-readable medium of claim 47, wherein the indication from the client device includes a client-side policy for controlling sync operations, and state information of the client device, and wherein the instructions further comprise instructions to: receive state information from the client device; monitor the client device based on the state information; and create a sync request and queuing the sync request when the state information from the client device indicates that the client device is in conformance with the client-side policy.
49. The machine-readable medium of claim 47, wherein the instructions to obtain the server-side policy comprise instructions to: query the file server for an up-to-date server-side policy; receive the up-to-date server-side policy; and store the up-to-date server-side policy at the synchronization server.
50. The machine-readable medium of claim 47, wherein the instructions to initiate synchronization comprise instructions to transmit a message to a notification platform, the notification platform configured to transmit a notification to the client device to trigger the synchronization from the client device.
</claims>
</document>
