<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/632,G10L15/22,G16H10/60,G16H40/20,G16H50/20,G16H50/50,G16H70/20,G16H70/60,H04B1/3827
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEMPUS LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
OZERAN, JONATHAN
LEFKOFSKY, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72830853
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COLLABORATIVE ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE METHOD AND SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system of audibly broadcasting responses to a user based on user queries about a specific patient molecular report, the method comprising receiving an audible query from the user to a microphone coupled to a collaboration device, identifying at least one intent associated with the audible query, identifying at least one data operation associated with the at least one intent, associating each of the at least one data operations with a first set of data presented on the molecular report, executing each of the at least one data operations on a second set of data to generate response data, generating an audible response file associated with the response data and providing the audible response file for broadcasting via a speaker coupled to the collaboration device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of audibly broadcasting responses to a user based on user queries about a specific patient's molecular report, the method for use with a collaboration device that includes a processor and a microphone and a speaker linked to the processor, the method comprising: (i) storing molecular reports for a plurality of patients in a system database; (ii) receiving an audible query from the user via the microphone; (iii) identifying at least one intent associated with the audible query; (iv) identifying at least one data operation associated with the at least one intent; (v) accessing the specific patient's molecular report; (vi) executing at least one of the identified at least one data operations on a first set of data included in the specific patient's molecular report to generate a first set of response data; (vii) using the first set of response data to generate an audible response file; and (viii) broadcasting the audible response file via the speaker.
2. The method of claim 1 further including identifying qualifying parameters in the audible query, the step of identifying at least one data operation including identifying the at least one data operation based on both the identified intent and the qualifying parameters.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the qualifying parameters includes a patient identity.
4. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the qualifying parameters includes a patient's disease state.
5. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the qualifying parameters includes a genetic mutation.
6. The method of claim 2 wherein at least one of the qualifying parameters includes a procedure type.
7. The method of claim 1 further including identifying qualifying parameters in the specific patient's molecular report, the step of identifying at least one data operation including identifying the at least one data operation based on both the identified intent and the qualifying parameters.
8. The method of claim 1 further including the step of storing a general knowledge database that includes non-patient specific data about specific topics, wherein the step of identifying at least one data operation associated with the at least one intent includes identifying at least first and second data operations associated with the at least one intent, the first data operation associated with the specific patient's molecular report and the second data operation associated with the general knowledge database.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the second data operation associated with the general knowledge database is executed first to generate second data operation results, the second data operation results are used to define the first data operation and the first data operation associated with the specific patient's molecular report is executed second to generate the first set of response data.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein the first data operation associated with the specific patient's molecular report is executed first to generate first data operation results, the first data operation results are used to define the second data operation and the second data operation associated with the general knowledge database is executed second to generate the first set of response data.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of identifying at least one intent includes determining that the audible query is associated with the specific patient, accessing the specific patient's molecular report, determining the specific patient's cancer state from the molecular report and then selecting an intent from a pool of cancer state related intents.
12. The method of claim 11 further including the step of storing a general knowledge database that includes non-patient specific data about specific topics, the method further including the steps of, upon determining that the audible query is not associated with any specific patient, selecting an intent that is associated with the general knowledge database.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein the collaboration device includes a portable wireless device that includes a wireless transceiver.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the collaboration device is a handheld device.
15. The method of claim 13 wherein the collaboration device includes at least one visual indicator, the processor linked to the visual indicator and controllable to change at least some aspect of the appearance of the visual indicator to indicate different states of the collaboration device.
16. The method of claim 1 wherein the processor is programmed to monitor microphone input to identify a "wake up" phrase, the processor monitoring for the audible query after the wake up phrase is detected.
17. The method of claim 1 wherein a series of audible queries are received via the microphone, the at least one of the identified data operations including identifying a subset of data that is usable with subsequent audio queries to identify intents associated with the subsequent queries.
18. The method of claim 1 further including the steps of, based on at least one audible query received via the microphone and related data in a system database, identifying at least one activity that a collaboration device user may want to perform and initiating the at least one activity.
19. The method of claim 18 wherein the step of initiating the at least one activity includes generating a second audible response file and broadcasting the second audible response file to the user seeking verification that the at least one activity should be performed and monitoring the microphone for an affirmative response and, upon receiving an affirmative response, initiating the at least one activity.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one activity includes periodically capturing health information from electronic health records included in the system database.
21. The method of claim 18 wherein the at least one activity includes checking status of an existing clinical or lab order.
22. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one activity includes ordering a new clinical or lab order.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein the collaboration device is one of a smartphone, a tablet computer, a laptop computer, a desktop computer, or an Amazon Echo.
24. The method of claim 18 wherein the step of initiating the at least one activity includes automatically initiating the at least one activity without any initiating input from the user.
25. The method of claim 1 further including storing and maintaining a general cancer knowledge database, persistently updating the specific patient's molecular report, automatically identifying at least one intent and associated data operation related to the general cancer knowledge database based on the specific patient's molecular report data, persistently executing the associated data operation on the general cancer knowledge database to generate a new set of response data not previously generated and, upon generating a new set of response data, using the new set of response data to generate another audible response file and broadcasting the another audible response file via the speaker.
26. The method of claim 1 also for use with an electronic health records system that maintains health records associated with a plurality of patients including the specific patient, the method further including identifying at least another data operation associated with the at least one intent and executing the another data operation on the specific patient's health record to generate additional response data.
27. The method of claim 26 wherein the step of using the first set of response data to generate an audible response file including using the response data and the additional response data to generate the audible response file.
28. A method of audibly broadcasting responses to a user based on user queries about a specific patient's molecular report, the method for use with a collaboration device that includes a processor and a microphone and a speaker linked to the processor, the method comprising: (i) storing a separate molecular report for each of a plurality of patients in a system database; (ii) storing a general cancer knowledge database that includes non-patient specific data about cancer topics; (iii) receiving an audible query from the user via the microphone; (iv) identifying at least one intent associated with the audible query; (v) identifying at least a first data operation associated with the at least one intent and the specific patient's molecular report; (vi) identifying at least a second data operation associated with the at least one intent and the general cancer knowledge database; (vii) accessing the specific patient's molecular report and the general cancer knowledge database; (viii) executing the at least a first data operation on a first set of data included in the specific patient's molecular report to generate a first set of response data; (ix) executing the at least a second data operation of the general cancer knowledge database to generate a second set of response data; (x) using at least one of the first and second sets of response data to generate an audible response file; and (xi) broadcasting the audible response file via the speaker.
29. A method of audibly broadcasting responses to a user based on user queries about a specific patient's molecular report, the method for use with a collaboration device that includes a processor and a microphone and a speaker linked to the processor, the method comprising: (i) storing molecular reports for a plurality of patients in a system database; (ii) receiving an audible query from the user via the microphone; (iii) determining that the audible query is associated with the specific patient; (iv) accessing the specific patient's molecular report; (v) determining the specific patient's cancer state from the molecular report; (vi) identifying at least one intent from a pool of intents related to the specific patient's cancer state and the audible query; (vii) identifying at least one data operation associated with the at least one intent; (viii) executing at least one of the identified at least one data operations on a first set of data included in the specific patient's molecular report to generate a first set of response data; (ix) using the first set of response data to generate an audible response file; and (x) broadcasting the audible response file via the speaker.
30. A method of audibly broadcasting responses to a user based on user queries about a patient, the method for use with a collaboration device that includes a processor and a microphone and a speaker linked to the processor, the method comprising: (i) storing health records for a plurality of patients in a system database and storing a general cancer knowledge database; (ii) receiving an audible query from the user via the microphone; (iii) identifying a specific patient associated with the audible query; (iv) accessing the health records for the specific patient; (v) identifying cancer related data in the specific patient/s health records; (vi) identifying at least one intent related to the identified cancer related data; (vii) identifying at least one data operation related to the at least one intent; (viii) executing the at least one data operation on the general cancer knowledge database to generate a first set of response data; (ix) using the first set of response data to generate an audible response file; and (x) broadcasting the audible response file via the speaker.
</claims>
</document>
