<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/34,G06N3/08,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BORLICK, MATTHEW G.
ROBISON, MICAH
GUPTA, LOKESH M.
HOPKINS, RICHARD H.
OLSON, JAMES E.
OUBRE, JR., RICHARD P.
AHMED, USMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70327128
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PERFORM PREEMPTIVE IDENTIFICATION AND REDUCTION OF RISK OF FAILURE IN COMPUTATIONAL SYSTEMS BY TRAINING A MACHINE LEARNING MODULE
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning module is trained by receiving inputs comprising attributes of a computing environment, where the attributes affect a likelihood of failure in the computing environment. In response to an event occurring in the computing environment, a risk score that indicates a predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment is generated via forward propagation through a plurality of layers of the machine learning module. A margin of error is calculated based on comparing the generated risk score to an expected risk score, where the expected risk score indicates an expected likelihood of failure in the computing environment corresponding to the event. An adjustment is made of weights of links that interconnect nodes of the plurality of layers via back propagation to reduce the margin of error, to improve the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training a machine learning module, the method comprising: receiving, by the machine learning module executing in a computational device, inputs comprising attributes of a computing environment, wherein the attributes affect a likelihood of failure in the computing environment; in response to an event occurring in the computing environment, generating, via forward propagation through a plurality of layers of the machine learning module, a risk score that indicates a predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment; calculating a margin of error based on comparing the generated risk score to an expected risk score, wherein the expected risk score indicates an expected likelihood of failure in the computing environment corresponding to the event; and adjusting weights of links that interconnect nodes of the plurality of layers via back propagation to reduce the margin of error, to improve the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment.
2. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: improving over a period of time, the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment, by repeatedly adjusting the weights via back propagation, in response to each event of a plurality of events occurring in the computing environment over the period of time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the expected risk score is higher in response to a data loss or data integrity loss in comparison to a loss of access to data for a period of time.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the expected risk score is proportional to a period of time for which there is loss of access to data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein an event causing a performance impact in the computing environment corresponds to a lower expected risk score in comparison to a loss of access to data or a data loss or a data integrity loss in the computing environment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning module is a neural network, wherein the plurality of layers comprises: an input layer that receives the inputs comprising the attributes of the computing environment; one or more hidden layers; and an output layer that outputs a risk score, the method further comprising: assigning, initial weights in the neural network based on estimates; and adjusting the weights in the neural network, during the training, in response to a plurality of customer issues caused by a plurality of events.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein subsequent to an initial phase of training performed in response to occurrence of predetermined number of events in the computing environment, the machine learning module generates an output that comprises a risk score that indicates a likelihood of failure occurring within the computing environment.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the attributes comprise a measure of a firmware or software level of a device in comparison to a minimum or recommended firmware or software level for the device, a measure of whether a device has reached an end of life cycle, a measure of a ratio of faulty replaced drives to total number of drives over a period of time, a measure of a level of redundancy in the computing environment indicated by Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations, a measure of whether critical policy failures have occurred in the computing environment, a measure of whether one or more devices have missed heartbeats, a measure of an age of a device, and a measure of problems identified with a device.
9. A system for training a machine learning module, the system comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, wherein the processor performs operations, the operations comprising: receiving, by the machine learning module executing in the system, inputs comprising attributes of a computing environment, wherein the attributes affect a likelihood of failure in the computing environment; in response to an event occurring in the computing environment, generating, via forward propagation through a plurality of layers of the machine learning module, a risk score that indicates a predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment; calculating a margin of error based on comparing the generated risk score to an expected risk score, wherein the expected risk score indicates an expected likelihood of failure in the computing environment corresponding to the event; and adjusting weights of links that interconnect nodes of the plurality of layers via back propagation to reduce the margin of error, to improve the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment.
10. The system of claim 9, the operations further comprising: improving over a period of time, the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment, by repeatedly adjusting the weights via back propagation, in response to each event of a plurality of events occurring in the computing environment over the period of time.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the expected risk score is higher in response to a data loss or data integrity loss in comparison to a loss of access to data for a period of time.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the expected risk score is proportional to a period of time for which there is loss of access to data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein an event causing a performance impact in the computing environment corresponds to a lower expected risk score in comparison to a loss of access to data or a data loss or a data integrity loss in the computing environment.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the machine learning module is a neural network, wherein the plurality of layers comprises: an input layer that receives the inputs comprising the attributes of the computing environment; one or more hidden layers; and an output layer that outputs a risk score, the operations further comprising: assigning, initial weights in the neural network based on estimates; and adjusting the weights in the neural network, during the training, in response to a plurality of customer issues caused by a plurality of events.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein subsequent to an initial phase of training performed in response to occurrence of predetermined number of events in the computing environment, the machine learning module generates an output that comprises a risk score that indicates a likelihood of failure occurring within the computing environment.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the attributes comprise a measure of a firmware or software level of a device in comparison to a minimum or recommended firmware or software level for the device, a measure of whether a device has reached an end of life cycle, a measure of a ratio of faulty replaced drives to total number of drives over a period of time, a measure of a level of redundancy in the computing environment indicated by Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations, a measure of whether critical policy failures have occurred in the computing environment, a measure of whether one or more devices have missed heartbeats, a measure of an age of a device, and a measure of problems identified with a device.
17. A computer program product for training a machine learning module, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, the computer readable program code configured to perform operations in a computational device, the operations comprising: receiving, by the machine learning module executing in the computational device, inputs comprising attributes of a computing environment, wherein the attributes affect a likelihood of failure in the computing environment; in response to an event occurring in the computing environment, generating, via forward propagation through a plurality of layers of the machine learning module, a risk score that indicates a predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment; calculating a margin of error based on comparing the generated risk score to an expected risk score, wherein the expected risk score indicates an expected likelihood of failure in the computing environment corresponding to the event; and adjusting weights of links that interconnect nodes of the plurality of layers via back propagation to reduce the margin of error, to improve the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, the operations further comprising: improving over a period of time, the predicted likelihood of failure in the computing environment, by repeatedly adjusting the weights via back propagation, in response to each event of a plurality of events occurring in the computing environment over the period of time.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the expected risk score is higher in response to a data loss or data integrity loss in comparison to a loss of access to data for a period of time.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the expected risk score is proportional to a period of time for which there is loss of access to data.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein an event causing a performance impact in the computing environment corresponds to a lower expected risk score in comparison to a loss of access to data or a data loss or a data integrity loss in the computing environment.
22. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the machine learning module is a neural network, wherein the plurality of layers comprises: an input layer that receives the inputs comprising the attributes of the computing environment; one or more hidden layers; and an output layer that outputs a risk score, the operations further comprising: assigning, initial weights in the neural network based on estimates; and adjusting the weights in the neural network, during the training, in response to a plurality of customer issues caused by a plurality of events.
23. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein subsequent to an initial phase of training performed in response to occurrence of predetermined number of events in the computing environment, the machine learning module generates an output that comprises a risk score that indicates a likelihood of failure occurring within the computing environment.
24. The computer program product of claim 23, wherein the attributes comprise a measure of a firmware or software level of a device in comparison to a minimum or recommended firmware or software level for the device, a measure of whether a device has reached an end of life cycle, a measure of a ratio of faulty replaced drives to total number of drives over a period of time, a measure of a level of redundancy in the computing environment indicated by Redundant Array of Independent Disks (RAID) configurations, a measure of whether critical policy failures have occurred in the computing environment, a measure of whether one or more devices have missed heartbeats, a measure of an age of a device, and a measure of problems identified with a device.
</claims>
</document>
