<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VELUSAMY, SUDHA
VARNA, RAHUL
Kini, Ravi Prasad Mohan
Parihar, Rishubh
Hyun, Daeyoung
Rege, Aniket Devdatta
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72608351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR PROCESSING FACIAL IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes determining information indicative of at least one facial characteristic associated with at least one face in the source image, processing the source image using a filter based on the determined information, performing wavelet decomposition on each of the filtered image and the source image, determining weightage factors associated with the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image, based on the determined information, obtaining a wavelet image to generate a texture restored image from the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image based on the weightage factors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating a texture restored image based on a source image, the method comprising: determining information indicative of at least one facial characteristic associated with at least one face in the source image; processing the source image using a filter based on the determined information, to obtain a filtered image; performing wavelet decomposition on each of the filtered image and the source image; determining weightage factors associated with the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image, based on the determined information; and obtaining a wavelet image to generate the texture restored image from the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image based on the weightage factors.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating an enhanced image by applying image-processing to the texture restored image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one facial characteristic includes at least one from among a level of a skin texture, an amount of blemishes, an average size of blemishes, an age associated with the at least one face, and a gender associated with the at least one face.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing the source image using the filter further comprises: obtaining, from the source image, a region of interest (ROI) indicative of the at least one face in the source image; determining at least one skin region and at least one other region that are associated with the ROI; and generating a masked image based on the at least one skin region and the at least one other region.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining at least one area associated with the ROI, the at least one area being indicative of at least one blemish on the at least one face; generating a blemish-removed image based on the at least one area; and processing the source image using the filter based on the masked image, the blemish-removed image, and the at least one facial characteristic.
6. The method of in claim 1, wherein the performing the wavelet decomposition further comprises: determining a number of levels of decomposition to be performed on each of the filtered image and the source image, respectively, based on the at least one facial characteristic; performing the wavelet decomposition for the determined number of levels on the source image to generate a first wavelet decomposed image; and performing the wavelet decomposition for the determined number of levels on the filtered image to generate a second wavelet decomposed image.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the weightage factors further comprises: determining a weightage factor among the weightage factors that corresponds to each wavelet band at multiple levels of each of a first wavelet decomposed image and a second wavelet decomposed image, respectively, based on the at least one facial characteristic, wherein the first wavelet decomposed image is generated by the wavelet decomposition of the source image and the second wavelet decomposed image is generated by the wavelet decomposition of the filtered image.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: selecting a first set of wavelet bands among multiple bands of the first wavelet decomposed image based on the weightage factor corresponding to each wavelet band of the first wavelet decomposed image; selecting a second set of wavelet bands among multiple bands of the second wavelet decomposed image based on the weightage factor corresponding to each wavelet band of the second wavelet decomposed image; and combining the first set of wavelet bands and the second set of wavelet bands to generate the wavelet image.
9. An electronic device for generating a texture restored image based on a source image, the electronic device comprising: a processor configured to: determine information indicative of at least one facial characteristic associated with at least one face in the source image; process the source image using a filter based on the determined information, to obtain a filtered image; perform wavelet decomposition on each of the filtered image and the source image, respectively; determine weightage factors associated with the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image, based on the determined information; and obtain a wavelet image to generate the texture restored image from the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image based on the weightage factors.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to generate an enhanced image by applying image-processing to the texture restored image.
11. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the at least one facial characteristic includes at least one from among a level of a skin texture, an amount of blemishes, an average size of blemishes, an age associated with the at least one face, and a gender associated with the at least one face.
12. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein, in the processing the source image using the filter, the processor is further configured to: obtain, from the source image, a region of interest (ROI) indicative of the at least one face in the source image; determine at least one skin region and at least one other region that are associated with the ROI; and generate a masked image based on the at least one skin region and the at least one other region.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine at least one area associated with the ROI, the at least one area being indicative of at least one blemish on the at least one face; generate a blemish-removed image based on the at least one area; and process the source image using the filter based on the masked image, the blemish-removed image, and the at least one facial characteristic.
14. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein, in performing the wavelet decomposition, the processor is further configured to: determine a number of levels of decomposition to be performed on each of the filtered image and the source image, respectively, based on the at least one facial characteristic; perform the wavelet decomposition for the determined number of levels on the source image to generate a first wavelet decomposed image; and perform the wavelet decomposition for the determined number of levels on the filtered image to generate a second wavelet decomposed image.
15. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a weightage factor among the weightage factors that corresponds to each wavelet band at multiple levels of each of a first wavelet decomposed image and a second wavelet decomposed image based on the at least one facial characteristic, wherein the first wavelet decomposed image is generated by the wavelet decomposition of the source image and the second wavelet decomposed image is generated by the wavelet decomposition of the filtered image.
16. The electronic device of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: select a first set of wavelet bands among multiple bands of the first wavelet decomposed image based on the weightage factor corresponding to each wavelet band of the first wavelet decomposed image; select a second set of wavelet bands among multiple bands of the second wavelet decomposed image based on the weightage factor corresponding to each wavelet band of the second wavelet decomposed image; and combine the first set of wavelet bands and the second set of wavelet bands to generate the wavelet image.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing a computer program for operating an electronic device including a memory and a processor, the computer program comprising computer-readable program that, when executed by the processor, causes the electronic device to: determine information indicative of at least one facial characteristic associated with at least one face in a source image; process the source image using a filter based on the determined information, to obtain a filtered image; perform wavelet decomposition on each of the filtered image and the source image, respectively; determine weightage factors associated with the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image, based on the determined information; and obtain a wavelet image to generate a texture restored image from the wavelet decomposition of each of the filtered image and the source image based on the weightage factors.
</claims>
</document>
