<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/22,G10L15/30,H04R3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIN, SEUNGYOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68070964
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE DEVICE FOR PROVIDING NOTIFICATION TO USER USING AUDIO DATA AND METHOD FOR THE SAME
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides an artificial intelligence device for providing notification to a user using audio data, the artificial intelligence device including: a memory configured to store a trigger sound that should be notified to a user and information about notification corresponding to the trigger sound; a microphone configured to receive audio data; a processor configured to change a volume gain of the microphone on the basis of a noise level of the audio data received from the microphone, to determine whether the audio data received from the microphone correspond to a trigger sound that should be notified to the user, and to extract notification corresponding to the determined trigger sound; and an output unit configured to output the extracted notification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An artificial intelligence device for providing a notification to a user using audio data, the artificial intelligence device comprising: a memory configured to store a trigger sound for notifying a user and information about a notification corresponding to the trigger sound; at least one microphone configured to receive audio data; a processor configured to: change a volume gain of the microphone based on a noise level of the audio data received from the at least one microphone, and in response to the audio data received from the at least one microphone corresponding to the trigger sound, extract the notification corresponding to the trigger sound; and an outputter configured to output the notification.
2. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: in response to the noise level of the audio data received from the at least one microphone being less than or equal to a predetermined noise level, increase the volume gain of the microphone.
3. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the outputter outputs the audio data received from the microphone and the notification together.
4. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the at least one microphone includes a plurality of microphones and the processor determines a sound source direction of an audio source from audio data received from each of the plurality of microphones, and wherein the outputter outputs information regarding the sound source direction when outputting the notification.
5. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the outputter to stop outputting the notification when a predetermined amount of time passes after the notification starts to be output through the outputter.
6. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: provide the audio data to a voice recognition model for generating text data based on the audio data, and determine whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the text data.
7. The artificial intelligence device 6, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire intention analysis information about the text data, and determine whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the intention analysis information.
8. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: provide the audio data to a situation recognition model for generating situation information, and determine whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the situation information.
9. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the trigger sound includes at least one of a name of the user, a beep sound, a voice command, or a siren sound.
10. The artificial intelligence device of claim 1, wherein the audio data corresponding to the trigger sound is received while the outputter is outputting music.
11. A method of providing a notification to a user using audio data, the method comprising: storing a trigger sound for notifying a user and information about a notification corresponding to the trigger sound; receiving audio data from at least one microphone; changing a volume gain of the at least one microphone based on a noise level of the audio data; and in response to the audio data corresponding to the trigger sound, outputting the notification corresponding to the trigger sound.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the changing of the volume gain includes increasing the volume gain of the at least one microphone when the noise level of the audio data received from the at least one microphone is less than or equal to a predetermined noise level.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the outputting includes outputting the audio data received from the at least one microphone.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one microphone includes a plurality of microphones, wherein the receiving of the audio data includes determining a sound source direction of an audio source from audio data received from each of the plurality of microphones, and wherein the outputting includes outputting information regarding the sound source direction.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: stopping the outputting of the notification when a predetermined amount of time passes after the notification starts to be output.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: providing the audio data to a voice recognition model for generating text data based on the audio data; and determining whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the text data.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: acquiring intention analysis information about the text data; and determining whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the intention analysis information.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: in response to the audio data corresponding to the trigger sound and the audio data not including a voice, providing the audio data to a situation recognition model for generating situation information; and determining whether the audio data corresponds to the trigger sound based on the situation information.
19. A device for providing a notification to a user based on artificial intelligence, the device comprising: a memory configured to store a trigger sound for notifying a user; at least microphone configured to receive audio data; at least one speaker configured to output audio content; and a controller configured to: receive the audio data from the at least one microphone corresponding to the trigger sound while the at least one speaker is outputting the audio content, and output an audio notification via the at least one speaker based on the trigger sound received by the at least microphone and learning data corresponding to one or more trigger sounds.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the trigger sound corresponds to a name of the user of the device.
</claims>
</document>
