<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T17/00,G06T19/20,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CINI, LISA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CINI, LISA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731468
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR RENDERING AND MODIFYING THREE-DIMENSIONAL MODELS FOR INTERIOR DESIGN
</title>

<abstract>
A system for rendering and modifying three-dimensional models for interior design includes a modeling device configured to receive a current design of an interior space, generate a data structure representing the interior space, by populating a plurality of attributes of the data structure and generating a first three-dimensional model of a first portion of the interior space based on the current design, wherein the first three-dimensional model includes a first feature having a first attribute of the plurality of attributes, and wherein a second attribute of the plurality of the attributes is exterior to the first three-dimensional model, display the first three-dimensional model to a user, receive at least a command to modify the first attribute, modify the first three-dimensional model as a function of the at least a command to modify the first attribute, and modify the second attribute as a function of the modification to the first attribute.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of rendering and modifying three-dimensional models for interior design, the method comprising: receiving a current design of an interior space in a building; generating a data structure representing the interior space, wherein generating the data structure further comprises: populating a plurality of attributes of the data structure; and generating a first three-dimensional model of a first portion of the interior space based on the current design, wherein the first three-dimensional model includes a first feature having a first attribute of the plurality of attributes; wherein a second attribute of the plurality of attributes is exterior to the first three-dimensional model; displaying the first three-dimensional model to a user; receiving at least a command to modify the first attribute; modifying the first three-dimensional model as a function of the at least a command to modify the first attribute; and modifying the second attribute as a function of the modification to the first attribute.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second attribute includes a global style attribute.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second attribute includes an infrastructural attribute.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the first three-dimensional model includes receiving a user selection of the first feature.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the first three-dimensional model includes: receiving a photograph of the first portion of the interior space; detecting objects within the photograph; classifying the objects to features; and generating the three first three-dimensional model using the features.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the three-dimensional model further comprises determining a global style attribute of the first three-dimensional model; associating at least a feature with the current design, wherein the at least a feature further includes at least an attribute matching the global style attribute; and generating the three-dimensional model of the portion of the interior space based on the current design.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein populating the plurality of attributes further comprises generating the second attribute using the first attribute.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein populating the plurality of attributes further comprises generating the second attribute as a function of the first feature.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the at least a command to modify the first feature further comprises a command to replace first feature with a second feature; and the second feature has an attribute differing from the first attribute.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least a command includes at least a user goal, and further comprising automatically selecting a first feature to match the at least a user goal.
11. A system for rendering and modifying three-dimensional models for interior design, the system comprising a modeling device, the modeling device designed and configured to receive a current design of an interior space in a building; generate a data structure representing the interior space, wherein generating the data structure further comprises: populating a plurality of attributes of the data structure; and generating a first three-dimensional model of a first portion of the interior space based on the current design, wherein the first three-dimensional model includes a first feature having a first attribute of the plurality of attributes; wherein a second attribute of the plurality of the attributes is exterior to the first three-dimensional model; display the first three-dimensional model to a user; receive at least a command to modify the first attribute; modify the first three-dimensional model as a function of the at least a command to modify the first attribute; and modify the second attribute as a function of the modification to the first attribute.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the second attribute includes a global style attribute.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the second attribute includes an infrastructural attribute.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein generating the first three-dimensional model includes receiving a user selection of the first feature.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein generating the first three-dimensional model includes: receiving a photograph of the first portion of the interior space; detecting objects within the photograph; classifying the objects to features; and generating the three first three-dimensional model using the features.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein generating the three-dimensional model further comprises determining a global style attribute of the first three-dimensional model; associating at least a feature with the current design, wherein the at least a feature further includes at least an attribute matching the global style attribute; and generating the three-dimensional model of the portion of the interior space based on the current design.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein populating the plurality of attributes further comprises generating the second attribute using the first attribute.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein populating the plurality of attributes further comprises generating the second attribute as a function of the first feature.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein: the at least a command to modify the first feature further comprises a command to replace first feature with a second feature; and the second feature has an attribute differing from the first attribute.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least a command includes at least a user goal, and further comprising automatically selecting a first feature to match the at least a user goal.
</claims>
</document>
