<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B76/00,A01B79/00,G01N21/31,G01N33/24,G06F30/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLIMATE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOSHNICK, NICK
CISEK, NICK
XIANG, HAITAO
YANG, XIANYUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57015814
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ESTIMATING SOIL PROPERTIES WITHIN A FIELD USING HYPERSPECTRAL REMOTE SENSING
</title>

<abstract>
A method for building and using soil models that determine soil properties from soil spectrum data is provided. In an embodiment, building soil model may be accomplished using soil spectrum data received via hyperspectral sensors from a land unit. A processor updates the soil spectrum data by removing interference signals from the soil spectrum data. Multiple ground sampling locations within the land unit are then determined based on the updated soil spectrum data. Soil property data are obtained from ground sampling at the ground sampling locations. Soil models that correlate the updated soil spectrum data with the soil property data are created based on the updated soil spectrum data and the soil property data. The soil models are sent to a storage for future use.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for building and using soil models that determine soil properties from soil spectrum data, the method comprising: receiving from hyperspectral sensors, soil spectrum data for an agricultural field and represented using a set of spectral bands; wherein the soil spectrum data represents specific continuous spectral bands, of the set of spectral bands, that have wavelength ranges of electromagnetic spectrums and capturing reflectance measurements taken from the agricultural field within the wavelength ranges; selecting a population set of spectral bands from the set of spectral bands; based on the population set of spectral bands, generating an offspring set of spectral bands; based on the offspring set, generating a mutation set of spectral bands; based on one or more criteria, selecting, from the offspring set and the mutation set of spectral bands, a set of combination spectral bands; generating, based on, at least in part, a subset of the soil spectrum data represented using the set of combination spectral bands, and soil property data obtained for the agricultural field, one or more soil models that correlate the subset of the soil spectrum data with the soil property data, and that indicate one or more locations for performing agricultural operations within the agricultural field; and controlling agricultural machines using the one or more soil models to perform the agricultural operations within the agricultural field.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the hyperspectral sensors are affixed to movable equipment, and wherein the soil spectrum data are associated with different locations within the agricultural field.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: removing interference signals from the soil spectrum data using a prepossessing technique selected from a plurality of preprocessing techniques based on the soil spectrum data, a type of the hyperspectral sensors used to collect the soil spectrum data, or elevation at which the soil spectrum data are received.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of preprocessing techniques comprises: data smoothing, spectral derivatives, standard normal variate prepossessing, or absorbance.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining one or more ground sampling locations within the agricultural field based on the soil spectrum data; and using spatial sampling techniques on the soil spectrum data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the spatial sampling techniques include a conditional Latin Hypercube Sampling.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein creating the one or more soil models comprises: discovering and calibrating latent variables during a multivariate regression analysis.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the discovering and calibrating latent variables comprises: using one or more signature spectral band determination techniques of partial least-square regression algorithm, random forest algorithm, principal component regression, partial least squares, ridge regression, lasso regression, or decision tree statistical procedures.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: predicting soil properties for a specific geo-location within the agricultural field using the one or more soil models.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: training and calibrating the one or more soil models using one or more sets of training data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining optimal locations for planting, nutrient applications, scouting, or implementing sentinel seed technology using the soil models.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: causing displaying the optimal locations in a soil map.
13. One or more non-transitory storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause performance of: receiving from hyperspectral sensors, soil spectrum data for an agricultural field and represented using a set of spectral bands; wherein the soil spectrum data represents specific continuous spectral bands, of the set of spectral bands, that have wavelength ranges of electromagnetic spectrums and capturing reflectance measurements taken from the agricultural field within the wavelength ranges; selecting a population set of spectral bands from the set of spectral bands; based on the population set of spectral bands, generating an offspring set of spectral bands; based on the offspring set, generating a mutation set of spectral bands; based on one or more criteria, selecting, from the offspring set and the mutation set of spectral bands, a set of combination spectral bands; generating, based on, at least in part, a subset of the soil spectrum data represented using the set of combination spectral bands, and soil property data obtained for the agricultural field, one or more soil models that correlate the subset of the soil spectrum data with the soil property data, and that indicate one or more locations for performing agricultural operations within the agricultural field; and controlling agricultural machines using the one or more soil models to perform the agricultural operations within the agricultural field.
14. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, wherein the hyperspectral sensors are affixed to movable equipment, and wherein the soil spectrum data are associated with different locations within the agricultural field.
15. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, wherein removing interference signals comprises: determining a prepossessing technique of a plurality of preprocessing techniques based on the soil spectrum data, type of the hyperspectral sensor used to collect the soil spectrum data, or elevation at which the soil spectrum data are received.
16. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 15, wherein the plurality of preprocessing techniques comprises: data smoothing, spectral derivatives, standard normal variate prepossessing, or absorbance.
17. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, storing additional instructions for: determining ground sampling locations within the agricultural field based on updated soil spectrum data; and using spatial sampling techniques on the updated soil spectrum data.
18. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 17, wherein the spatial sampling techniques include conditional Latin Hypercube Sampling.
19. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 13, storing additional instructions for: discovering and calibrating latent variables during multivariate regression analysis.
20. The one or more non-transitory storage media of claim 19, wherein discovering and calibrating latent variables comprises: using one or more signature spectral band determination techniques of partial least-square regression algorithm, random forest algorithm, principal component regression, partial least squares, ridge regression, lasso regression, or decision tree statistical procedures.
</claims>
</document>
