<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C10B41/04,G06K9/62,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Imubit Israel LTD
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, NADAV
Mukund, Abishek
Stephens, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72606359
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR OPTIMIZING REFINERY COKER PROCESS
</title>

<abstract>
A control system for automatic operation of a coker, the control system. The control system includes a drum feeder operable to modulate a feed of oil into a coke drum of the coker. The control system further includes a controller with a processing circuit. The processing circuit obtains a target coke rate indicating a target rate at which to accumulate coke within the coke drum. The processing circuit further uses a neural network model to generate a target coker feed rate predicted to result in the coke accumulating within the coke drum at the target coke rate. The target coker feed rate indicates a target rate at which to feed the oil into the coke drum. The processing circuit further operates the drum feeder using the target coker feed rate to modulate the feed of oil into the coke drum.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control system for automatic operation of a coker, the control system comprising: a drum feeder operable to modulate a feed of oil into a coke drum of the coker; a controller comprising a processing circuit configured to: obtain a target coke rate indicating a target rate at which to accumulate coke within the coke drum; use a neural network model to generate a target coker feed rate predicted to result in the coke accumulating within the coke drum at the target coke rate, the target coker feed rate indicating a target rate at which to feed the oil into the coke drum; and operate the drum feeder using the target coker feed rate to modulate the feed of oil into the coke drum.
2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the coker is a delayed coker and the feed of oil is residual oil, the delayed coker operable to heat the residual oil to its thermal cracking temperature.
3. The control system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuit is configured to calculate the target coke rate by: determining an amount of remaining space to be filled in the coke drum by comparing a drum outage target with a predicted drum outage; determining an amount of remaining time in a current drum cycle by comparing a cycle time target with an amount of time elapsed in the current drum cycle; and calculating the target coke rate required to fill the amount of remaining space to be filled in the coke drum in the amount of time remaining in the current drum cycle.
4. The control system of claim 1, wherein using the neural network to generate the target coker feed rate comprises: obtaining values of a plurality of disturbance variables predicted to affect a rate at which the coke accumulates within the coke drum, the plurality of disturbance variables comprising one or more attributes of crude oil refined to produce the oil fed into the oil drum or measurements from oil refining equipment that operates to refine the crude oil; applying the values of the plurality of disturbance variables and the target coke rate as inputs to the neural network model; and obtaining the target coker feed rate as an output of the neural network model.
5. The control system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: calculate a plurality of historical coke rates using historical data indicating rates at which the coke accumulated within the coke drum during a plurality of historical time periods; associate the plurality of historical coke rates with historical values of a plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical coke rates; generate a set of training data comprising the historical coke rates and the historical values of the plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical coke rates; and train the neural network model using the set of training data.
6. The control system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: obtain an actual coker feed rate indicating an actual rate at which the oil is fed into the coke drum; and use the neural network model to generate a predicted coke rate predicted to result from feeding the oil into the coke drum at the actual coker feed rate.
7. The control system of claim 6, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: calculate a coke rate bias by comparing the predicted coke rate with an actual coke rate indicating an actual rate at which the coke accumulates within the coke drum; and apply the coke rate bias to another value of the predicted coke rate to generate an adjusted coke rate.
8. The control system of claim 6, wherein the processing circuit is configured to generate a predicted drum outage based on a size of the coke drum and plurality of values of the predicted coke rate at a plurality of times since the coke began accumulating in the coke drum, the predicted drum outage indicating a predicted amount of available space in the coke drum.
9. The control system of claim 8, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: calculate an outage bias by comparing the predicted drum outage with an actual drum outage indicating an actual amount of space available within the coke drum; and apply the outage bias to another value of the predicted drum outage to generate an adjusted value of the drum outage.
10. A method for automatic operation of a coker, the method comprising: obtaining a target coke rate indicating a target rate at which to accumulate coke within a coke drum of the coker; using a neural network model to generate a target coker feed rate predicted to result in the coke accumulating within the coke drum at the target coke rate, the target coker feed rate indicating a target rate at which to feed oil into the coke drum; and operating a drum feeder using the target coker feed rate to modulate a feed of oil into the coke drum.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the coker is a delayed coker and the feed of oil is residual oil, the delayed coker operable to heat the residual oil to its thermal cracking temperature.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein calculating the target coke rate comprises: determining an amount of remaining space to be filled in the coke drum by comparing a drum outage target with a predicted drum outage; determining an amount of remaining time in a current drum cycle by comparing a cycle time target with an amount of time elapsed in the current drum cycle; and calculating the target coke rate required to fill the amount of remaining space to be filled in the coke drum in the amount of time remaining in the current drum cycle.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein using the neural network to generate the target coker feed rate comprises: obtaining values of a plurality of disturbance variables predicted to affect a rate at which the coke accumulates within the coke drum, the plurality of disturbance variables comprising one or more attributes of crude oil refined to produce the oil fed into the oil drum or measurements from oil refining equipment that operates to refine the crude oil; applying the values of the plurality of disturbance variables and the target coke rate as inputs to the neural network model; and obtaining the target coker feed rate as an output of the neural network model.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: calculating a plurality of historical coke rates using historical data indicating rates at which the coke accumulated within the coke drum during a plurality of historical time periods; associating the plurality of historical coke rates with historical values of a plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical coke rates; generating a set of training data comprising the historical coke rates and the historical values of the plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical coke rates; and training the neural network model using the set of training data.
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining an actual coker feed rate indicating an actual rate at which the oil is fed into the coke drum; and using the neural network model to generate a predicted coke rate predicted to result from feeding the oil into the coke drum at the actual coker feed rate.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: calculating a coke rate bias by comparing the predicted coke rate with an actual coke rate indicating an actual rate at which the coke accumulates within the coke drum; and applying the coke rate bias to another value of the predicted coke rate to generate an adjusted coke rate.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising generating a predicted drum outage based on a size of the coke drum and plurality of values of the predicted coke rate at a plurality of times since the coke began accumulating in the coke drum, the predicted drum outage indicating a predicted amount of available space in the coke drum.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: calculating an outage bias by comparing the predicted drum outage with an actual drum outage indicating an actual amount of space available within the coke drum; and applying the outage bias to another value of the predicted drum outage to generate an adjusted value of the drum outage.
19. A control system for automatic operation of a petroleum product refinery, the control system comprising: a feeder operable to modulate a feed of an input petroleum product into a production unit of the petroleum product refinery, the production unit operable to convert at least a portion of the input petroleum product into a derived petroleum product; a controller comprising a processing circuit configured to: obtain a target production rate indicating a target rate at which to produce the derived petroleum product within the production unit; use a predictive model to generate a target feed rate predicted to result in the derived petroleum product being produced within the production unit at the target production rate, the target feed rate indicating a target rate at which to feed the input petroleum product into the production unit; and operate the feeder using the target feed rate to modulate the feed of the input petroleum product into the production unit.
20. The control system of claim 19, wherein using the predictive model to generate the target feed rate comprises: obtaining values of a plurality of disturbance variables predicted to affect a rate at which the derived petroleum product is produced within the production unit, the plurality of disturbance variables comprising one or more attributes of a crude petroleum product refined to produce the input petroleum product fed into the production unit or measurements from refining equipment that operates to refine the crude petroleum product; applying the values of the plurality of disturbance variables and the target production rate as inputs to the predictive model; and obtaining the target feed rate as an output of the predictive model.
21. The control system of claim 19, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: calculate a plurality of historical production rates using historical data indicating rates at which the derived petroleum product was produced during a plurality of historical time periods; associate the plurality of historical production rates with historical values of a plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical production rates; generate a set of training data comprising the historical production rates and the historical values of the plurality of variables predicted to affect the historical production rates; and train the predictive model using the set of training data.
22. The control system of claim 19, wherein the processing circuit is configured to: obtain an actual feed rate indicating an actual rate at which the input petroleum product is fed into the production unit; and use the predictive model to generate a predicted production rate predicted to result from feeding the input petroleum product into the production unit at the actual feed rate.
23. The control system of claim 19, wherein the predictive model is a neural network model.
</claims>
</document>
