<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/483,G06F16/487,G06F16/783,G11B27/034,H04N21/8549
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAUGHMAN, AARON K.
CANNON, GRAY
MARZORATI, MAURO
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71404877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Agglomerated video highlights with custom speckling
</title>

<abstract>
Presentation of video highlights is disclosed. A data processing system receives from multiple users, multimedia files with user-generated video(s), the multimedia files being produced and enhanced by the users. The data processing system generates a speckle excitement vector of the multimedia files based on identifying feature(s) of the user-generated video(s). The processing and distribution system determines a cognitive state of each of the users based, in part, on the speckle excitement vector of each of the multimedia files. The processing and distribution system alters characteristic(s) of the user-generated video(s) of the multimedia files based on the cognitive state of each of the users that results in altered video(s). The processing and distribution system compiles the altered video(s) into a digital file that includes automatically-produced multimedia content. The processing and distribution system makes the digital file available for viewing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of presenting video highlights, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a processing and distribution system, from at least two users, at least two multimedia files each comprising at least one user-generated video, and wherein the at least two multimedia files are produced and enhanced by the at least two users; generating, by the processing and distribution system, a speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files based on at least one identifying feature of the at least one user-generated video; determining, by the processing and distribution system, a cognitive state of each of the at least two users based, in part, on the speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files, wherein the speckle excitement vector comprises at least one data-sorting system for cognitively categorizing at least one aspect of the cognitive state of each of the at least two users within a measurement system, wherein the at least one aspect is represented by a measurable value; altering, by the processing and distribution system, one or more characteristic of the at least one user-generated video of each of the at least two multimedia files based on the cognitive state of the at least two users, resulting in one or more altered video; compiling, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a digital file comprising automatically-produced multimedia content; and making, by the processing and distribution system, the digital file available for viewing.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least two multimedia files are received by the processing and distribution system contemporaneously.
3. (canceled)
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one identifying feature comprises one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of a gesture, sound, speech, and background sound feature.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cognitive state of each of the at least two users is determined in real-time.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more altered video parallels the cognitive state of each of the at least two users.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising sequencing, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a playlist based on one or more selected criterion.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the one or more selected criterion comprises one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of a theme, chronological sequence, location, and environment.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising making available, by the processing and distribution system, the digital file independently of one or more social media platforms.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cognitive state is based on one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of an outcome of applying natural language understanding and biometric information of the at least two users.
11. A system for presenting video highlights, the system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor in communication with the memory, the memory storing program code executable by the at least one processor to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing and distribution system, from at least two users, at least two multimedia files each comprising at least one user-generated video, and wherein the at least two multimedia files are produced and enhanced by the at least two users; generating, by the processing and distribution system, a speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files based on at least one identifying feature of the at least one user-generated video; determining, by the processing and distribution system, a cognitive state of each of the at least two users based, in part, on the speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files, wherein the speckle excitement vector comprises at least one data-sorting system for cognitively categorizing at least one aspect of the cognitive state of each of the at least two users within a measurement system, wherein the at least one aspect is represented by a measurable value; altering, by the processing and distribution system, one or more characteristic of the at least one user-generated video of each of the at least two multimedia files based on the cognitive state of the at least two users, resulting in one or more altered video; compiling, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a digital file comprising automatically-produced multimedia content; and making, by the processing and distribution system, the digital file available for viewing.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the cognitive state is based on one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of an outcome of applying natural language understanding and biometric information of the at least two users.
13. (canceled)
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one identifying feature comprises one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of a gesture, sound, speech, and background sound feature.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the cognitive state for each of the at least two users is determined in real-time.
16. A computer program product for presenting video highlights, the computer program product comprising: a storage medium readable by a processor and storing instructions executable by the processor for performing a method of presenting video highlights, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing and distribution system, from at least two users, at least two multimedia files each comprising at least one user-generated video, and wherein the at least two multimedia files are produced and enhanced by the at least two users; generating, by the processing and distribution system, a speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files based on at least one identifying feature of the at least one user-generated video; determining, by the processing and distribution system, a cognitive state of each of the at least two users based, in part, on the speckle excitement vector of each of the at least two multimedia files, wherein the speckle excitement vector comprises at least one data-sorting system for cognitively categorizing at least one aspect of the cognitive state of each of the at least two users within a measurement system, wherein the at least one aspect is represented by a measurable value; altering, by the processing and distribution system, one or more characteristic of the at least one user-generated video of each of the at least two multimedia files based on the cognitive state of the at least two users, resulting in one or more altered video; compiling, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a digital file comprising automatically-produced multimedia content; and making, by the processing and distribution system, the digital file available for viewing.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the cognitive state is based on one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of an outcome of applying natural language understanding and biometric information of the at least two users.
18. (canceled)
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the at least one identifying feature comprises one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of a gesture, sound, speech, and background sound feature.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the cognitive state for each of the at least two users is determined in real-time.
21. The system of claim 11, further comprising sequencing, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a playlist based on one or more selected criterion.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the one or more selected criterion comprises one or more of the following selected from the group consisting of a theme, chronological sequence, location, and environment.
23. The computer program product of claim 16, further comprising sequencing, by the processing and distribution system, the one or more altered video into a playlist based on one or more selected criterion.
</claims>
</document>
