<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N1/00,H04N1/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HE, DAKE
GOLUBITSKY, OLEG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69165532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTEXT-ADAPTIVE SCANNING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for context-adaptive scanning of digital components. In one aspect, a method comprises: selecting a given digital component from among a plurality of digital components based on a current scanning priority of the given digital component; scanning the given digital component, comprising determining a current state of the given digital component; determining a current context of the given digital component based on one or more of: (i) the current state of the given digital component, or (ii) a current scan index of the given digital component that specifies a number of times the given digital component has been scanned; determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on the current context of the given digital component; and re-scanning the given digital component according to the updated scanning priority.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more data processing apparatus, the method comprising: selecting a given digital component from among a plurality of digital components, wherein: each digital component of the plurality of digital components has a current scanning priority that defines a current priority for scanning the digital component; and the given digital component is selected based on the current scanning priority of the given digital component; scanning the given digital component, comprising determining a current state of the given digital component, wherein the current state of the given digital component defines a current compliance status of the given digital component that specifies whether the given digital component currently complies with a policy criterion; determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change; and re-scanning the given digital component according to the updated scanning priority.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change comprises: determining a current context of the given digital component; and using a mapping function to map the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change is determined by processing logged data that characterizes, for each of a plurality of particular digital components: when the particular digital component was scanned, the state of the particular digital component when it was scanned, and the context of the particular digital component when it was scanned.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component using a likelihood that, based on the current context of the given digital component, the state of the given digital component will change before a next time the given digital component is scanned.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the mapping function is determined using a local transition probability distribution.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the current context of the given digital component is based on one or more of: the current state of the given digital component, a current scan index of the given digital component that specifies a number of times the given digital component has been scanned, a number of times that the given digital component has been transmitted for presentation with electronic documents at user devices, and which electronic documents the given digital component has been presented with at the user devices.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein for each of a plurality of possible current contexts, the mapping function defines a mapping from the possible current context to data defining a corresponding scanning priority.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the given digital component specifies a landing page, and scanning the given digital component comprises determining whether the landing page hosts malware.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the updated scanning priority of the given digital component specifies a waiting time until the given digital component is next scanned.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein: the data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component comprises a scaling factor; and determining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on the current context of the given digital component further comprises: identifying a default scanning priority of the given digital component; and determining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component as a function of the default scanning priority of the given digital component and the scaling factor.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the function of the default scanning priority of the given digital component and the scaling factor comprises a product of the default scanning priority of the given digital component and the scaling factor.
12. A system comprising: one or more computers; and one or more storage devices communicatively coupled to the one or more computers, wherein the one or more storage devices store instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: selecting a given digital component from among a plurality of digital components, wherein: each digital component of the plurality of digital components has a current scanning priority that defines a current priority for scanning the digital component; and the given digital component is selected based on the current scanning priority of the given digital component; scanning the given digital component, comprising determining a current state of the given digital component, wherein the current state of the given digital component defines a current compliance status of the given digital component that specifies whether the given digital component currently complies with a policy criterion; determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change; and re-scanning the given digital component according to the updated scanning priority.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change comprises: determining a current context of the given digital component; and using a mapping function to map the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change is determined by processing logged data that characterizes, for each of a plurality of particular digital components: when the particular digital component was scanned, the state of the particular digital component when it was scanned, and the context of the particular digital component when it was scanned.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component using a likelihood that, based on the current context of the given digital component, the state of the given digital component will change before a next time the given digital component is scanned.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the mapping function is determined using a local transition probability distribution.
17. One or more non-transitory computer storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more computers cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: selecting a given digital component from among a plurality of digital components, wherein: each digital component of the plurality of digital components has a current scanning priority that defines a current priority for scanning the digital component; and the given digital component is selected based on the current scanning priority of the given digital component; scanning the given digital component, comprising determining a current state of the given digital component, wherein the current state of the given digital component defines a current compliance status of the given digital component that specifies whether the given digital component currently complies with a policy criterion; determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change; and re-scanning the given digital component according to the updated scanning priority.
18. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 17, wherein determining an updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change comprises: determining a current context of the given digital component; and using a mapping function to map the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component based on how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change.
19. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 18, wherein how frequently the state of the given digital component is predicted to change is determined by processing logged data that characterizes, for each of a plurality of particular digital components: when the particular digital component was scanned, the state of the particular digital component when it was scanned, and the context of the particular digital component when it was scanned.
20. The non-transitory computer storage media of claim 18, wherein the mapping function maps the current context of the given digital component to data defining the updated scanning priority of the given digital component using a likelihood that, based on the current context of the given digital component, the state of the given digital component will change before a next time the given digital component is scanned.
</claims>
</document>
