<document>

<filing_date>
2020-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/50,G06N3/063,G11C11/16,H01L43/04,H01L43/06,H01L43/08,H01L43/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HATCHER, RYAN
RAKSHIT, TITASH
KITTL, JORGE A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68980764
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GIANT SPIN HALL-BASED COMPACT NEUROMORPHIC CELL OPTIMIZED FOR DIFFERENTIAL READ INFERENCE
</title>

<abstract>
A non-volatile data retention circuit includes a complementary latch configured to generate and store complementary non-volatile spin states corresponding to an input signal when in a write mode, and to concurrently generate a first charge current signal and a second charge current corresponding to the complementary non-volatile spin states when in read mode, and a differential amplifier coupled to the complementary latch and configured to generate an output signal based on the first and second charge current signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-volatile data retention circuit comprising: a complementary latch configured to generate and store complementary non-volatile spin states corresponding to an input signal when in a write mode, and to concurrently generate a first charge current and a second charge current corresponding to the complementary non-volatile spin states when in a read mode; a differential amplifier coupled to the complementary latch and comprising a current mirror configured to receive the second charge current and to generate a reverse current having a polarity that is the reverse of that of the second charge current, the differential amplifier being configured to generate an output signal based on the first charge current and the reverse current.
2. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 1, wherein the differential amplifier comprises a current sense amplifier.
3. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 1, wherein the complementary latch comprises: a giant spin hall metal configured to pass through a charge current corresponding to the input signal; a first spin transfer torque (STT) stack at a first side of the giant spin hall metal; and a second STT stack at a second side of the giant spin hall metal opposite to the first side, wherein the first and second STT stacks extend along a direction orthogonal to an extension direction of the giant spin hall metal, and are configured to generate and store the complementary non-volatile spin states.
4. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 3, wherein, in response to the charge current flowing through the giant spin hall metal, the first STT stack is configured to exhibit magnetic moments having a parallel configuration, and the second STT stack is configured to exhibit magnetic moments having an anti-parallel configuration
5. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 4, wherein the first and second STT stacks are configured to maintain their parallel and anti-parallel configurations even when no power is provided to the non-volatile data retention circuit.
6. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 4, wherein the parallel configuration of the first STT stack and the anti-parallel configuration of the second STT stack correspond to storage of the complementary non-volatile spin states at the first and second STT stacks.
7. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 3, wherein the giant spin hall metal comprises beta tantalum, platinum, and/or copper bismuth.
8. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 3, wherein each of the first and second STT stacks comprise: a free layer comprising magnetic material and configured to respond to a spin current corresponding to the charge current flowing through the giant spin hall metal based on a giant spin hall effect, and to exhibit a free magnetic moment substantially orthogonal in direction to the spin current; a fixed layer comprising magnetic material and exhibiting a fixed magnetic moment unaffected by stray fields resulting from the charge current flowing through the giant spin hall metal; and a non-magnetic layer between the free and fixed layers and configured to magnetically isolate the free magnetic moment of the free layer from the fixed magnetic moment of the fixed layer and to maintain any existing difference in directionality of the free and fixed magnetic moments.
9. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 8, wherein, in response to the charge current flowing through the giant spin hall metal, the free layer of the first STT stack is configured to exhibit a first free magnetic moment parallel with the fixed magnetic moment of the corresponding fixed layer, and the free layer of the second STT stack is configured to exhibit a second free magnetic moment anti-parallel with the fixed magnetic moment of the corresponding fixed layer.
10. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 3, further comprising: a first transistor coupled to the giant spin hall metal and configured to activate in response to a first selection signal; and a second transistor coupled to the giant spin hall metal and configured to activate in response to a second selection signal, wherein, when in the write mode, the first and second transistors are configured to activate and to enable flow of the charge current through the giant spin hall metal in response to the first and second selection signals, and wherein, when in the read mode, the second transistor is configured to deactivate, and the firs transistor is configured to activate and to enable flow of a first charge current through the first STT stack and a second charge current through the second STT stack in response to the first selection signal.
11. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 10, wherein the first and second transistors are coupled to opposite ends of the giant spin hall metal, and wherein the second transistor is configured to electrically couple the giant spin hall metal to a pull down resistor in response to the second selection signal.
12. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 4, wherein the differential amplifier comprises a first input configured to receive a first charge current from the first STT stack, and a second input configured to receive a second charge current from the second STT stack.
13. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 1, wherein the complementary latch is configured to continue storing the complementary non-volatile spin states even when no electrical power is provided to the non-volatile data retention circuit.
14. The non-volatile data retention circuit of claim 1, wherein the differential amplifier is directly coupled to opposite ends of the complementary latch through first and second bits lines and configured to receive the first and second charge currents through the first and second bits lines.
15. A data processing system comprising: a first complementary latch configured to generate and store first complementary non-volatile spin states corresponding to a first input signal when in a write mode, and to concurrently generate a first charge current and a second charge current corresponding to the first complementary non-volatile spin states when in a read mode; a second complementary latch configured to generate and store second complementary non-volatile spin states corresponding to a second input signal when in the write mode, and to concurrently generate a third charge current and a fourth charge current corresponding to the second complementary non-volatile spin states when in the read mode; a differential amplifier coupled to the first and second complementary latches and comprising a current mirror configured to receive the second and fourth charge currents and to generate a reverse current having a polarity that is the reverse of that of the second and fourth charge currents, the differential amplifier being configured to generate an output signal based on the first to fourth charge currents.
16. The data processing system of claim 15, wherein a first input of the differential amplifier is configured to receive a sum of the first and third charge currents from the first and second complementary latches.
17. The data processing system of claim 15, wherein the reverse current corresponds to a sum of the second and fourth charge currents.
18. The data processing system of claim 15, wherein the first complementary latch comprises: a giant spin hall metal configured to pass through a charge current corresponding to the input signal; a first spin transfer torque (STT) stack at a first side of the giant spin hall metal; and a second STT stack at a second side of the giant spin hall metal opposite to the first side, wherein the first and second STT stacks extend along a direction orthogonal to an extension direction of the giant spin hall metal, and are configured to generate and store the complementary non-volatile spin states.
19. The data processing system of claim 18, wherein, in response to the charge current flowing through the giant spin hall metal, the first STT stack is configured to exhibit magnetic moments having a parallel configuration, and the second STT stack is configured to exhibit magnetic moments having an anti-parallel configuration
20. The data processing system of claim 18, wherein the first and second STT stacks are configured to maintain their parallel and anti-parallel configurations even when no power is provided to the data processing system.
</claims>
</document>
