<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9536,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, CHIWEN
CHOU, KUO-LIANG
HSIEH, TSAI-HSUAN
LAN, CI-WEI
LIN, I-CHIEN
LIN, KATE
WU, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PHOTO SHARING IN SOCIAL MEDIA NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Determining a photo sharing suggestion regarding a photo to be shared by a user to a social media platform. The photo to be shared contains at least one other person than the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a photo sharing suggestion to a user regarding a new photo containing at least one other person than the user, the photo to be shared by the user to a social media platform, the method comprising the steps of: a computer extracting raw metadata from the new photo; the computer retrieving primary information from the new photo; the computer determining secondary information from the new photo based on the primary information; the computer determining personalized and/or group preferences for sharing photos of at least the one other person in the new photo; the computer learning photo sharing behavior of at least the one other person in the new photo; and the computer providing a suggestion to the user for sharing the new photo to the social media platform.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the computer receiving feedback and the computer updating sharing preferences associated with at least the one other person.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of the computer determining personalized and/or group preferences for sharing photos of the at least one other person in the new photo further comprises: the computer retrieving historically shared photos from the at least one other person in the new photo and the user; the computer filtering the historically shared photos by tags which are equivalent to tags associated with the new photo; the computer determining representative features for historically shared photos with tags equivalent to tags associated with the new photo and the new photo; and the computer evaluating the representative features for a coinciding sharing preference.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the step of the computer determining representative features for historically shared photos with tags equivalent to tags associated with the new photo and the new photo further comprises: the computer dividing the retrieved historically shared photos based on tags indicating a presence of a target tag feature; the computer calculating an importance of all features within the retrieved historically shared photos based on the target tag feature; the computer determining at least one representative feature(s) of the retrieved historically shared photos; and the computer listing the features representing the retrieved historically shared photos based on the calculated importance.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of the computer learning photo sharing behavior of at least the one other person in the new photo further comprises: the computer designating a set of historically shared photos from the at least one other person in the new photo and the user as a training set; the computer applying labels to photos within the training set; the computer selecting training data with a confidence consideration; the computer constructing multiple users to learn sharing behaviors representing at least context, personalized preference, and group tendencies; and the computer receiving feedback from the multiple users to share or not share the new photo to the social media platform.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the labels which are applied are public-representing photos which have been publically shared to the social media platform and nonpublic-representing photos which have not been publically shared to the social media platform.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the confidence consideration is determined by feature level selection or record level section.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein for each feature, a value assigned to the feature is set to null if confidence in the feature is lower than a generated random number.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein in record level selection, records are selected when a majority of the records and associated feature confidence is greater than a generated random number.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the primary information is based on content present within the photo and user-defined contextual data.
11. A computer program product for determining a photo sharing suggestion to a user regarding a new photo containing at least one other person than the user, the photo to be shared by the user to a social media platform through a computer, the computer comprising at least one processor, one or more memories, one or more computer readable storage media, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by the computer to perform a method comprising: extracting, by the computer, raw metadata from the new photo; retrieving, by the computer, primary information from the new photo; determining, by the computer, secondary information from the new photo based on the primary information; determining, by the computer, personalized and/or group preferences for sharing photos of at least the one other person in the new photo; learning, by the computer, photo sharing behavior of at least the one other person in the new photo; and providing, by the computer, a suggestion to the user for sharing the new photo to the social media platform.
12. A computer system for determining a photo sharing suggestion to a user regarding a new photo containing at least one other person than the user, the photo to be shared by the user to a social media platform through a computer system comprising a computer comprising at least one processor, one or more memories, one or more computer readable storage media having program instructions executable by the computer to perform the program instructions comprising: extracting, by the computer, raw metadata from the new photo; retrieving, by the computer, primary information from the new photo; determining, by the computer, secondary information from the new photo based on the primary information; determining, by the computer, personalized and/or group preferences for sharing photos of at least the one other person in the new photo; learning, by the computer, photo sharing behavior of at least the one other person in the new photo; and providing, by the computer, a suggestion to the user for sharing the new photo to the social media platform.
13. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising receiving, by the computer, feedback and updating, by the computer, sharing preferences associated with at least the one other person.
14. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the program instructions of determining, by the computer, personalized and/or group preferences for sharing photos of the at least one other person in the new photo further comprises: retrieving, by the computer, historically shared photos from the at least one other person in the new photo and the user; filtering, by the computer, the historically shared photos by tags which are equivalent to tags associated with the new photo; determining, by the computer, representative features for historically shared photos with tags equivalent to tags associated with the new photo and the new photo; and evaluating, by the computer, the representative features for a coinciding sharing preference.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the program instructions of determining, by the computer, representative features for historically shared photos with tags equivalent to tags associated with the new photo and the new photo further comprises: dividing, by the computer, the retrieved historically shared photos based on tags indicating a presence of a target tag feature; calculating, by the computer, an importance of all features within the retrieved historically shared photos based on the target tag feature; determining, by the computer, at least one representative feature(s) of the retrieved historically shared photos; and listing, by the computer, the features representing the retrieved historically shared photos based on the calculated importance.
16. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the program instructions of learning, by the computer, photo sharing behavior of at least the one other person in the new photo further comprises: designating, by the computer, a set of historically shared photos from the at least one other person in the new photo and the user as a training set; applying, by the computer, labels to photos within the training set; selecting, by the computer, training data with a confidence consideration; constructing, by the computer, multiple users to learn sharing behaviors representing at least context, personalized preference, and group tendencies; and receiving, by the computer, feedback from the multiple users to share or not share the new photo to the social media platform.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the labels which are applied are public-representing photos which have been publically shared to the social media platform and nonpublic-representing photos which have not been publically shared to the social media platform.
18. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the confidence consideration is determined by feature level selection or record level section.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein for each feature, a value assigned to the feature is set to null if confidence in the feature is lower than a generated random number.
20. The computer system of claim 18, wherein in record level selection, records are selected when a majority of the records and associated feature confidence is greater than a generated random number.
</claims>
</document>
