<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASTHANA, AVINASH
BIDDLE, EDWARD JAMES
PEREPA, SUJATHA B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850799
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SUPERVISED MACHINE LEARNING MODELS OF DOCUMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts for managing a supervised machine learning model of a set of documents are presented. A system obtains annotated versions of the documents, the documents being annotated by annotators. A conflict between a plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents is identified. The machine learning model includes a set of entities and relations defining relationships between entities. The identified conflict is resolved by at least one of identifying the correct annotation between the conflicting options, splitting the annotated text into two separate entities or relations, generating a new entity at the same or a less specific hierarchical level as the entities or relation in conflict, and/or changing an annotation of the annotated version of the document.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for managing supervised machine learning of documents, the method comprising: obtaining a machine learning model of a set of documents, the machine learning model including a set of entities and relations defining relationships between entities, wherein each entity of the set of entities has a respective hierarchal level that indicates a relative specificity of the entity; obtaining annotated versions of the documents, the documents being annotated by annotators; identifying a conflict between a plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents, the conflict relating to text that maps to at least one of an entity of the set of entities or a relation of the set of relations; and resolving the identified conflict, wherein resolving the identified conflict comprises at least one of: identifying the correct annotation between the conflicting options, splitting the annotated text into two separate entities or relations, generating a new entity at the same or a less specific hierarchical level as the entities in conflict, and changing an annotation of the annotated version of the document.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a pattern of conflicts; and based on the identified pattern of conflicts, changing one or more annotations of an annotated version of a document.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective annotator is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: based on the identified pattern of conflicts, generating an accuracy score for indicating a level of annotation accuracy of the annotator for the conflict type; and associating the generated accuracy score with the conflict type of the annotator.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the conflict type is associated with a respective entity or relation of the machine learning model and resolving the identified conflict includes updating the annotation of the respective entity or relation based on the accuracy score of the annotator.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective entity or relation of the machine learning model is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein resolving the identified conflict includes modifying the respective entity or relation of the machine learning model.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the conflict between the plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents includes: identifying a topic of the document; and analyzing the topic and the machine learning model of the document to identify a discrepancy between the topic and the plurality of annotations.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the new entity or relation for the conflict in question at the same or less specific hierarchical level as the entities in conflict comprises annotating text as a new entity.
10. A computer program product for managing supervised machine learning of documents, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processing unit to cause the processing unit to: obtain a machine learning model of a set of documents, the machine learning model including a set of entities and relations defining relationships between entities, wherein each entity of the set of entities has a respective hierarchal level that indicates a relative specificity of the entity; obtain annotated versions of the documents, the documents being annotated by annotators; identify a conflict between a plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents, the conflict relating to text that maps to at least one of an entity of the set of entities or a relation of the set of relations of the machine learning model; and resolve the identified conflict, wherein resolving the identified conflict comprises at least one of: identifying the correct annotation between the conflicting options, splitting the annotated text into two separate entities or relations, generating a new entity at the same or a less specific hierarchical level as the entities in conflict, and changing an annotation of the annotated version of the document.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, further including program instructions that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the processing unit to: identify a pattern of conflicts; and based on the identified pattern of conflicts, change one or more annotations of an annotated version of a document.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective annotator is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate, further including program instructions that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the processing unit to: based on the identified pattern of conflicts, generate an accuracy score for indicating a level of annotation accuracy of the annotator for the conflict type; and associate the generated accuracy score with the conflict type of the annotator.
13. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective entity or relation of the machine learning model is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, further including program instructions that, when executed by the processing unit, cause the processing unit to identify the conflict between the plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents by: identifying a topic of the document; and analyzing the topic and the machine learning model of the document to identify a discrepancy between the topic and the plurality of annotations.
15. A system for managing supervised machine learning of documents, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory in communication with the processor, the memory containing program instructions that, when executed by the processor, are configured to cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: obtaining a machine learning model of a set of documents, the machine learning model including a set of entities and relations defining relationships between entities, wherein each entity of the set of entities has a respective hierarchal level that indicates a relative specificity of the entity; obtaining annotated versions of the documents, the documents being annotated by annotators; identifying a conflict between a plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents, the conflict relating to text that maps to at least one of an entity of the set of entities or a relation of the set of relations; and resolving the identified conflict, wherein resolving the identified conflict comprises at least one of: identifying the correct annotation between the conflicting options, splitting the annotated text into two separate entities or relations, generating a new entity at the same or a less specific hierarchical level as the entities in conflict, and changing an annotation of the annotated version of the document.
16. The system of claim 15, the memory further including program instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: identify a pattern of conflicts; and based on the identified pattern of conflicts, change one or more annotations of an annotated version of a document.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective annotator is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate, the memory further including program instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: based on the identified pattern of conflicts, generate an accuracy score for indicating a level of annotation accuracy of the annotator for the conflict type; and associate the generated accuracy score with the conflict type of the annotator.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein identifying the pattern of conflicts includes identifying that a respective entity or relation of the machine learning model is involved with a conflict type a threshold number of times or at more than a threshold rate.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein resolving the identified conflict includes modifying the respective entity or relation of the machine learning model.
20. The system of claim 15, the memory further including program instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to identify the conflict between the plurality of annotations of the annotated versions of the documents by: identifying a topic of the document; and analyzing the topic and the machine learning model of the document to identify a discrepancy between the topic and the plurality of annotations.
</claims>
</document>
