<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/00,A61B8/08,A61B8/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLCANO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAIR, ANUJA
RAJGURU, NIKHIL SREEDHAR
DI TULLIO, ALESSANDRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68382436
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTRALUMINAL ULTRASOUND DIRECTIONAL GUIDANCE AND ASSOCIATED DEVICES, SYSTEMS, AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an intraluminal ultrasound imaging system, including a processor in communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, and configured to receive a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter while the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter is moved through a body lumen of a patient. The processor is further configured to determine an orientation of each of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images, and display an intraluminal ultrasound image of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images, and a directionality indicator identifying the orientation of the intraluminal ultrasound image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intraluminal ultrasound imaging system, comprising: a processor circuit configured for communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, wherein the processor circuit is configured to: receive a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter while the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter is moved through a body lumen of a patient; determine an orientation of each of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; output, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising: an intraluminal ultrasound image of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; and a directionality indicator identifying the orientation of the intraluminal ultrasound image.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to: output, via the screen display, the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; and change the directionality indicator to identify the orientation of a corresponding one of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to output, via the screen display, the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images such that each of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images is rotated in the screen display based on the determined orientation, wherein the directionality indicator comprises the same orientation in the screen display for the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images.
4. The system of claim 1, the directionality indicator comprises a direction relative to at least one of the body lumen or the patient.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the direction relative to the patient comprises at least one of an anterior direction, a posterior direction, a medial direction, or a lateral direction.
6. The system of claim 5, further comprising a user interface in communication with the processor circuit, wherein the processor circuit is configured to receive a user input via the user interface.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor circuit is configured to reorient at least one of the intraluminal ultrasound image or the directionality indicator in the screen display, in response to the user input.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor circuit is configured to: perform an enhancement of the intraluminal ultrasound image, in response to the user input; and modify the intraluminal ultrasound image in the screen display based on the enhancement.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the enhancement comprises a change to at least one of contrast, gain, focus, or brightness of the intraluminal ultrasound image.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to: perform an automatic measurement of the body lumen based on the intraluminal ultrasound image; and output the automatic measurement via the screen display.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the automatic measurement comprises at least one of an area, a diameter, a length, or a compression percentage.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the screen display further comprises: an external view of the body lumen.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the screen display further comprises an indicator identifying a location of the intraluminal ultrasound image along a length of the body lumen in the external view.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the screen display further comprises an instructional pane displaying at least one of status information about the system, instructions for operating the system, or instructions for moving the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter through the body lumen.
15. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor circuit is configured to identify at least one anatomical landmark in the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images, and wherein the processor circuit determining the orientation is based on the at least one anatomical landmark.
17. An intraluminal ultrasound imaging method, comprising: receiving, at a processor circuit in communication with an intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter, a plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images obtained by the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter while the intraluminal ultrasound imaging catheter is moved through a body lumen of a patient; determining, by the processor circuit, an orientation of each of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; and outputting, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising: an intraluminal ultrasound image of the plurality of intraluminal ultrasound images; and a directionality indicator identifying the orientation of the intraluminal ultrasound image.
18. An intravascular ultrasound imaging system for use in peripheral vasculature, the system comprising: an intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter configured to obtain a plurality of intravascular ultrasound images while the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter is moved through a peripheral blood vessel of a patient; a processor circuit configured for communication with the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter, wherein the processor circuit is configured to: receive the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images obtained by the intravascular ultrasound imaging catheter; identify at least one anatomical landmark in the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images; determine an orientation of each of the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images based on the at least one anatomical landmark; output, to a display in communication with the processor circuit, a screen display comprising: an intravascular ultrasound image of the plurality of intravascular ultrasound images; and a directionality indicator identifying the orientation of the intravascular ultrasound image.
</claims>
</document>
