<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GLOUDERA, LNC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CONVERTINO, GREGORIO
LEE WILLIAMS, MICHAEL JOHN
LI, TIANYI
MOST, HALEY ALLEN
TSAI, YI-HSUN
WENBO, WENBO
ZAJONC, MICHAEL TRISTAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883505
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HYPERPARAMETER TUNING USING VISUAL ANALYTICS IN A DATA SCIENCE PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for facilitating the tuning of hyperparameter values during the development of machine learning (ML) models using visual analytics in a data science platform. In an example embodiment, a computer-implemented data science platform is configured to generate, and display to a user, interactive visualizations that dynamically change in response to user interaction. Using the introduced technique, a user can, for example, 1) tune hyperparameters through an iterative process using visual analytics to gain and use insights into how certain hyperparameters affect model performance and convergence, 2) leverage automation and recommendations along this process to optimize the tuning given available resources, 3) collaborate with peers, and 4) view costs associated with executing experiments during the tuning process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for facilitating tuning of machine learning (ML) model hyperparameters using interactive visualizations, the method comprising: receiving, by a computer system, results of a batch of ML model experiments, the results including a plurality of performance metric values generated by executing a plurality of ML model experiments using a dataset and a plurality of hyperparameter values; causing display, by the computer system, at a user device, of a graphical user interface (GUI), the GUI including a plurality of interactive visualizations based on the results of the batch of ML model experiments, the plurality of interactive visualizations indicative of relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values; detecting, by the computer system, via the GUI, a user interaction with a particular interactive visualization of the plurality of interactive visualizations; and dynamically updating, by the computer system, one or more of the plurality of interactive visualizations in response to the detected user interaction to enable the user to iteratively explore the relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interactive visualizations includes: a first interactive visualization of a first visualization type; and a second interactive visualization of a second visualization type different than the first visualization type; wherein the second interactive visualization is linked to the first interactive visualization such that user interaction with the first interactive visualization causes the computer system to dynamically update the first interactive visualization and the second interactive visualization.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected user interaction with the particular interactive visualization includes a user input selecting a portion of the particular interactive visualization corresponding to any of: a subset of the plurality of ML model experiments; a subset of the plurality of hyperparameter values; or a subset of the plurality of performance metric values; wherein dynamically updating the one or more of the plurality of interactive visualization in response to the detected user interaction includes filtering the results of the batch of ML model experiments based on the user input and dynamically updating the one or more of the plurality of interactive visualizations based on the filtering.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the user input includes a brushing input.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, via the GUI, a user selection of a particular ML model experiment of the plurality of ML model experiments; and in response to the user selection, causing display of a particular interactive visualization based on a subset of the plurality of the plurality of hyperparameter values and plurality of performance metric values associated with the particular ML model experiment.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the particular interactive visualization is an epoch observatory visualization that dynamically plots a progression of a particular performance metric over a plurality of epochs during the particular ML model experiment in response to user interaction.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interactive visualizations includes a scatter plot matrix, the scatter plot matrix comprising: a plurality of scatter plot visualizations arranged in columns and rows based on hyperparameters and performance metric values, each of the plurality of scatter plot visualizations including a plot of value pairs for a particular combination of hyperparameter and performance metric for each of the plurality of ML model experiments.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of interactive visualizations includes a chart that plots values for a user-selectable performance metric resulting from each of the plurality of ML model experiments.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein executing each of the plurality of ML model experiments includes: processing the dataset to train a particular version of an ML model configured based on a particular combination of one or more of the plurality of hyperparameter values; and generating one or more of the plurality of performance metric values based on the processing.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of ML model experiments is associated with versioned hyperparameter value inputs and performance metric outputs.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of ML model experiments is executed in a distributed computing cluster.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein each of the plurality of ML model experiments is executed in a different resource container in the distributed computing cluster.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein any one or more of the plurality of hyperparameter values and/or plurality of performance metric values are continuous values, discrete values, and/or categorical values.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, via the GUI, a user selection of a second plurality of hyperparameter values; generating, by the computer system, a second batch of ML model experiments based on the second plurality of hyperparameter values; and causing, by the computer system, the execution of the second batch of ML model experiments.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: before causing the execution of the second batch of ML model experiments: causing display, by the computer system, in the GUI, of an option to select from a plurality of different execution computer systems to execute the second batch of ML model experiments, the plurality of different execution computer systems including a premises computing cluster and one or more cloud-based computing clusters; receiving, by the computer system, via the displayed option, a selection by the user of a particular execution computer system from the plurality of execution computer systems; and causing the particular execution computer system to execute the second batch of ML model experiments.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, by a computer system, results of the second batch of ML model experiments, the results including a second plurality of performance metric values generated by executing a second plurality of ML model experiments using the dataset and the second plurality of hyperparameter values; causing display, by the computer system, in the GUI, of a second plurality of interactive visualizations based on the results of the second batch of ML model experiments detecting, by the computer system, a user interaction with a second particular interactive visualization of the second plurality of interactive visualizations; and dynamically updating, by the computer system, one or more of the second plurality of interactive visualizations in response to the detected user interaction to enable the user to iteratively explore the relationships between the second plurality of hyperparameter values and the second plurality of performance metric values.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein generating the second batch of ML model experiments includes: determining, by the computer system, a proposed plurality of ML model experiments to include in the second batch based on the second plurality of hyperparameter values selected by the user; causing display, by the computer system, via the GUI, of an interactive listing of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments; and receiving, by the computer system, via the interactive listing, a selection by the user of a second plurality of ML model experiments from the proposed plurality of ML model experiments; wherein the generated second batch of ML model experiments includes the second plurality of ML model experiments selected by the user.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, by the computer system, if any of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments have already been executed as part of a previous batch of ML model experiments; and causing display, by the computer system, in the interactive listing, of an indication of which of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments have already been executed based on the determining.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, by the computer system, a cost associated with executing the proposed plurality of ML model experiments, the cost including any of resource utilization cost, monetary cost, and/or time cost; and causing display, by the computer system, in the interactive listing, of an indication of the cost associated with executing the proposed plurality of ML model experiments based on the determining.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the determined cost includes: a first cost associated with executing the proposed plurality of ML model experiments using a first execution computer system; and a second cost associated with executing the proposed plurality of ML model experiments using a second execution computer system, the second execution computer system different than the first execution computer system; wherein the indication of cost displayed in the interactive listing includes an option that enables the user to select the first execution computer system and/or second execution computer system to execute one or more of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the cost includes: analyzing, by the computer system, previously executed ML model experiments.
22. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, by the computer system, a cost associated with executing each of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments, the cost including any of resource utilization cost, monetary cost, and/or time cost; and causing display, by the computer system, in the interactive listing, of an indication of the cost associated with executing each of the proposed plurality of ML model experiments based on the determining.
23. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, by the computer system, a constraint based on any of available computing resources to execute experiments, cost to execute experiments, and/or time to execute experiments; and determining, by the computer system, an optimal plurality of ML model experiments to include in the second batch based on the constraint; causing display, by the computer system, in the interactive listing, a recommendation to the user based on the optimal plurality of ML model experiments to include in the second batch.
24. The method of claim 1, further comprising: analyzing, by the computer system, the results of the batch of ML model experiments; generating, by the computer system, a recommended hyperparameter for the ML model based on the analysis; and causing display, by the computer system, via the GUI, of the recommended hyperparameter value.
25. The method of claim 24, further comprising: determining, by the computer system, a selected data pattern based on the detected user interaction with the particular interactive visualization; and applying the selected data pattern when analyzing the results of the batch of ML model experiments.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the selected data pattern is indicative of a relationship between one or more pairs of hyperparameter and performance metric values.
27. The method of claim 25, wherein the detected user interaction with the particular interactive visualization includes a user drawn line indicative of the selected data pattern.
28. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, user-specified hyperparameter values; and generating, by the computer system, an ML model based on the user-specified hyperparameter values.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the ML model is any of a neural network, a classifier, or a clustering model.
30. The method of claim 1, wherein hyperparameters include any of: batch size, number of epochs, dropout rate, learning rate, number of layers, number of clusters, number of trees, or depth.
31. The method of claim 1, wherein performance metrics include any of accuracy, loss, area under curve, or error.
32. A computer system for facilitating tuning of machine learning (ML) model hyperparameters using interactive visualizations, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory including instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, causes the computer system to: receive results of a batch of ML model experiments, the results including a plurality of performance metric values generated by executing a plurality of ML model experiments using a dataset and a plurality of hyperparameter values; cause display, at a user device, of a graphical user interface (GUI), the GUI including a plurality of interactive visualizations based on the results of the batch of ML model experiments, the plurality of interactive visualizations indicative of relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values; detect a user interaction, via the GUI, with a particular interactive visualization of the plurality of interactive visualizations; and dynamically update one or more of the plurality of interactive visualizations in response to the detected user interaction to enable the user to iteratively explore the relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values.
33. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing instructions, execution of which by a computer system, causes the computer system to: receive results of a batch of machine learning (ML) model experiments, the results including a plurality of performance metric values generated by executing a plurality of ML model experiments using a dataset and a plurality of hyperparameter values; cause display, at a user device, of a graphical user interface (GUI), the GUI including a plurality of interactive visualizations based on the results of the batch of ML model experiments, the plurality of interactive visualizations indicative of relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values; detect a user interaction, via the GUI, with a particular interactive visualization of the plurality of interactive visualizations; and dynamically update one or more of the plurality of interactive visualizations in response to the detected user interaction to enable the user to iteratively explore the relationships between the plurality of hyperparameter values and the plurality of performance metric values.
</claims>
</document>
