<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/911,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SONG, HAN YING
Dang, Ya Juan
Hou, Xiao Wei
Tao, Shen Ming
Yuan, Junfeng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663284
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSISTANCE IN SERVICE PROVISION
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes performing at least the following operations by one or more processors: receiving a request initiated by a device of a first user for a first service to be provisioned by a first entity, deriving a first user preference data based, at least in part, on a historical interaction information of the first user with a second entity provisioning a second service, and responsive to receiving the request, provisioning an instantiation of the first service, by the first entity, in a manner that is based, at least in part, on the first user preference data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising performing at least the following operations by one or more processor(s): receiving, by a first entity, a request initiated by a device of a first user for a first service to be provisioned by the first entity; detecting, by a service assistance engine, the request initiation from the device, the service assistance engine being communicatively connected to the device and communicatively connected to the first entity; responsive to detecting the request, deriving first user preference data based, at least in part, on a historical interaction information of the first user with a second entity provisioning a second service, the historical interaction information being analyzed by the service assistance engine to derive the first user preference data, wherein the second entity is communicatively connected to the service assistance engine; responsive to receiving the request, provisioning an instantiation of the first service, by the first entity, in a manner that is based, at least in part, on the first user preference data; and storing the first user preference data as a profile for the first user in a database accessible by the service assistance engine.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first and second services comprises at least one of a search service, an automated chat service, and a human-assisted chat service.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the historical interaction information comprises at least one of the following: input information provided by the first user to the second entity; time allocation of the first user in browsing different portions of output information provided by the second entity; a speed of the first user in browsing a portion of the output information provided by the second entity; and at least one operation performed by the first user on a part of the output information provided by the second entity.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to detecting that the second service is provisioned to the first user, determining, by the one or more processors, whether the first user preference data is created for the first user; in response to the first user preference data not being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be created based on the historical interaction information collected during the provisioning of the second service; in response to the first user preference data being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be updated based on the historical interaction information; and storing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data in association with an identifier of the first user.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in providing customized output information for the first user based on the first user preference data, as a response to the request.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first service comprises a plurality of service channels related to different service domains, and wherein the provisioning the instantiation of the first service comprises: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in directing the request to one of the plurality of the service channels.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user preference data further comprises an input information provided by the first user to the second entity including at least a subject area related to the input information in which the first user is interested.
8. A computer system comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, wherein the computer system is capable of performing a method comprising: receiving, by a first entity, a request initiated by a device of a first user for a first service to be provisioned by the first entity; detecting, by a service assistance engine, the request initiation from the device, the service assistance engine being communicatively connected to the device and communicatively connected to the first entity; responsive to detecting the request, deriving first user preference data based, at least in part, on a historical interaction information of the first user with a second entity provisioning a second service, the historical interaction information being analyzed by the service assistance engine to derive the first user preference data, wherein the second entity is communicatively connected to the service assistance engine; responsive to receiving the request, provisioning an instantiation of the first service, by the first entity, in a manner that is based, at least in part, on the first user preference data; and storing the first user preference data as a profile for the first user in a database accessible by the service assistance engine.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the first and second services comprises at least one of a search service, an automated chat service, and a human-assisted chat service.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the historical interaction information comprises at least one of the following: input information provided by the first user to the second entity; time allocation of the first user in browsing different portions of output information provided by the second entity; a speed of the first user in browsing a portion of the output information provided by the second entity; and at least one operation performed by the first user on a part of the output information provided by the second entity.
11. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: responsive to detecting that the second service is provisioned to the first user, determining, by the one or more processors, whether the first user preference data is created for the first user; in response to the first user preference data not being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be created based on the historical interaction information collected during the provisioning of the second service; in response to the first user preference data being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be updated based on the historical interaction information; and storing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data in association with an identifier of the first user.
12. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in providing customized output information for the first user based on the first user preference data, as a response to the request.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the first service comprises a plurality of service channels related to different service domains, and wherein the provisioning the instantiation of the first service comprises: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in directing the request to one of the plurality of the service channels.
14. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the first user preference data further comprises an input information provided by the first user to the second entity including at least a subject area related to the input information in which the first user is interested.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable non-transitory article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which, when executed, cause a computer to carry out a method comprising: receiving, by a first entity, a request initiated by a device of a first user for a first service to be provisioned by the first entity; detecting, by a service assistance engine, the request initiation from the device, the service assistance engine being communicatively connected to the device and communicatively connected to the first entity; responsive to detecting the request, deriving first user preference data based, at least in part, on a historical interaction information of the first user with a second entity provisioning a second service, the historical interaction information being analyzed by the service assistance engine to derive the first user preference data, wherein the second entity is communicatively connected to the service assistance engine; responsive to receiving the request, provisioning an instantiation of the first service, by the first entity, in a manner that is based, at least in part, on the first user preference data; and storing the first user preference data as a profile for the first user in a database accessible by the service assistance engine.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the first and second services comprises at least one of a search service, an automated chat service, and a human-assisted chat service.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the historical interaction information comprises at least one of the following: input information provided by the first user to the second entity; time allocation of the first user in browsing different portions of output information provided by the second entity; a speed of the first user in browsing a portion of the output information provided by the second entity; and at least one operation performed by the first user on a part of the output information provided by the second entity.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: responsive to detecting that the second service is provisioned to the first user, determining, by one or more processors, whether the first user preference data is created for the first user; in response to the first user preference data not being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be created based on the historical interaction information collected during the provisioning of the second service; in response to the first user preference data being created, instructing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data to be updated based on the historical interaction information; and storing, by the one or more processors, the first user preference data in association with an identifier of the first user.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in providing customized output information for the first user based on the first user preference data, as a response to the request.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the first service comprises a plurality of service channels related to different service domains, and wherein the provisioning the instantiation of the first service comprises: providing, by one or more processors, the first user preference data to assist the first entity in directing the request to one of the plurality of the service channels.
</claims>
</document>
