<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULKARNI, SWAPNIL SANJAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69639949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Ranking Entity Based Search Results Using User Clusters
</title>

<abstract>
A system stores records of different entity types and processes search queries to determine search results comprising records that match the search query. The system determines clusters of users based on feature vectors describing the users. A feature vector may be extracted from a hidden layer of a neural network. The system identifies a user that provided a search query and identifies a cluster of users matching the user. The system retrieves a set of weights for the cluster of users and uses the set of weights to rank the search results. The set of weights may represent relevance scores corresponding to various entity types. The system returns the ranked search results.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer implemented method for ranking search results, the method comprising: receiving, by an online system, a search query via a session created by a user via a client device, the search query requesting matching records, wherein each record has one of a plurality of entity types; determining a plurality of search results matching the search query, each search result associated with a record, wherein the online system stores records, each record having an entity type; identifying a user profile describing the user that created the session; determining a feature vector based on the user profile of the user, the feature vector comprising a plurality of features, each feature representing a dimension from a plurality of dimensions; comparing the feature vector with each of a plurality of clusters of user profiles, wherein a cluster of user profiles represents similar users based on a matching along the plurality of dimensions; selecting based on the comparison, a cluster of users matching the feature vector of the user profile; accessing a set of weights associated with the selected cluster of user profiles; ranking the plurality of search results based on the set of weights; and returning one or more ranked search results for display via the client device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the feature vector comprises extracting the feature vector from a hidden layer of a neural network, the neural network configured to receive an encoding of a given user profile.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network is configured to generate a score indicative of a likelihood of a user having the given user profile interacting with an entity of a particular entity type.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network is trained using past user interactions of users with records of a particular entity type responsive to the user being presented with a plurality of records of various entity types.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network is trained to receive an encoding of an input user profile and an encoding of an input search query and determine a likelihood of the user having the given user profile interacting with a search result of a particular entity type responsive to being presented with a plurality of search results, each search result corresponding to an entity type.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dimensions comprise one or more dimensions, each of the one or more dimensions representing a user profile attribute.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dimensions comprise a dimension representing a rate of user interactions by the user with records of a particular entity type.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of dimensions comprise a dimension representing a role of the user in an organization.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting feature vectors for a plurality of users; clustering the feature vectors to generate a plurality of clusters, each cluster representing users that have similar feature vectors; for each cluster, determining a set of weights for ranking records of various entity types; and storing the set of weights for each of the plurality of clusters of users.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each cluster of users is associated with a centroid of feature vectors of the users of the cluster, wherein selecting the cluster of users matching the feature vector of the user profile comprises comparing distances between the feature vector of the user profile and each of the centroids of feature vectors corresponding to the plurality of clusters and selecting the cluster with the smallest distance.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of weights comprise weights representing relevance scores for entity types, the relevance score for a particular entity type indicative of a likelihood of a user interacting with a record of the particular entity type.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of weights represent a machine learning model for ranking search results returned by an input search query.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer program instructions executable by a processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an online system, a search query via a session created by a user via a client device, the search query requesting matching records, wherein each record has one of a plurality of entity types; determining a plurality of search results matching the search query, each search result associated with a record, wherein the online system stores records, each record having an entity type; identifying a user profile describing the user that created the session; determining a feature vector based on the user profile of the user, the feature vector comprising a plurality of features, each feature representing a dimension from a plurality of dimensions; comparing the feature vector with each of a plurality of clusters of user profiles, wherein a cluster of user profiles represents similar users based on a matching along the plurality of dimensions; selecting based on the comparison, a cluster of users matching the feature vector of the user profile; accessing a set of weights associated with the selected cluster of user profiles; ranking the plurality of search results based on the set of weights; and returning one or more ranked search results for display via the client device.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 1, wherein determining the feature vector comprises extracting the feature vector from a hidden layer of a neural network, the neural network configured to receive an encoding of a given user profile.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the neural network is configured to generate a score indicative of a likelihood of a user having the given user profile interacting with an entity of a particular entity type.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the neural network is trained to receive an encoding of an input user profile and an encoding of an input search query and determine a likelihood of the user having the given user profile interacting with a search result of a particular entity type responsive to being presented with a plurality of search results, each search result corresponding to an entity type.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein each cluster of users is associated with a centroid of feature vectors of the users of the cluster, wherein selecting the cluster of users matching the feature vector of the user profile comprises comparing distances between the feature vector of the user profile and each of the centroids of feature vectors corresponding to the plurality of clusters and selecting the cluster with the smallest distance.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the set of weights comprise weights representing relevance scores for entity types, the relevance score for a particular entity type indicative of a likelihood of a user interacting with a record of the particular entity type.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the operations further comprising: extracting feature vectors for a plurality of users; clustering the feature vectors to generate a plurality of clusters, each cluster representing users that have similar feature vectors; for each cluster, determining a set of weights for ranking records of various entity types; and storing the set of weights for each of the plurality of clusters of users.
20. A computer system comprising: one or more electronic processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer program instructions executable by a processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an online system, a search query via a session created by a user via a client device, the search query requesting matching records, wherein each record has one of a plurality of entity types; determining a plurality of search results matching the search query, each search result associated with a record, wherein the online system stores records, each record having an entity type; identifying a user profile describing the user that created the session; determining a feature vector based on the user profile of the user, the feature vector comprising a plurality of features, each feature representing a dimension from a plurality of dimensions; comparing the feature vector with each of a plurality of clusters of user profiles, wherein a cluster of user profiles represents similar users based on a matching along the plurality of dimensions; selecting based on the comparison, a cluster of users matching the feature vector of the user profile; accessing a set of weights associated with the selected cluster of user profiles; ranking the plurality of search results based on the set of weights; and returning one or more ranked search results for display via the client device.
</claims>
</document>
