<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01J37/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DIRECT ELECTRON
</assignee>

<inventors>
BILHORN, ROBERT
BAMMES, Benjamin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72829513
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, APPARATUS, AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING ELEMENTAL COMPOSITION USING 4D STEM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to transmission electron microscopy for evaluation of biological matter. According to an embodiment, the present disclosure further relates to an apparatus for determining the structure and/or elemental composition of a sample using 4D STEM, comprising a direct bombardment detector operating with global shutter readout, processing circuitry configured to acquire images of bright-field disks using either a contiguous array or non-contiguous array of detector pixel elements, correct distortions in the images, align each image of the images based on a centroid of the bright-field disk, calculate a radial profile of the images, normalize the radial profiles by a scaling factor, calculate the rotationally-averaged edge profile of the bright-field disk, and determine elemental composition within the specimen based on the characteristics of the edge profile of the bright-field disk corresponding to each specimen location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining material properties of a sample using 4D STEM, comprising: directing an electron beam from an electron source toward the sample; detecting electrons of the electron beam interacting with the sample via an electron detector including an array of detector elements; acquiring, from the electron detector, images of bright-field disks and surrounding dark-field diffraction based on the detected electrons; and determining an elemental composition of the sample based on the acquired images of the bright-field disks and the surrounding dark-field diffractions.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: correcting distortions in the acquired images.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the determining of the elemental composition of the sample based on the acquired images of the bright-field disks and the surrounding dark-field diffractions further comprises: calculating a radial profile of the distortion-corrected acquired images; normalizing the radial profile by a scaling factor; determining a shape of the radial profile at an edge of the bright-field disks; and determining the elemental composition based on the shape of the radial profile at the edge of the bright-field disks.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the distortions in the acquired images are geometric and the correcting of the geometric distortions includes fitting an ellipse to the bright-field disks.
5. The method according to claim 3, wherein the radial profile is normalized based on an average intensity of the bright-field disks.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the detecting detects the electrons using the electron detector in a global shutter readout mode, and synchronizes each acquired image from the electron detector with a movement of a probe directing the electron beam.
7. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: aligning each image of the images of the bright-field disks with one another based on a center of each of the bright-field disks.
8. The method according to claim 3, where the shape of the radial profile corresponds to a slope of the radial profile for a transition between areas of the bright-field disks and the surrounding dark-field diffractions.
9. A method for compressive readout using an electron microscope, comprising: generating a row address table including a first set of a truncated number of row addresses and a frame height, the truncated number of the row addresses being fewer than a possible maximum number of row addresses in the frame height; transmitting each row address of the truncated number of row addresses in the row address table to a controller, the controller configured to control an electron source to direct a beam of electrons onto a sample and read out charge from an electron detector including an array of detector elements, the electron detector configured to detect electrons of the electron beam; controlling the controller to read out along the transmitted row addresses; determining whether a last row address in the row address table has been read out; upon determining that the last row address in the row address table has not been read out, incrementing a pointer to a next row address in the row address table and controlling the controller to read out along the next row address; and repeating the controlling and determining until the last row address in the row address table has been scanned.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the truncated number of row addresses in the row address table is truncated from the possible maximum number of row addresses in the frame height by skipping a randomized selection of row addresses.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the truncated number of row addresses in the row address table is truncated from the possible maximum number of row addresses in the frame height by skipping a periodic selection of row addresses.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the generating of the row address table includes generating a second set of the truncated number of row addresses, the second set of the truncated number of row addresses being included in the row address table following the first set of the truncated number of row addresses, at least one row address of the second set of the truncated number of row addresses being different from the row addresses of the first set of the truncated number of row addresses.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: acquiring, from the electron detector, a first image based on the truncated number of row addresses read out from the electron detector; and generating a second image, the second image being an expanded reconstruction based on the first image.
14. A system for determining material properties of a sample, comprising: an electron detector including an array of detector elements configured to convert charges from impinging electrons to an electronic signal; and processing circuitry configured to read out the electronic signal from each detector element of the array of detector elements in a global shutter mode.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the electron detector is a direct electron detector configured to directly convert the charges from the impinging electrons to the electronic signal.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein a volume ratio of a first depletion region associated with charge integration is greater than 200 times that of a second depletion region associated with a sense node.
17. The system according to claim 15, wherein an area of a sense node is 5% or less than an area of a charge integration region.
18. The system according to claim 14, wherein the array of detector elements is positioned so that a front side of the array of detector elements detects the impinging electrons.
19. The system according to claim 14, wherein the electron detector is a hybrid pixel active pixel sensor.
20. The system according to claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to exclude a predetermined number of row addresses during read out of the electronic signal from each detector element of the array of detector elements in the global shutter mode.
</claims>
</document>
