<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T5/00,G06T5/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU, LIYU
QUE, Bujun
LUO, Lijun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67547901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD AND RELATED DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing method and a related device are provided to obtain a target image wherein texture of the obtained image is clearer, the image processing method includes: obtaining a visible light image and an infrared light image; obtaining first luminance information of the visible light image and second luminance information of the infrared light image; fusing the first luminance information and the second luminance information, to obtain a contrast fusion image; obtaining first texture information of the visible light image and second texture information of the infrared light image; fusing the first texture information, the second texture information, and the contrast fusion image, to obtain a texture fusion image; obtaining a color fusion image based on the visible light image and the infrared light image; and fusing the texture fusion image and the color fusion image, to obtain a target image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing method, comprising: obtaining a visible light image and an infrared light image; obtaining first luminance information and second luminance information, wherein the first luminance information is luminance information of the visible light image, and the second luminance information is luminance information of the infrared light image; fusing the first luminance information and the second luminance information, to obtain a contrast fusion image; obtaining first texture information and second texture information, wherein the first texture information is texture information of the visible light image, and the second texture information is texture information of the infrared light image; fusing the first texture information, the second texture information, and the contrast fusion image, to obtain a texture fusion image; obtaining a color fusion image based on the visible light image and the infrared light image; and fusing the texture fusion image and the color fusion image, to obtain a target image.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining a color fusion image based on the visible light image and the infrared light image comprises: performing color perception restoration on the visible light image, to obtain a color perception restoration image; performing color inference on the infrared light image based on a preset color correspondence, to obtain a color inference image; and fusing the color perception restoration image and the color inference image, to obtain the color fusion image.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the performing color inference on the infrared light image based on a preset color correspondence comprises: determining a proportion of a color component of the infrared light image based on the preset color correspondence; and determining a target color based on the proportion of the color component in a preset calculation manner, to obtain the color inference image.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the performing color perception restoration on the visible light image comprises: inverting luminance of the visible light image, to obtain a luminance inversion image; calculating the luminance inversion image based on a defogging algorithm, to obtain an enhanced image of enhanced luminance and an enhanced color; and inverting the enhanced image, to obtain the color perception restoration image.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the fusing the first luminance information and the second luminance information comprises: calculating the first luminance information and the second luminance information by using a preset first formula, to obtain a target luminance value; and obtaining the contrast fusion image based on the target luminance value.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the fusing the first texture information, the second texture information, and the contrast fusion image comprises: calculating the first texture information and the second texture information by using a preset second formula, to obtain a target texture pixel value; and superimposing the target texture pixel value to the contrast fusion image, to obtain the texture fusion image.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the fusing the texture fusion image and the color fusion image comprises: fusing luminance information of the texture fusion image and a color component in the color fusion image, to obtain the target image.
8. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: obtaining a visible light image and an infrared light image; obtaining first luminance information and second luminance information, wherein the first luminance information is luminance information of the visible light image, and the second luminance information is luminance information of the infrared light image; fusing the first luminance information and the second luminance information, to obtain a contrast fusion image; obtaining first texture information and second texture information, wherein the first texture information is texture information of the visible light image, and the second texture information is texture information of the infrared light image; fusing the first texture information, the second texture information, and the contrast fusion image, to obtain a texture fusion image; obtaining a color fusion image based on the visible light image and the infrared light image; and fusing the texture fusion image and the color fusion image, to obtain a target image.
9. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: performing color perception restoration on the visible light image, to obtain a color perception restoration image; performing color inference on the infrared light image based on a preset color correspondence, to obtain a color inference image; and fusing the color perception restoration image and the color inference image, to obtain the color fusion image.
10. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a proportion of a color component of the infrared light image based on the preset color correspondence; and determining a target color based on the proportion of the color component in a preset calculation manner, to obtain the color inference image.
11. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: inverting luminance of the visible light image, to obtain a luminance inversion image; calculating the luminance inversion image based on a defogging algorithm, to obtain an enhanced image of enhanced luminance and an enhanced color; and inverting the enhanced image, to obtain the color perception restoration image.
12. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating the first luminance information and the second luminance information by using a preset first formula, to obtain a target luminance value; and obtaining the contrast fusion image based on the target luminance value.
13. The computer readable storage medium according to claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating the first texture information and the second texture information by using a preset second formula, to obtain a target texture pixel value; and superimposing the target texture pixel value to the contrast fusion image, to obtain the texture fusion image.
14. An image shooting apparatus, comprising: at least one lens, a memory, and an input/output interface, wherein the memory stores program code; and the processor is connected to the at least one lens, the memory and the input/output interface, and is configured to, by executing the stored program code: obtain, using the at least one lens and in accordance with input received from the input/output interface, a visible light image and an infrared light image; obtain first luminance information and second luminance information, wherein the first luminance information is luminance information of the visible light image, and the second luminance information is luminance information of the infrared light image; fuse the first luminance information and the second luminance information, to obtain a contrast fusion image; obtain first texture information and second texture information, wherein the first texture information is texture information of the visible light image, and the second texture information is texture information of the infrared light image; fuse the first texture information, the second texture information, and the contrast fusion image, to obtain a texture fusion image; obtain a color fusion image based on the visible light image and the infrared light image; and fuse the texture fusion image and the color fusion image, to obtain a target image.
15. The apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform color perception restoration on the visible light image, to obtain a color perception restoration image; perform color inference on the infrared light image based on a preset color correspondence, to obtain a color inference image; and fuse the color perception restoration image and the color inference image, to obtain the color fusion image.
16. The apparatus accord to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: invert luminance of the visible light image, to obtain a luminance inversion image; calculate the luminance inversion image based on a defog algorithm, to obtain an enhanced image of enhanced luminance and an enhanced color; and invert the enhanced image, to obtain the color perception restoration image.
17. The system according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: calculate the first luminance information and the second luminance information by use a preset first formula, to obtain a target luminance value; and obtain the contrast fusion image based on the target luminance value.
18. The system according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: calculate the first texture information and the second texture information by use a preset second formula, to obtain a target texture pixel value; and superimpose the target texture pixel value to the contrast fusion image, to obtain the texture fusion image.
19. The system according to claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a proportion of a color component of the infrared light image based on the preset color correspondence; and determine a target color based on the proportion of the color component in a preset calculation manner, to obtain the color inference image.
</claims>
</document>
