<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06Q30/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
GOODSITT, JEREMY EDWARD
WALTERS, AUSTIN GRANT
SEATON, ROBERT P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Chat bot utilizing metaphors to both relay and obtain information
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques to enable a chat bot system to use metaphors during an interaction with a user are provided. Identification information for the user can be received and can be used to determine a customer group assigned to the user. An initial state of a sequence for resolving an issue of the user can be determined, with the sequence for resolving the issue of the user including a final state wherein the issue of the user is resolved. A metaphor can be selected to include in a question based on the determined customer group assigned to the customer and the determined initial state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer. The question can request information from the user relating to the issue of the user. The question can be generated to include the selected metaphor and then provided to the user with a prompt to provide a response.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a storage device; and logic, at least a portion of the logic implemented in circuitry coupled to the storage device, the logic to: receive identification information for a customer through a user interface of a computing device; determine a customer group assigned to the customer and stored in the storage device based on the received identification information for the customer; determine an initial state of a sequence for resolving an issue of the customer, the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer including a final state wherein the issue of the customer is resolved; select a metaphor stored in the storage device to include in a question based on the determined customer group assigned to the customer and the determined initial state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer, the question requesting information from the customer relating to the issue of the customer; generate the question, the question to include the selected metaphor; provide the question including the selected metaphor to the customer and prompt the customer to respond to the provided question, the question provided through at least one of an electronic audio device and a display of the computing device; receive a response to the provided question from the customer; determine if the received response includes responsive information to advance the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to a next state, the next state sequentially closer to the final state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer; in response to determining the received response includes responsive information to advance the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state, increase a value associated with the selected metaphor, the value representing a likelihood of the selected metaphor for advancing the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state; and in response to determining the received response does not include responsive information to advance the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state, decrease the value associated with the selected metaphor.
2. (canceled)
3. (canceled)
4. (canceled)
5. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to select the metaphor from a plurality of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor assigned a corresponding value representing a likelihood of advancing the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, the selected metaphor having a highest assigned value of the plurality of candidate metaphors.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to assign the customer to the customer group based on at least one of demographic information of the customer, an education level of the customer, and a prior interaction with the customer.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to present the question to the customer in a textual message on the display of the computing device.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic to present the question to the customer in an auditory message through the electronic audio device.
10. A method, comprising: receiving identification information for a customer; determining a customer group assigned to the customer based on the received identification information for the customer; determining an initial state of a sequence for resolving an issue of the customer, the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer including a final state wherein the issue of the customer is resolved; determining a metaphor to include in a question based on the determined customer group assigned to the customer and the determined initial state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer, the question requesting information from the customer relating to the issue of the customer; generating the question, the question to include the determined metaphor; providing the question including the determined metaphor to the customer; requesting the customer to respond to the presented question; receiving a response from the customer to the provided question; determining if the received response includes responsive information to advance the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to a next state, the next state sequentially closer to the final state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer; in response to determining the received response includes the responsive information, increasing a stored value corresponding to the determined metaphor, the stored value representing a likelihood of the selected metaphor for advancing the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state; and in response to determining the received response does not include the responsive information decreasing the stored value.
11. (canceled)
12. (canceled)
13. (canceled)
14. (canceled)
15. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining the metaphor from a plurality of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor assigned a value representing a likelihood of the candidate metaphor for advancing the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer from the determined initial state to the next state.
16. The method of claim 15, the determined metaphor having a highest assigned value of the plurality of candidate metaphors.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising a set of instructions that, in response to being executed on a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive identification information for a customer; determine a customer group assigned to the customer based on the received identification information for the customer; determine an initial state of a sequence for resolving an issue of the customer, the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer including a final state wherein the issue of the customer is resolved; select a metaphor to include in a question based on the determined customer group assigned to the customer and the determined initial state of the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer, the question requesting information from the customer relating to the issue of the customer, wherein the metaphor is selected from a set of candidate metaphors, each candidate metaphor corresponding to a stored value representing a likelihood for advancing the sequence for resolving the issue of the customer to a next state sequentially closer to the final state, the selected metaphor having the largest stored value of the set of candidate metaphors; generate the question, the question to include the selected metaphor; and provide the question including the selected metaphor to the customer and prompt the customer to respond to the provided question.
18. (canceled)
19. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing device to present the question to the customer in a textual message.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the computing device to present the question to the customer in an auditory message.
</claims>
</document>
