<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOYER, WESLEY
Baker, JR., Thomas M.
Barnes, David Jared
Guiliani, Rossi
Romanak, Mark
McKay, Jeremy
Kac, Aleksei Maximillian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72916788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and Systems for Merging Point-of-Interest Datasets
</title>

<abstract>
An exemplary point-of-interest merging system accesses point-of-interest data records. Each point-of-interest data record includes data representative of a distinct set of features for a distinct point-of-interest. The merging system generates, based on the distinct sets of features of the point-of-interest data records, a graph data structure that includes the point-of-interest data records and weighted feature relationships interconnecting the point-of-interest data records. The merging system clusters, based on the graph data structure, the point-of-interest data records into subset groups of point-of-interest data records. The merging system generates one or more merged point-of-interest data records based on the clustered subset groups of point-of-interest data records.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accessing, by a computing system, a plurality of point-of-interest data records, each of the plurality of point-of-interest data records including data representative of a distinct set of features for a distinct point-of-interest; generating, by the computing system based on the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records, a graph data structure that includes the plurality of point-of-interest data records and a plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records; clustering, by the computing system based on the graph data structure, the plurality of point-of-interest data records into groups of point-of-interest data records, each group of point-of-interest data records including a different subset of the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and generating, by the computing system, one or more merged point-of-interest data records based on the clustered groups of point-of-interest data records.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing, by the computing system, the one or more merged point-of-interest data records to a computer-implemented mapping system for use by the computer-implemented mapping system to indicate one or more points-of-interest on a user interface map of a geographic area.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the graph data structure comprises: comparing the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records to one another; and generating the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records based on the comparing.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering of the plurality of point-of-interest data records into the groups of point-of-interest data records comprises: determining, based on the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records, strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and defining the groups of point-of-interest data records based on the strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the distinct set of features for a point-of-interest data record of the plurality of point-of-interest data records comprises at least two of: a point-of-interest name; a point-of-interest phone number; a point-of-interest website; a point-of-interest email address; a point-of-interest street address; and a point-of-interest category.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: accessing, by the computing system, a plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources; and batching, by the computing system and from the plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources, the plurality of point-of-interest data records together based on similarity between a feature included in the set of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the feature on which the batching is based comprises at least one of a point-of-interest name and a point-of-interest geographic location.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the point-of-interest geographic location comprises at least one of a point-of-interest street address and a point-of-interest postal code.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the generating of the graph data structure based on the plurality of point-of-interest data records comprises associating a tag with each weighted feature relationship of the plurality of weighted feature relationships, the tag indicating the feature based upon which the plurality of point-of-interest data records are batched.
10. A system comprising: a memory storing instructions; a processor communicatively coupled to the memory and configured to execute the instructions to: access a plurality of point-of-interest data records, each of the plurality of point-of-interest data records including data representative of a distinct set of features for a distinct point-of-interest; generate, based on the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records, a graph data structure that includes the plurality of point-of-interest data records and a plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records; cluster, based on the graph data structure, the plurality of point-of-interest data records into groups of point-of-interest data records, each group of point-of-interest data records including a different subset of the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and generate one or more merged point-of-interest data records based on the clustered groups of point-of-interest data records.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to provide the one or more merged point-of-interest data records to a computer-implemented mapping system for use by the computer-implemented mapping system to indicate one or more points-of-interest on a user interface map of a geographic area.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the generating of the graph data structure comprises: comparing the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records to one another; and generating the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records based on the comparing.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the clustering of the plurality of point-of-interest data records into the groups of point-of-interest data records comprises: determining, based on the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records, strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and defining the groups of point-of-interest data records based on the strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to execute the instructions to: access a plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources; and batch, from the plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources, the plurality of point-of-interest data records together based on similarity between a feature included in the set of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the generating of the graph data structure based on the plurality of point-of-interest data records comprises associating a tag with each weighted feature relationship of the plurality of weighted feature relationships, the tag indicating the feature based upon which the plurality of point-of-interest data records are batched.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed, direct at least one processor of a computing device to: access a plurality of point-of-interest data records, each of the plurality of point-of-interest data records including data representative of a distinct set of features for a distinct point-of-interest; generate, based on the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records, a graph data structure that includes the plurality of point-of-interest data records and a plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records; cluster, based on the graph data structure, the plurality of point-of-interest data records into groups of point-of-interest data records, each group of point-of-interest data records including a different subset of the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and generate one or more merged point-of-interest data records based on the clustered groups of point-of-interest data records.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, the computer-readable medium further storing instructions that, when executed, further direct the at least one processor of the computing device to provide the one or more merged point-of-interest data records to a computer-implemented mapping system for use by the computer-implemented mapping system to indicate one or more points-of-interest on a user interface map of a geographic area.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the generating of the graph data structure comprises: comparing the distinct sets of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records to one another; and generating the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records based on the comparing.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the clustering of the plurality of point-of-interest data records into the groups of point-of-interest data records comprises: determining, based on the plurality of weighted feature relationships interconnecting the plurality of point-of-interest data records, strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records; and defining the groups of point-of-interest data records based on the strengths of relationships between the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, the computer-readable medium further storing instructions that, when executed, further direct the at least one processor of the computing device to: access a plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources; and batch, from the plurality of point-of-interest datasets from different sources, the plurality of point-of-interest data records together based on similarity between a feature included in the set of features of the plurality of point-of-interest data records.
</claims>
</document>
