<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GUANGDONG OPPO MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, YAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64086356
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR IMAGE PROCESSING, ELECTRONIC DEVICE, AND COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for image processing of an electronic device is provided. The method includes the following. Scene detection is performed, with a processor of the electronic device, on an image to-be-captured to obtain at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured. A shutter priority mode is activated with the processor of the electronic device when the at least one scene label includes a preset label, where the preset label corresponds to a dynamic scene. A shutter speed is acquired with the processor of the electronic device, and the image to-be-captured is captured with an imaging device of the electronic device according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for image processing of an electronic device, comprising: performing, with a processor of the electronic device, scene detection on an image to-be-captured to obtain at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured; activating, with the processor of the electronic device, a shutter priority mode when the at least one scene label comprises a preset label, wherein the preset label corresponds to a dynamic scene; and acquiring, with the processor of the electronic device, a shutter speed, and capturing, with an imaging device of the electronic device, the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain the at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured comprises: performing scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain a plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain the plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured comprises: inputting the image to-be-captured into a neural network; performing scene detection on the image to-be-captured through the neural network to obtain a scene classification label to which a background of the image to-be-captured belongs; performing object detection network on the image to-be-captured through the neural network to obtain an object classification label to which a foreground of the image to-be-captured belongs; and using the scene classification label and the object classification label as the plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein activating the shutter priority mode when the at least one scene label comprises the preset label comprises: acquiring a label region corresponding to the preset label when the plurality of scene labels comprise the preset label; and activating the shutter priority mode when a ratio of an area of the label region corresponding to the preset label to an area of the image to-be-captured exceeds a threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed comprises: acquiring a label region corresponding to the preset label of the image to-be-captured; and focusing on the label region corresponding to the preset label, and capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed comprises: acquiring a label region with a maximum area of the image to-be-captured; and focusing on the label region with the maximum area, and capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed comprises: acquiring a label region corresponding to the preset label of the image to-be-captured; focusing on an eye in the label region corresponding to the preset label when the label region corresponding to the preset label is detected through key points to contain the eye; and capturing the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamic scene is a scene containing an object with a high moving speed.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein acquiring the shutter speed comprises: acquiring the shutter speed corresponding to the preset label comprised in the at least one scene label according to preset shutter speeds corresponding to different preset labels.
10. An electronic device, comprising: an imaging device; at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage, coupled to the at least one processor and storing at least one computer executable instruction thereon which, when executed by the at least one processor, causes the at least one processor to: perform scene detection on an image to-be-captured to obtain at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured; activate a shutter priority mode when the at least one scene label comprises a preset label, wherein the preset label corresponds to a dynamic scene; acquire a shutter speed; and invoke the imaging device to capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor configured to perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain the at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured is configured to: perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain a plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor configured to perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain the plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured is configured to: input the image to-be-captured into a neural network; perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured through the neural network to obtain a scene classification label to which a background of the image to-be-captured belongs; perform object detection network on the image to-be-captured through the neural network to obtain an object classification label to which a foreground of the image to-be-captured belongs; and use the scene classification label and the object classification label as the plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor configured to activate the shutter priority mode when the at least one scene label comprises the preset label is configured to: acquire a label region corresponding to the preset label when the plurality of scene labels comprise the preset label; and activate the shutter priority mode when a ratio of an area of the label region corresponding to the preset label to an area of the image to-be-captured exceeds a threshold.
14. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the imaging device invoked by the at least one processor to capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed is configured to: acquire a label region corresponding to the preset label of the image to-be-captured; and focus on the label region corresponding to the preset label, and capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
15. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the imaging device invoked by the at least one processor to capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed is configured to: acquire a label region with a maximum area of the image to-be-captured; and focus on the label region with the maximum area, and capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
16. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the imaging device invoked by the at least one processor to capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed is configured to: acquire a label region corresponding to the preset label of the image to-be-captured; focus on an eye in the label region corresponding to the preset label when the label region corresponding to the preset label is detected through key points to contain the eye; and capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed after focusing.
17. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the dynamic scene is a scene containing an object with a high moving speed.
18. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor configured to acquire the shutter speed is configured to: acquire the shutter speed corresponding to the preset label comprised in the at least one scene label according to preset shutter speeds corresponding to different preset labels.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing a computer program which, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: perform scene detection on an image to-be-captured to obtain at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured; activate a shutter priority mode when the at least one scene label comprises a preset label, wherein the preset label corresponds to a dynamic scene; and acquire a shutter speed, and capture the image to-be-captured according to the shutter priority mode and the shutter speed.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the computer program executed by the processor to perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain the at least one scene label of the image to-be-captured is executed by the processor to perform scene detection on the image to-be-captured to obtain a plurality of scene labels of the image to-be-captured.
</claims>
</document>
