<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAS, MINI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62567827
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS USING TEXTURE PARAMETERS TO PREDICT HUMAN INTERPRETATION OF IMAGES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for using texture parameters to predict human interpretation of images to design, modify, or optimize an imaging system or an imaging process. According to embodiments, a method includes receiving image data; calculating one or more texture parameters based on the image data; and predicting performance of a human observer in detecting a signal or object in the image data obtained by the imaging system or processed by the imaging process based on the one or more texture parameters. The method may include designing, optimizing, or modifying parameters of the imaging system or the imaging process based on the predicted performance of a human observer or interpreter in detecting the signal or object in the image data. The method may include assigning weights to two or more texture parameters based on a given detection task, such as detecting explosives in luggage or finding a tumor in tomographic images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving at least one image; calculating one or more texture parameters based on the at least one image; and predicting performance of a human observer in detecting a signal or an object in the at least one image obtained by an imaging system or processed by an imaging process based on the one or more texture parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more texture parameters are one or more of correlation, homogeneity, energy, entropy, contrast, coarseness, busyness, complexity, short runs emphasis, long runs emphasis, gray level nonuniformity, run length nonuniformity, or run percentage.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a region of interest (ROI) within the at least one image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one image is a simulated image of a patient, a clinical image of a patient, a simulated image acquired by an airport scanner, an actual image acquired by an airport scanner, a tomographic image, a projection image as used in mammography, or a microscopic image.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: developing, modifying, or optimizing a machine learning algorithm used in the imaging system, the imaging process, or other image interpretation device based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; developing, modifying, or optimizing a computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) engine based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; developing, modifying, or optimizing a search engine based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; developing, modifying, or optimizing a model for human observers based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; developing, modifying, or optimizing a visual search model based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; developing, modifying, or optimizing a method or process of forming digital pathological images or microscopic images based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer; or developing, modifying, or optimizing psychophysical models for search and detection by humans based on the predicted detection performance of the human observer.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising assigning a weight to each of two or more texture parameters based on a detection task.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the detection task is detecting explosives in bags or packages, finding a high or low contrast signal in a dense or turbulent atmosphere, finding a signal having high or low spatial frequency, internally inspecting a component, detecting flaws in a product, or finding a mass or calcification in body tissue, a blood vessel, or an organ.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging system is an X-ray system, an optical system, an ultrasound system, a three-dimensional ultrasound system, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) system, a planar imaging system, a tomographic imaging system, a computed tomography system, a photon-counting computer tomography system, a digital breast tomosynthesis (DBT) system, a photoacoustic or optoacoustic imaging system, a magnetic particle imaging system, a terahertz wave imaging system, a millimeter wave imaging system, an emission computer tomography (ECT) system, a positron emission tomography (PET) system, a single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) system, or any combination of two or more of these imaging systems.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the imaging process is a process performed by the imaging system.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising designing, modifying, or optimizing parameters or structures of the imaging system or the imaging process based on the predicted performance of a human observer to detect a signal or an object in the at least one image.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging process is an image filter, an image processing algorithm, a planar imaging process, a tomographic imaging process, a partial-angle tomographic imaging process, a scatter-imaging process, an image acquisition process, or an image reconstruction process.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging process is a new or modified imaging software application that performs an image acquisition process and/or an image reconstruction process for an existing imaging system.
13. A system, comprising: an imaging system; a processor; and a memory having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive image data from the imaging system; calculate one or more texture parameters based on the received image data; and predict performance of an average human observer in detecting a signal or an object in the image data received from the imaging system or processed by an imaging process based on the one or more texture parameters.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to design, modify, or optimize parameters or structures of the imaging system or the imaging process based on the predicted performance of a human observer to detect a signal or an object in the image data.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to assign weights to two or more texture parameters based on a detection task.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the imaging process is a new or modified software application that performs an image acquisition process or a reconstruction process to be executed on the imaging system, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine whether the predicted performance is greater than a predetermined threshold; and if it is determined that the predicted performance is not greater than the predetermined threshold, modify the software application or parameters or settings of the software application based on the predicted performance.
17. A computer system, comprising: a processor; and a memory having stored thereon instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive image data from an imaging system; calculate one or more texture parameters based on the received image data; and predict performance of an average human observer in detecting a signal or an object in the image data received from the imaging system or processed by an imaging process based on the one or more texture parameters.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to design, modify, or optimize a parameter or structure of the imaging system or the imaging process based on the predicted performance of a human observer to detect a signal or an object in the image data.
19. The computer system of claim 18, wherein the structure is defined by image acquisition geometry.
20. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to assign weights to two or more texture parameters based on a detection task.
21. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the imaging process is an image filter, an image processing algorithm, a planar imaging process, a tomographic imaging process, or a partial-angle tomographic imaging process, a scatter-imaging process, an image acquisition method, or an image reconstruction method.
</claims>
</document>
