<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/20,G06N3/02,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUADRUS MEDICAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHBAT, NICOLAS WADIH
CHIOFOLO, CAITLYN, MARIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71518023
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ASSESSING AND EVALUATING RENAL HEALTH DIAGNOSIS, STAGING, AND THERAPY RECOMMENDATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system for assessing kidney health includes a processing device including an input module configured to receive input values related to kidney function of a patient, and a prediction module having a computation algorithm and/or a model configured to predict a kidney condition and calculate a kidney health score related to at least one of a severity and a probability of the predicted kidney condition, the kidney health score calculated based on the one or more input values. The system also includes an output module configured to present the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score to a medical professional.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for assessing kidney health, the system comprising: a processing device including: an input module configured to receive input values related to kidney function of a patient; a prediction module comprising a computation algorithm and/or a model configured to predict a kidney condition and calculate a kidney health score related to at least one of a severity and a probability of the predicted kidney condition, the kidney health score calculated based on the one or more input values; and an output module configured to present the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score to a medical professional.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the output module is configured to perform at least one of: presenting a diagnostic protocol for diagnosing the predicted kidney condition, and recommending one or more diagnostic tests for evaluating the kidney function.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the output module is configured to present at least one of a treatment protocol for treating the predicted kidney condition, and a recommendation as to an adjustment of an existing treatment protocol.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the output module is configured to store the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score, and output at least one of a textual, audial, and visual representation of the predicted kidney condition in at least one of an e-mail, an SMS message, an alert, an alarm, a graphical user interface and a display.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the prediction module, the computation algorithm and/or the model is configured to calculate at least one of a level of confidence and a probability that the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score are accurate.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the input values include at least one known input value and/or at least one estimated input value, and the at least one of the level of confidence and the probability is calculated based on a combination of the at least one known input value and/or the at least one estimated input value and performance of the model and/or the algorithm, the model and/or the algorithm configured to output the kidney health score based on the input values.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one known input value is at least one of a measured physiological variable, a vital sign, a lab test result, a demographic, a comorbid condition, and an intervention (e.g. dialysis, fluid, or medication), and the at least one estimated input value is estimated using at least one of an inference, a correlation, a regression, an algebraic equation, an ordinary differential equation and a partial differential equation.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the at least one of the level of confidence and the probability is calculated by performing at least one of: predicting the kidney health score according to a first guideline, rule or model and generating a first prediction, predicting the kidney health score according to a second guideline, rule or model and generating a second prediction, comparing the first prediction to the second prediction, and estimating a probability that the patient has the predicted kidney condition based on the comparison; and randomly selecting a first plurality of input values and performing a first prediction of the kidney health score according to the first guideline, rule or model, randomly selecting a second plurality of input values and performing a second prediction of the kidney health score according to the first guideline, rule or model, comparing the first prediction to the second prediction, and estimating a probability that the patient has the predicted kidney health score based on the comparison.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the random selection is based on a Monte Carlo-like simulation or bootstrapping or similar approach or simulation on perturbations of at least one of the input values, a guideline, a rule, a model used for estimating outputs, and a formula or a model used for estimating inputs.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the prediction module is configured to calculate the kidney health score based on a nonlinear mapping function of the input values to one or more output values, the one or more output values including the kidney health score.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the nonlinear mapping function is at least one of a multi-layer neural network (MLNN), deep learning neural network (DLNN), or recurrent neural network (RNN); or a set of guidelines or rules; or a differential equation-based model where parameters have physiological meaning or a differential (or difference) equation-based model where parameters do not have physiological meaning (e.g. time series models).
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the kidney health score is calculated based on a trained computation/prediction algorithm, the training performed by a learning algorithm, the learning algorithm trained based on health data from a plurality of patients, the health data including data related to healthy patients and data related to patients having the predicted kidney condition.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the learning algorithm includes a mathematical process to update weights, coefficients, biases, and/or parameters of a nonlinear mapping function of the input values to one or more output values, the one or more output values including the kidney health score.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the learning algorithm comprises an optimization algorithm.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the prediction module is configured to update the trained computation/prediction algorithm based on new health data from a plurality of patients, the plurality of patients selected over a selected range of time from at least one of a selected care unit or facility, a selected geographical location, and a selected subset of a patient population.
16. The system of claim 1, further comprising a post-processing module configured to perform at least one of: storing the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score in a results database, and performing an inference using the kidney health score to provide an advisory to a user.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the advisory is at least one of a diagnostic protocol, a therapeutic protocol and an adjustment to a therapy.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the input module is configured to establish communication with a medical device and/or system and receive input data therefrom.
19. The system of claim 1, further comprising a pre-processing module including a data acquisition system configured to perform at least one of parsing, interpreting, transforming, descaling, normalizing, unit conversion, storing, hosting, plotting, and sending to a prediction module.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the predicted kidney condition is at least one of an acute kidney injury (AKI), reversible kidney damage, an intrinsic kidney disease, an extrinsic kidney disease, a pre-renal condition, an intrarenal condition, and a post-renal condition and is represented by at least one of a predicted stage, a severity, a percentage, and a probability of the kidney condition.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to administer a therapeutic modality or modify an existing treatment based on one or more output values from the prediction module, wherein the system effectuates the treatment or amelioration of at least one symptom of the predicted kidney condition.
22. A method of assessing kidney health, the method comprising: receiving, by an input module, input values related to kidney function of a patient; predicting, by a prediction module comprising a computation algorithm and/or a model, a kidney condition and calculating a kidney health score related to at least one of a severity and a probability of the predicted kidney condition by a prediction module, the kidney health score calculated based on the one or more input values; and presenting, by an output module, the predicted kidney condition and the kidney health score to a medical professional.
</claims>
</document>
