<document>

<filing_date>
2020-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Clutch Technologis, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARLEY, ADAM J.
ROMERO, LISA
MORGAN, BENJAMIN E.
CHILDS, STUART H.
CLEMENTS, KYLE L.
NEEL, STEVEN S.
SANDUSKY, TAYLOR M.
PHELPS, JR., JOHN R.
ZAPPA, VINCENT G.
STEVENS, GRANT
BAILEY, SEATON G.
RACKLEY, III, BRADY L
VENKATRAMAN, SASANGAMESWARNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57683844
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VEHICLE SUGGESTION REPORT GENERATOR
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for dynamically obtaining and evaluating information to optimize the generation of vehicle suggestions for a customer. A profile based on an initial set of information received from a user is created. Metrics are generated based on the profile information. Upon receiving a vehicle request, the profile and the request are analyzed in view of available vehicles. A customer's response to the vehicle suggestion list, as well as events triggered by a perceived need for additional information result in the dynamic adjustment of the profile and thus, the generated metrics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a computer system to automate the generation of one or more vehicle suggestions for users, the method comprising: creating a fleet of vehicles that can be utilized by any of a plurality of users, wherein each vehicle within the fleet of vehicles includes a telematics devices installed therein; a computer system receiving telematics data that is electronically transmitted from one or more of the vehicles within the fleet of vehicles; the computer system receiving user preference data from one or more of the plurality of users; the computer system creating a user profile for each user of the plurality of users, wherein each user profile is based at least in part on the user preference data received from the user and telematics data associated with one or more of an assigned vehicle that is presently utilized by the user and one or more previously assigned vehicles that have previously been utilized by the user; the computer system receiving an event transmitted over the network from a user device, wherein the event is the result of a user submitting a vehicle request utilizing the user device and wherein the vehicle request includes one or more parameters pertaining to desired characteristics of a vehicle; the computer system, in response to receiving the vehicle request, identifying a domain of available vehicles selected from the plurality of vehicles; the computer system analyzing the one or more parameters in view of the user profile and the domain of available vehicles; identifying the current location of the user's assigned vehicle, if any, by parsing the telematics data received from the assigned vehicle; and automatically generating a vehicle suggestion report comprising one or more vehicles selected from the domain of available vehicles, wherein the one or more vehicles are selected based at least in part on the one or more parameters matching with characteristics of the vehicle, the user profile and the identified current location of the user's assigned vehicle; and presenting the vehicle suggestion report to the user device, with each entry in the vehicle suggestion report including a link to a network accessible page providing further details regarding the vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the action of analyzing the one or more parameters in view of the user profile and the domain of available vehicles further comprises creating a match rating for each vehicle in the domain of available vehicles by applying a series of heuristics to identify how closely the characteristics of each vehicle match the one or more parameters and the user preference data in the user profile.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprises ranking the vehicles in the domain of available vehicles based on the match rating.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the action of creating a match rating for each vehicle in the domain of available vehicles further comprises adjusting the match rating based on the current location of the user's assigned vehicle.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprises ranking the vehicles in the domain of available vehicles based on the match rating.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the action of creating a match rating for each vehicle in the domain of available vehicles further comprises adjusting the match rating based on the current location of the each vehicle in the domain of available vehicles.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprises ranking the vehicles in the domain of available vehicles based on the match rating.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the action of generating a vehicle suggestion report selecting a number of vehicles with the highest match rating.
9. The method of claim 2, further comprising the actions of: the computer system receiving a rejection event transmitted over the network from the user device, wherein the rejection event is the result of a user submitting rejecting each vehicle presented in the vehicle report; in response to receiving the rejection event, the computer system requesting additional vehicle preference data from the user; in response to receiving the additional vehicle preference data, the computer system: augmenting the user profile; automatically generating a new vehicle suggestion report comprising one or more vehicles selected from the domain of available vehicles, wherein the one or more vehicles are selected based at least in part on the one or more parameters matching with characteristics of the vehicle, the augmented user profile and the identified current location of the user's assigned vehicle; and presenting the new vehicle suggestion report to the user device, with each entry in the new vehicle suggestion report including a link to a network accessible page providing further details regarding the vehicle.
10. A system to automate the generation of one or more vehicle suggestions for users, the system comprising: a fleet of vehicles that can be utilized by any of a plurality of users, wherein each vehicle within the fleet of vehicles includes a telematics devices installed therein; a computer system configured to: receive telematics data that is electronically transmitted from one or more of the vehicles within the fleet of vehicles; receive user preference data from one or more of the plurality of users; create a user profile for each user of the plurality of users, wherein each user profile is based at least in part on the user preference data received from the user and telematics data associated with one or more of an assigned vehicle that is presently utilized by the user and one or more previously assigned vehicles that have previously been utilized by the user; receive an event transmitted over the network from a user device, wherein the event is the result of a user submitting a vehicle request utilizing the user device and wherein the vehicle request includes one or more parameters pertaining to desired characteristics of a vehicle; in response to receiving the vehicle request, identifying a domain of available vehicles selected from the plurality of vehicles; analyzing the one or more parameters in view of the user profile and the domain of available vehicles; identifying the current location of the user's assigned vehicle, if any, by parsing the telematics data received from the assigned vehicle; and a report generator configured to: automatically generate a vehicle suggestion report comprising one or more vehicles selected from the domain of available vehicles, wherein the one or more vehicles are selected based at least in part on the one or more parameters matching with characteristics of the vehicle, the user profile and the identified current location of the user's assigned vehicle; and present the vehicle suggestion report to the user device, with each entry in the vehicle suggestion report including a link to a network accessible page providing further details regarding the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
