<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/41,G06N10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAMBETTA, JAY M.
NATION, PAUL
FARO SERTAGE, ISMAEL
JAVADIABHARI, ALI
Martin Fernandez, Francisco Jose
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74102317
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ADAPTIVE COMPILATION OF QUANTUM COMPUTING JOBS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, computer-implemented methods, and computer program products to facilitate adaptive compilation of quantum computing jobs are provided. According to an embodiment, a system can comprise a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable components can comprise a selection component that selects a quantum device to execute a quantum program based on one or more run criteria. The computer executable components can further comprise an adaptive compilation component that modifies the quantum program based on one or more attributes of the quantum device to generate a modified quantum program compilation of the quantum program.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a selection component that selects a quantum device to execute a quantum program based on one or more run criteria; and an adaptive compilation component that modifies the quantum program based on one or more attributes of the quantum device to generate a modified quantum program compilation of the quantum program.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the adaptive compilation component further dispatches the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation, thereby facilitating at least one of reduced turnaround time to execute the quantum program or reduced latency of the quantum device.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the adaptive compilation component further dispatches the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation based on a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in the queue of the quantum device.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a scheduler component that determines a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in a queue of the quantum device based on the one or more run criteria.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the adaptive compilation component modifies at least one of a quantum circuit of the quantum program or a pulse schedule of the quantum program.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more attributes of the quantum device are selected from a group consisting of a configuration of the quantum device and a property of the quantum device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more run criteria are selected from a group consisting of: availability of the quantum device; access to the quantum device; workload of the quantum device; fidelity of the quantum device; complexity of the quantum program; anticipated execution time corresponding to the quantum program; entity software entitlement; entity preference; and entity defined pulse schedule.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: selecting, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a quantum device to execute a quantum program based on one or more run criteria; and modifying, by the system, the quantum program based on one or more attributes of the quantum device to generate a modified quantum program compilation of the quantum program.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: dispatching, by the system, the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation, thereby facilitating at least one of reduced turnaround time to execute the quantum program or reduced latency of the quantum device.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: dispatching, by the system, the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation based on a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in the queue of the quantum device.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: determining, by the system, a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in a queue of the quantum device based on the one or more run criteria.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the modifying comprises: modifying, by the system, at least one of a quantum circuit of the quantum program or a pulse schedule of the quantum program.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the one or more attributes of the quantum device are selected from a group consisting of a configuration of the quantum device and a property of the quantum device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the one or more run criteria are selected from a group consisting of: availability of the quantum device; access to the quantum device; workload of the quantum device; fidelity of the quantum device; complexity of the quantum program; anticipated execution time corresponding to the quantum program; entity software entitlement; entity preference; and entity defined pulse schedule.
15. A computer program product facilitating an adaptive compilation of quantum computing jobs process, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: select, by the processor, a quantum device to execute a quantum program based on one or more run criteria; and modify, by the processor, the quantum program based on one or more attributes of the quantum device to generate a modified quantum program compilation of the quantum program.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: dispatch, by the processor, the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: dispatch, by the processor, the modified quantum program compilation to a queue of the quantum device to execute the modified quantum program compilation based on a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in the queue of the quantum device.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: determine, by the processor, a run order position of the modified quantum program compilation in a queue of the quantum device based on the one or more run criteria.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: modify, by the processor, at least one of a quantum circuit of the quantum program or a pulse schedule of the quantum program.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the one or more attributes of the quantum device are selected from a first group consisting of a configuration of the quantum device and a property of the quantum device, and wherein the one or more run criteria are selected from a second group consisting of: availability of the quantum device; access to the quantum device; workload of the quantum device; fidelity of the quantum device; complexity of the quantum program; anticipated execution time corresponding to the quantum program; entity software entitlement; entity preference; and entity defined pulse schedule.
</claims>
</document>
