<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/04,B60W10/20,B60W30/18,B60W50/14,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, SORYOUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR MONITORING DRIVING CONDITION OF VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a method of monitoring the driving state of a vehicle. The method includes acquiring driving information of a vehicle, identifying, based on the acquired driving information, whether the vehicle satisfies at least one condition in a predetermined section, identifying a verification type corresponding to the satisfied condition, and identifying a driving state of the vehicle based on the verification type. One or more of an autonomous vehicle and a crime prediction device of the present disclosure may be connected to, for example, an artificial intelligence module, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, or a 5G service device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A driving state monitoring method by a computation device, the method comprising: acquiring driving information of a vehicle; identifying, based on the acquired driving information, whether the vehicle satisfies at least one condition in a predetermined section; identifying a verification type corresponding to the satisfied condition; and identifying a driving state of the vehicle based on the verification type.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying a driving state of the vehicle includes: identifying whether there is a verification section in an expected driving route of the vehicle; and identifying the driving state of the vehicle in the verification section using a first verification model corresponding to the verification type when there is the verification section.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the verification type includes speed verification and steering verification, and wherein the first verification model includes at least one of a virtual object corresponding to the verification type, a display position of the virtual object, and predicted control information of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object, in order to perform the speed verification or the steering verification in the verification section.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the virtual object is an object capable of causing a change in a speed of the vehicle in a case of the speed verification or an object capable of causing a change in steering of the vehicle in a case of the steering verification, wherein the display position of the virtual object includes a position set in the verification section to allow the vehicle to secure a predetermined distance, and wherein the predicted control information of the vehicle includes a change in the speed of the vehicle or a change in a driving distance of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object in the verification section in the case of the speed verification, or includes a predicted distance between the vehicle and another vehicle depending on display of the virtual object in the verification section in the case of the steering verification.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: comparing information on a change in the driving state of the vehicle with the predicted control information of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object; and controlling driving of the vehicle based on a comparison result.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the controlling includes switching the vehicle that is under manual driving to automatic driving when the comparison result is that the information on a change in the driving state of the vehicle and the predicted control information satisfy a preset first condition, or performing driving correction on the vehicle when the comparison result is that the driving state of the vehicle and the predicted control information satisfy a preset second condition.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising re-verifying the driving state of the vehicle using a second verification model corresponding to the verification type when a request for switching to manual driving to the vehicle is confirmed after the vehicle that is under manual driving is switched to automatic driving, wherein the second verification model is a model in which the display position of the virtual object or the predicted control information is adjusted, compared to the first verification model.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the vehicle that is under manual driving is switched to automatic driving when the vehicle again satisfies the at least one condition in the predetermined section after controlled to undergo driving correction.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein, in the identifying, the driving state of the vehicle is identified by comparing the driving information of the vehicle with driving information of another vehicle in the predetermined section when there is no verification section in which the driving state of the vehicle is identified.
10. A driving state monitoring method by a computation device, the method comprising: identifying a verification type corresponding to at least one condition when a vehicle satisfies the at least one condition during traveling; determining a first verification model corresponding to the verification type; identifying a driving state of the vehicle using the first verification model; and determining driving control of the vehicle based on a result of identifying the driving state.
11. A vehicle comprising: a display; and a processor configured to: acquire driving information of a vehicle; identify, based on the acquired driving information, whether the vehicle satisfies at least one condition in a predetermined section; identify a verification type corresponding to the satisfied condition; and identify a driving state of the vehicle based on the verification type.
12. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to: identify whether there is a verification section in an expected driving route of the vehicle; and identify the driving state of the vehicle in the verification section using a first verification model corresponding to the verification type when there is the verification section.
13. The vehicle of claim 12, wherein the verification type includes speed verification and steering verification, and wherein the first verification model includes at least one of a virtual object corresponding to the verification type, a display position of the virtual object, and predicted control information of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object, in order to perform the speed verification or the steering verification in the verification section.
14. The vehicle of claim 13, wherein the virtual object is an object capable of causing a change in a speed of the vehicle in a case of the speed verification or an object capable of causing a change in steering of the vehicle in a case of the steering verification, wherein the display position of the virtual object includes a position set in the verification section to allow the vehicle to secure a predetermined distance, and wherein the predicted control information of the vehicle includes a change in the speed of the vehicle or a change in a driving distance of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object in the verification section in the case of the speed verification, or includes a predicted distance between the vehicle and another vehicle depending on display of the virtual object in the verification section in the case of the steering verification.
15. The vehicle of claim 14, wherein the processor is configured to: compare information on a change in the driving state of the vehicle with the predicted control information of the vehicle depending on display of the virtual object; and control driving of the vehicle based on a comparison result.
16. The vehicle of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to switch the vehicle that is under manual driving to automatic driving when the comparison result is that the information on a change in the driving state of the vehicle and the predicted control information satisfy a preset first condition, or to perform driving correction on the vehicle when the comparison result is that the driving state of the vehicle and the predicted control information satisfy a preset second condition.
17. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to re-verify the driving state of the vehicle using a second verification model corresponding to the verification type when a request for switching to manual driving to the vehicle is confirmed after the vehicle that is under manual driving is switched to automatic driving, and wherein the second verification model is a model in which the display position of the virtual object or the predicted control information is adjusted, compared to the first verification model.
18. The vehicle of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to switch the vehicle that is under manual driving to automatic driving when the vehicle again satisfies the at least one condition in the predetermined section after controlled to undergo driving correction.
19. The vehicle of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to identify the driving state of the vehicle by comparing the driving information of the vehicle with driving information of another vehicle in the predetermined section when there is no verification section in which the driving state of the vehicle is identified.
20. A non-volatile computer readable recording medium in which an instruction for executing the method of claim 1 in a computer is recorded.
</claims>
</document>
