<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/05,A61B5/113,A61B7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED TELESENSORS, INC.
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSHAL, SAJOL
KRAMER DAVID
Martinez, Jaime
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017803
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR MONITORING RESPIRATION AND MOTION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for remotely sensing movement of a mammalian subject utilize a radio frequency (RF) transmitter configured to impinge a RF signal on tissue of a mammalian subject, a RF receiver configured to receive a reflected RF signal, a processor configured to separately identify presence of respiratory and non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject, and a memory configured to store processes signal values generated by or derived from the processor, wherein the processor is configured to compare one or more processed signals against one or more stored processed signal values, and detect a health state or health condition of the mammalian subject. Sleep apnea and respiratory events may be detected. In one embodiment, motion of a human infant may be mapped over time, and motion trends may be used to assess proper development of the infant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for remotely sensing movement of a mammalian subject, the system comprising: a radio frequency (RF) transmitter configured to transmit a RF signal for impingement on tissue of the mammalian subject; a RF receiver configured to receive a RF signal comprising a reflection of the RF signal impinged on tissue of the mammalian subject; at least one processor configured to process the received RF signal to separately identify presence of respiratory motion of the mammalian subject and presence of non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject; and a memory configured to store processed signal values generated by or derived from the at least one processor indicative of at least one of (i) respiratory motion of the mammalian subject or (ii) non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject; wherein the at least one processor is further configured to compare one or more processed signals generated by or derived from the at least one processor against one or more stored processed signal values, and detect at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is additionally configured to initiate at least one of the following actions (i) or (ii) responsive to detection of at least one health state or health condition correlated to deviation from baseline conditions for respiratory and/or non-respiratory movement of the mammalian subject: (i) generate an alarm signal, or (ii) summon human and/or medical assistance for the mammalian subject.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject comprises a respiratory trauma event, an apnea event, a bradypnea event, a hyperventilation event, a choking event, or a suffocating event experienced by the mammalian subject.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processed signals generated by or derived from the at least one processor comprise one or more baseline values indicative of at least one pattern of normal movement of the mammalian subject, and detection of the at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject comprises deviation from the at least one pattern of normal movement of the mammalian subject.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is configured to generate the one or more baseline values using an artificial intelligence engine.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the mammalian subject comprises a human infant or child, and the RF transmitter comprises a direction RF transmitter that is mounted and aligned to point at a torso of the human infant or child when the human infant or child is present in a medical apparatus, a crib, a bed, or an infant safety seat.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the mammalian subject comprises a human infant, and the system is configured to detect motion of the human infant over time, to map motion of the human infant over time to generate a baseline, and to utilize the human infant motion trends to determine whether the human infant is undergoing proper development.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a camera configured to image the mammalian subject, wherein the memory is configured to store one or more still images or videos of the mammalian subject.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein when an alarm signal is detected, the memory is configured to store one or more still images or videos of the mammalian subject in association with the processed signal values generated by or derived from the at least one processor indicative of at least one of (i) respiratory motion of the mammalian subject or (ii) non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising a microphone configured to capture sounds generated by the mammalian subject, wherein the memory is configured to store one or more sounds generated by the mammalian subject.
11. A method for detecting at least one health state or health condition of a mammalian subject, the method comprising: transmitting a radio frequency (RF) signal to impinge on tissue of the mammalian subject; receiving a RF signal comprising a reflection of the RF signal impinged on tissue of the mammalian subject; processing the received RF signal utilizing at least one processor to separately identify presence of respiratory motion of the mammalian subject and presence of non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject; storing processed signal values generated by or derived from the at least one processor in a memory, the processed signal values being indicative of at least one of (i) respiratory motion of the mammalian subject or (ii) non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject; and utilizing the at least one processor, comparing one or more processed signals generated by or derived from the at least one processor against one or more stored processed signal values, and responsive to the comparing, detecting at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising automatically taking at least one of the following actions (i) or (ii) responsive to detection of at least one health state or health condition correlated to deviation from baseline conditions for respiratory and/or non-respiratory movement of the mammalian subject: (i) generating an alarm signal, or (ii) summoning human and/or medical assistance for the mammalian subject.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject comprises a respiratory trauma event, an apnea event, a bradypnea event, a hyperventilation event, a choking event, or a suffocating event experienced by the mammalian subject.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the processed signals generated by or derived from the at least one processor comprise one or more baseline values indicative of at least one pattern of normal movement of the mammalian subject, and the detection of the at least one health state or health condition of the mammalian subject comprises identification of deviation from the at least one pattern of normal movement of the mammalian subject.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising generating the one or more baseline values using an artificial intelligence engine.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the mammalian subject comprises a human infant or child, and the RF transmitter is mounted and aligned to point at a torso of the human infant or child when the human infant or child is present in a medical apparatus, a crib, a bed, or an infant safety seat.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the mammalian subject comprises a human infant, and the method further comprises detecting motion of the human infant over time, mapping motion of the human infant over time to generate a baseline, and utilizing the human infant motion trends to determine whether the human infant is undergoing proper development.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising communicating signals indicative of one or more of the following items over a communication network to a remotely located signal receiving device: respiration rate, respiration history, alarm state, alarm history, non-respiratory motion history, and baseline values indicative of a pattern of normal movement.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising capturing one or more still images of the mammalian subject, videos of the mammalian subject, or sounds generated by the mammalian subject, and storing the one or more still images, videos, or sounds.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein when an alarm signal is detected, the method further comprises storing one or more still images of the mammalian subject, videos of the mammalian subject, or sounds generated by the mammalian subject in association with the processed signal values generated by or derived from the at least one processor indicative of at least one of (i) respiratory motion of the mammalian subject or (ii) non-respiratory motion of the mammalian subject.
</claims>
</document>
