<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/20,G16H15/00,G16H50/30,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRESENIUS MEDICAL CARE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLANCHARD, THOMAS C.
USVYAT, LEN
ELLISON, BRIAN C.
MORAN, JUDITH E.
WILLETTS, JOANNA L.
HERMAN, MELISSA C.
CHATOTH, DINESH K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67439377
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IDENTIFYING RISK OF INFECTION IN DIALYSIS PATIENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for determining a patient's risk of developing an infection is disclosed. In one embodiment, the system and method includes extracting patient data from one or more databases corresponding to a pool of patients receiving treatment; using one or more predictive models with the extracted patient data to generate, for each of the patients in the pool of patients, a respective patient risk score for developing an infection within a selected time period; generating a report including at least a portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients and their respective patient risk scores; and transmitting the report to one or more health care facilities, the one or more health care facilities further identifying one or more patients from the portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients for interventional treatment, consultation, training, or combinations thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining a patient's risk of developing an infection, the system comprising: an integrated care system configured to: extract patient data from one or more databases corresponding to a pool of patients receiving treatment; use one or more predictive models with the extracted patient data to generate, for each of the patients in the pool of patients, a respective patient risk score for developing an infection within a selected time period; generate a report including at least a portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients and their respective patient risk scores; and transmit the report to one or more health care facilities, the one or more health care facilities further identifying one or more patients from the portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients for interventional treatment, consultation, training, or combinations thereof.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: analyze the extracted patient data to identify patient characteristics common to patients having previous documented reports of infections; and identify the patient characteristics in each of the patients in the pool of patients when generating the patient risk score for developing an infection within a selected time period.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: analyze the extracted patient data to identify patient characteristics common to patients who have not had previous documented reports of infections.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: identify characteristics of patients previously diagnosed with an infection; and analyze the extract patient data against the characteristics for commonalities.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the interventional treatment, consultation, or training comprises: transmitting to one or more patients a questionnaire to obtain additional information about the patient's administration of dialysis; contacting one or more patients to determine appropriate interventions to aid in minimizing a risk of developing the infection; contacting one or more patients for an assessment of a patient's dialysis treatment; altering one or more conditions regarding the patient's administration of dialysis; or sending a medical profession to one or more patients from the portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients for an in-home visual assessment; or combinations thereof.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the report is generated on a predetermined periodical basis.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the identified subset of the pool of patients comprises patients in a similar geographic area, patients assigned to a dialysis clinic, or a group of patients receiving care from an individual medical professional, or combinations thereof.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the report comprises a subset of the pool of patients having a respective patient risk score that is higher than a predetermined threshold value.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined threshold value is determined by the one or more predictive models based on historical data.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the report includes all patients associated with a particular medical group.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the report includes one or more associated reasons for each patient.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the extracted patient data comprises patient demographics, laboratory values, recorded information, physician notes, or treatment data, or combinations thereof.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the patient demographics comprises gender, race, age, or marital status, or combinations thereof.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the laboratory values comprise a patient's albumin level, a patient's calcium level, a patient's chloride level, a patient's creatinine level, or a patient's transferrin saturation (TSAT) level, or combinations thereof.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the laboratory values comprise a time period over which a patient has been undergoing dialysis treatments, a time period over which a patient was last diagnosed with an infection, a total number of previous infections from a patient, or a distance of a patient's home to a dialysis facility, or combinations thereof.
16. A method for determining a patient's risk of developing an infection, the method comprising: extracting patient data from one or more databases corresponding to a pool of patients receiving treatment; using one or more predictive models with the extracted patient data to generate, for each of the patients in the pool of patients, a respective patient risk score for developing an infection within a selected time period; generating a report including at least a portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients and their respective patient risk scores; and transmitting the report to one or more health care facilities, the one or more health care facilities further identifying one or more patients from the portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients for interventional treatment, consultation, training, or combinations thereof.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: analyze the extracted patient data to identify patient characteristics common to patients having previous documented reports of infections; and identify the patient characteristics in each of the patients in the pool of patients when generating the patient risk score for developing an infection within a selected time period.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: analyze the extracted patient data to identify patient characteristics common to patients who have not had previous documented reports of infections.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more predictive models are arranged and configured to: identify characteristics of patients previously diagnosed with an infection; and analyze the extract patient data against the characteristics for commonalities.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the interventional treatment, consultation, or training comprises: transmitting to one or more patients a questionnaire to obtain additional information about the patient's administration of dialysis; contacting one or more patients to determine appropriate interventions to aid in minimizing a risk of developing the infection; contacting one or more patients for an assessment of a patient's dialysis treatment; altering one or more conditions regarding the patient's administration of dialysis; or sending a medical profession to one or more patients from the portion of the identified subset of the pool of patients for an in-home visual assessment; or combinations thereof.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the report is generated on a predetermined periodical basis.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein the identified subset of the pool of patients comprises patients in a similar geographic area, patients assigned to a dialysis clinic, or a group of patients receiving care from an individual medical professional, or combinations thereof.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein the report comprises a subset of the pool of patients having a respective patient risk score that is higher than a predetermined threshold value.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein the predetermined threshold value is determined by the one or more predictive models based on historical data.
25. The method of claim 16, wherein the report includes all patients associated with a particular medical group.
26. The method of claim 16, wherein the report includes one or more associated reasons for each patient.
27. The method of claim 16, wherein the extracted patient data comprises patient demographics, laboratory values, recorded information, physician notes, or treatment data, or combinations thereof.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the patient demographics comprises gender, race, age, or marital status, or combinations thereof.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the laboratory values comprise a patient's albumin level, a patient's calcium level, a patient's chloride level, a patient's creatinine level, or a patient's transferrin saturation (TSAT) level, or combinations thereof.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the laboratory values comprise a time period over which a patient has been undergoing dialysis treatments, a time period over which a patient was last diagnosed with an infection, a total number of previous infections from a patient, or a distance of a patient's home to a dialysis facility, or combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
