<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/74,G06F3/0484,G06F40/143,G06F40/221,G06T7/20,G06T7/90,H05B45/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GILG, MATTHEW RYAN
SUN, TIMOTHY CHIA-CHIEH
WHIRLWIND VR
</assignee>

<inventors>
GILG, MATTHEW RYAN
SUN, TIMOTHY CHIA-CHIEH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971263
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and Method for an End-User Scripted (EUS) Customized Effect from a Rendered Web-Page
</title>

<abstract>
A method for controlling at least one light-emitting peripheral device (LEPD) for an immersive effect comprising the steps of: layering at least one of a static, inert, or dynamic content from a web-browser page further comprising an interface configured for at least one of script input for custom lighting effects or standard lighting effect requests via a standard user-interface input; rendering the web-browser page to an off-screen buffer visualized as at least a two-dimensional effects plane; applying a geo-positional transform and scaling of virtual LEPD's within the effects plane and capturing at least a region of the rendered webpage; and controlling a light effect emitted from the at least one LEPD corresponding to the effects plane transformed/scaled virtual LEPD and captured region of the rendered web-browser page.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling at least one light-emitting peripheral device (LEPD) for an immersive light effect, said method comprising the steps of: providing a web-browser page interface configured for end-user script input for adjusting any one of an aspect of the immersive light effect from the at least one LEPD; rendering the script-inputted web-browser page to an off-screen buffer visualized as at least a two-dimensional effects plane; applying a geo-positional transform and scaling of virtual LEPD's within the effects plane and capturing at least a region of the rendered webpage; and controlling a light effect emitted from the at least one LEPD corresponding to the effects plane transformed/scaled virtual LEPD and captured region of the rendered web-browser page.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the interface is an application running on a processor or microcontroller.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the web browser page is a processing block rendering websites by processing script input and converting it to user-facing content on a local client.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the script input is standards-based HTML, HTMLS, or Javascript.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the aspects of the immersive light effect is adjustable for at least one of a color, hue, effect, effect speed, threshold-based, or audio-based.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of rendering script in the presence of audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein the script accesses at least one of the following aspects of the audio-video input for controlling the immersive light effect, such as pixel color, audio intensity, audio spectral density, audio frequency, low frequency impulse level, pixel proximity, pixel velocity, pixel motion, zone color, or zone motion.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising the step of rendering script in the presence of audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein the script accesses pre-scripted triggers for lighting effects within the layered audio-video content.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the rendering further comprises parsing meta tags for providing details to the user related to the script-inputted effect by the user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the geo-positional transform and scaling allows for setting the position and scale of the virtual LEPD on the effect plane, and using the resulting transformed pixel information to drive lighting effects on LEDs on the at least one LEPD.
10. A method for controlling at least one light-emitting peripheral device (LEPD) for an immersive light effect, said method comprising the steps of: providing a web-browser page interface configured for adjusting any one of a standard aspect of the immersive light effect from the at least one LEPD; rendering the web-browser page to an off-screen buffer visualized as at least a two-dimensional effects plane; applying a geo-positional transform and scaling of virtual LEPD's within the effects plane and capturing at least a region of the rendered webpage; and controlling a light effect emitted from the at least one LEPD corresponding to the effects plane transformed/scaled virtual LEPD and captured region of the rendered web-browser page.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the interface is at least one of a slider, drag, drop, click, color-picker, switch, text field, or dial for adjusting any one of the standard aspects of the immersive light effect.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the aspects of the immersive light effect is adjustable for at least one of a color, hue, effect, effect speed, threshold-based, or audio-based.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein at least one of the following aspects of the audio-video content control for the immersive light effect, such as pixel color, audio intensity, audio spectral density, audio frequency, low frequency impulse level, pixel proximity, pixel velocity, pixel motion, zone color, or zone motion.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein the audio-video content comprises pre-scripted triggers to control for standard lighting effects.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the rendering further comprises parsing meta tags for providing details to the user related to the script-inputted effect by the user.
16. A method for controlling at least one light-emitting peripheral device (LEPD) for an immersive effect, said method comprising the steps of: layering at least one of a static, inert or dynamic content from a web-browser with an interface configured for at least one of end-user script input for custom lighting effects or standard lighting effect requests via a standard user-interface input; rendering the web-browser page to an off-screen buffer visualized as at least a two-dimensional effects plane; applying a geo-positional transform and scaling of virtual LEPD's within the effects plane and capturing at least a region of the rendered webpage; and controlling a light effect emitted from the at least one LEPD corresponding to the effects plane transformed/scaled virtual LEPD and captured region of the rendered web-browser page.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the LEPD is a light-emitting diode strip configured to be anchored or adhered to the back surface of a display.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the LEPD is a light-emitting keyboard or game-play controller.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the dynamic content is audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein at least one of the following aspects of the audio-video content control for the immersive light effect, such as pixel color, audio intensity, audio spectral density, audio frequency, low frequency impulse level, pixel proximity, pixel velocity, pixel motion, zone color, or zone motion.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the static content is audio-video content layered on the web-browser page, wherein the audio-video content comprises pre-scripted triggers control for lighting effects.
21. A method for controlling at least one effect-emitting peripheral device (EEPD) for an immersive effect, said method comprising the steps of: layering at least one of a static, inert, or dynamic content from a web-browser page with an interface configured for at least one of end-user script input for custom effects or standard effect requests via a standard user-interface input; rendering the web-browser page to an off-screen buffer visualized as at least a two-dimensional effects plane; applying a geo-positional transform and scaling of virtual EEPD's within the effects plane and capturing at least a region of the rendered webpage; and controlling an effect emitted from the at least one EEPD corresponding to the effects plane transformed/scaled virtual EEPD and captured region of the rendered web-browser page.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the EEPD is an air-blowing device with a fan assembly comprised within a housing.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the air-blowing device is coupled to at least one of an LED strip or heat element.
</claims>
</document>
