<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A45D44/00,G06T11/00,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HENKEL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KNÜBEL, Georg
FÖRSTER, Thomas
AZHARI, Peyman
ZILLY CLAUDE, Felipe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59350948
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, DEVICE AND DATA-PROCESSING APPARATUS FOR COMPUTER-AIDED HAIR DYE COLORING GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
In various exemplary embodiments, a method for computer-aided hair color counseling is provided. The method may comprise: recording a digital image of hair of a user and additional objects by employing a camera, identifying a hair region area in the digital image in which the hair is depicted, identifying a new hair color, aligning a hair projection region in which the hair is projected, of a transparent or reflecting screen or a system of screen and one-way mirror in a manner such that, to an observer of the screen, a combination of the objects transmitted or reflected by the screen is produced with the hair projection region, wherein the hair projection region is aligned in a manner such that it essentially covers a hair transmission/reflection region in which to the observer, the transmitted or reflected user's hair would appear, and projecting the hair projection region in the new hair color.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for computer-aided hair color counseling, comprising: recording a digital image of hair of a user and additional objects by employing a camera; identifying a hair region area in the digital image in which the hair is depicted; identifying a new hair color; aligning a hair projection region in which the hair is projected by a transparent screen or a reflecting screen or a system of screen and a one way mirror in a manner such that, to an observer of the screen, a combination of the objects projected by the screen is produced with the hair projection region, wherein the hair projection region is aligned in a manner such that it essentially covers a hair transmission/reflection region in which, to the observer, the projected user's hair would appear; and projecting the hair projection region in the new hair color.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein recording the digital image, identifying the hair region area and presenting the hair projection region colored with the new hair color is repeated in a manner such that a quasi-real time presentation is produced.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the identification of the new hair color comprises selecting the new hair color from a plurality of selectable new hair colors provided by employing a database.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein identifying the new hair color comprises measuring a hair coloring product by employing a sensor.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: correcting the new hair color by employing a color and/or brightness reference.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein aligning of the hair projection region comprises arranging the user, the screen, the observer and the camera in a manner such that the hair projection region covers the hair transmission/reflection region when the hair projection region of the hair region area corresponds to a mirror image configuration of the whole digital image which fills the screen.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein alignment of the hair projection region comprises recording a positional reference.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein alignment of the hair projection region comprises recording spatial information regarding the user and the additional objects.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: projecting the hair projection region in an original hair color of the user.
10. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: presenting at least one colorant which is associated with the selectable new hair color.
11. A device for carrying out computer-aided hair color counseling, comprising: at least one camera to record a digital image of hair of a user and additional objects; a processor, wherein the processor is configured to identify a hair region area in the digital image of the user; an input device for the user to select a new hair color; and a light-transmitting or reflecting screen to project a hair projection region in the new hair color, wherein the hair projection region is aligned in a manner such that, for an observer of the screen, a combination of the objects transmitted or reflected by the screen is produced with the hair projection region, in which the hair projection region about covers a hair transmission/reflection region in which, to the observer, the transmitted or reflected hair of the user would appear.
12. The device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the screen is an OLED screen.
13. The device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the at least one camera is disposed in a manner such that the camera has at least one optical axis that is perpendicular to a surface of the screen facing the user.
14. The device as claimed in claim 11, wherein the screen is the light-emitting screen, further comprising: a mirror which is disposed behind the screen from the user's point of view, such that the user can see in the mirror the combination of the objects transmitted or reflected by the screen with the hair projection region.
15. A method for presenting a hair color result comprising: for each coloring process of a plurality of coloring processes: measuring a colorimetric measurement of uncolored hair for a plurality of measuring points; determining a plurality of "before" mean color value from the colorimetric measured values for the plurality of measuring points for the uncolored hair; measuring a colorimetric measurement of colored hair for a plurality of measuring points; determining an "after" mean color value from the colorimetric measured values for the plurality of measuring points for the colored hair; determining a plurality of color difference value from the plurality of "before" mean color value and the "after" mean color value; incorporating correction factors for a very dark or a very light point; determining a relationship between the plurality of "before" mean color values and the plurality of color difference values using predictive analytics; and providing a digital image which comprises at least one hair region area of a user; determining color values for a plurality of image elements of the user hair region area; determining a user "before" mean color value from the color values for the plurality of image elements from the user hair region area; selection of a new hair color by the user; determining an expected color result using the user "before" mean color value and the determined relationship; and presenting the expected color result by displaying at least a portion of the digital image in which the hair region area is recolored with the aid of the expected color result.
16. The device as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the camera comprises two 3D cameras disposed at a distance from each other suitable for recording 3D images.
17. The device as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the camera is integrated into the screen.
18. The device as claimed in claim 11 wherein: the additional objects comprise a positional reference.
19. The method as claimed in claim 1 wherein: recording the digital image of the hair comprises recording a 3D image of the hair.
</claims>
</document>
