<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAT, KRISHNA PRAKASH
CHUNDURU VENKATA, SIVANAGA RAVI KUMAR
NADELLA, RAMESH
SHARMA, RAJU
SRIVASTAVA, MANISH
TAMADA, KUMARA B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71096956
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUALIZED NETWORK SERVICE MANAGEMENT AND DIAGNOSTICS
</title>

<abstract>
A device monitors, for a software-defined networking wide area network (SD-WAN) deployment, a set of virtualized network services of the SD-WAN deployment, and applies a set of diagnostic tests to evaluate the set of virtualized network services. The device detects, based on monitoring the set of virtualized network services and in connection with applying the set of diagnostic tests, an event associated with a virtualized network service. The device analyzes, using an analytics model of SD-WAN operation, the event to identify an issue associated with the virtualized network service, and determines, based on the analytics model of SD-WAN operation, a recommendation relating to remediating the issue. The device generates an abstraction layer user interface to represent the set of virtualized network services and to convey the recommendation relating to remediating the issue, and implements, after providing the abstraction layer user interface, the recommendation to remediate the issue.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: monitor, for a software-defined networking wide area network (SD-WAN) deployment, a set of virtualized network services of the SD-WAN deployment; apply, concurrent with monitoring the set of virtualized network services, a set of diagnostic tests to evaluate the set of virtualized network services; detect, based on monitoring the set of virtualized network services and in connection with applying the set of diagnostic tests, an event associated with a virtualized network service of the set of virtualized network services; analyze, using an analytics model of SD-WAN operation, the event associated with the virtualized network service; identify, based on analyzing the event associated with the virtualized network service, an issue associated with the virtualized network service; determine, based on the analytics model of SD-WAN operation, a recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; generate an abstraction layer user interface to represent the set of virtualized network services and to convey the recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; and implement, after providing the abstraction layer user interface, the recommendation to remediate the issue associated with the virtualized network service.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when applying the set of diagnostic tests, are to: apply the set of diagnostic tests according to a set of configured instructions, wherein the set of configured instructions include one or more conditional instructions relating to virtualized network services of the set of virtualized network services.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further to: configure the set of diagnostic tests based on types of virtualized network services deployed in the set of virtualized network services.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further to: dynamically generate code to apply the set of diagnostic tests; and wherein the one or more processors, when applying the set of diagnostic tests, are to: execute the code to apply the set of diagnostic tests.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further to: generate the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of a plurality of diagnostic tests; and wherein the one or more processors, when applying the set of diagnostic tests, are to: update the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of the set of diagnostic tests.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors, when identifying the issue, are to: evaluate a hierarchy of the SD-WAN deployment to identify the issue, and wherein the hierarchy for evaluation includes at least one of: a hardware diagnostics evaluation, a network connectivity diagnostics evaluation, or a virtualized network services diagnostics evaluation.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further to: identify a new network service for deployment in the SD-WAN deployment; and add the new network service into a group of monitored network services evaluated using the set of diagnostic tests, wherein the group of monitored network services includes a set of physical network services and the set of virtualized network services.
8. A method, comprising: monitoring, by a device and for a software-defined networking wide area network (SD-WAN) deployment, a set of virtualized network services of the SD-WAN deployment; applying, by the device and concurrent with monitoring the set of virtualized network services, a set of diagnostic tests to evaluate the set of virtualized network services; detecting, by the device and based on monitoring the set of virtualized network services and in connection with applying the set of diagnostic tests, an event associated with a virtualized network service of the set of virtualized network services; analyzing, by the device using an analytics model of SD-WAN operation, the event associated with the virtualized network service; identifying, by the device and based on analyzing the event associated with the virtualized network service, an issue associated with the virtualized network service; determining, by the device based on the analytics model of SD-WAN operation, a recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; generating, by the device, an abstraction layer user interface to represent the set of virtualized network services and to convey the recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; and implementing, by the device and after providing the abstraction layer user interface, the recommendation to remediate the issue associated with the virtualized network service.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein applying the set of diagnostic tests comprises: applying the set of diagnostic tests according to a set of configured instructions, wherein the set of configured instructions include one or more conditional instructions relating to virtualized network services of the set of virtualized network services.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: configuring the set of diagnostic tests based on types of virtualized network services deployed in the set of virtualized network services.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: dynamically generating code to apply the set of diagnostic tests; and wherein applying the set of diagnostic tests comprises: executing the code to apply the set of diagnostic tests.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising: generating the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of a plurality of diagnostic tests; and wherein applying the set of diagnostic tests comprises: updating the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of the set of diagnostic tests.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein identifying the issue comprises: evaluating a hierarchy of the SD-WAN deployment to identify the issue, and wherein the hierarchy for evaluation includes at least one of: a hardware diagnostics evaluation, a network connectivity diagnostics evaluation, or a virtualized network services diagnostics evaluation.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: identifying a new network service for deployment in the SD-WAN deployment; and adding the new network service into a group of monitored network services evaluated using the set of diagnostic tests, wherein the group of monitored network services includes a set of physical network services and the set of virtualized network services.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions, the one or more instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a gateway device, cause the one or more processors to: monitor, for a software-defined networking wide area network (SD-WAN) deployment, a set of virtualized network services of the SD-WAN deployment; apply, concurrent with monitoring the set of virtualized network services, a set of diagnostic tests to evaluate the set of virtualized network services; detect, based on monitoring the set of virtualized network services and in connection with applying the set of diagnostic tests, an event associated with a virtualized network service of the set of virtualized network services; analyze, using an analytics model of SD-WAN operation, the event associated with the virtualized network service; identify, based on analyzing the event associated with the virtualized network service, an issue associated with the virtualized network service; determine, based on the analytics model of SD-WAN operation, a recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; generate an abstraction layer user interface to represent the set of virtualized network services and to convey the recommendation relating to remediating the issue associated with the virtualized network service; and implement, after providing the abstraction layer user interface, the recommendation to remediate the issue associated with the virtualized network service.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to apply the set of diagnostic tests, cause the one or more processors to: apply the set of diagnostic tests according to a set of configured instructions, wherein the set of configured instructions include one or more conditional instructions relating to virtualized network services of the set of virtualized network services.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: configure the set of diagnostic tests based on types of virtualized network services deployed in the set of virtualized network services.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: dynamically generate code to apply the set of diagnostic tests; and wherein the instructions, that cause the one or more processors to apply the set of diagnostic tests, cause the one or more processors to: execute the code to apply the set of diagnostic tests.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: generate the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of a plurality of diagnostic tests; and wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to apply the set of diagnostic tests, cause the one or more processors to: update the analytics model of SD-WAN operation based on results of the set of diagnostic tests.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to identify the issue, cause the one or more processors to: evaluate a hierarchy of the SD-WAN deployment to identify the issue, and wherein the hierarchy for evaluation includes at least one of: a hardware diagnostics evaluation, a network connectivity diagnostics evaluation, or a virtualized network services diagnostics evaluation.
</claims>
</document>
