<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,G06F3/0486,G06F3/0488,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/04,G06Q50/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOODLE ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALF, MAHRIAH ELIZABETH
DEVARAKONDA, SIVANTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123153
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING PRODUCTION RESOURCES IN A SUPPLY CHAIN
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for controlling production resources in a supply chain are described. The system automatically generates predicted supply chain operational metrics across a nodes of a supply chain. The predicted supply chain operational metrics include a value at risk associated with a scheduling of a production run including scheduling a production of a product with a production resource. The system automatically infers causal factors that impact the predicted supply chain operational metrics. The causal factors include a change to a utilization of the production resource. The system communicates a user interface including production runs being scheduled on the production resource including a user interface element representing the scheduling of the production run associated with the value at risk. The system receives input causing a change to the utilization of the production resource. The change to the utilization of the production resource impacts the predicted supply chain operational metrics including the value at risk associated with the scheduling of the production run.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, configures the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving supply chain data, the supply chain data including a plurality of input signals relating to observed supply chain operational metrics including operational plans, the observed supply chain operational metrics being observed across a supply chain; automatically generating, using a machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, predicted supply chain operational metrics across a plurality of nodes of the supply chain, the predicted supply chain operational metrics including a value at risk associated with a scheduling of a first production run, the scheduling of the first production run including a scheduling of a production of a first product with a first production resource; automatically inferring, using the machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, causal factors that impact the predicted supply chain operational metrics, the causal factors including a change to a utilization of the first production resource; communicating, over a network, a user interface including user interface elements, the user interface elements respectively corresponding to production runs being scheduled on the first production resource, the user interface elements including a first user interface element representing the scheduling of the first production run associated with the value at risk; and receiving a first input, over the network, the receiving the first input causing a change to the utilization of the first production resource, the change to the utilization of the first production resource impacting the predicted supply chain operational metrics including impacting the value at risk associated with the scheduling of the first production run.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a production run user interface, wherein the receiving the first input includes receiving a drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element on the production run user interface causing a rescheduling of the first production run on the first production resource and automatically updating the value at risk based on the receiving the drag and drop gesture.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising communicating, over the network, an electronic message to a planning system, the electronic message causing the rescheduling of the first production run on the first production resource and automatically updating the value at risk based on the receiving the drag and drop gesture.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a production order user interface, wherein the receiving the first input causing a change to the utilization of the first production resource includes receiving the first input via the production order user interface to cause an increase in a quantity of the first product being produced in the first production run and automatically updating the value at risk based on the receiving the drag and drop gesture.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising communicating, over the network, an electronic message to a planning system causing an increase in the quantity of the first product being produced in the first production run.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the change to the utilization of the first production resource includes impacting the predicted supply chain operational metrics, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics provide a context for changing the utilization of the first production resource, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics include a capacity metric for the first production resource, a days of supply metric, and a fill rate metric.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics are updated in real time on the user interface responsive to receiving the first input causing a change to a utilization of the first production resource and wherein the user interface is scrolled to expose the predicted supply chain operational metrics organized according to a geographic region.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a production order user interface and wherein the receiving the first input includes receiving a drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element that causes the first production run to be removed from the first production resource
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the receiving the drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element further includes causing the first production run to be added to a second production resource.
10. A method comprising: receiving supply chain data, the supply chain data including a plurality of input signals relating to observed supply chain operational metrics including operational plans, the observed supply chain operational metrics being observed across a supply chain; automatically generating, using a machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, predicted supply chain operational metrics across a plurality of nodes of the supply chain, the predicted supply chain operational metrics including a value at risk associated with a scheduling of a first production run, the scheduling of the first production run including a scheduling of a production of a first product with a first production resource, the generating being performed by at least one processor. automatically inferring, using the machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, causal factors that impact the predicted supply chain operational metrics, the causal factors including a change to a utilization of the first production resource; communicating, over a network, a user interface including user interface elements, the user interface elements respectively corresponding to production runs being scheduled on the first production resource, the user interface elements including a first user interface element representing the scheduling of the first production run associated with the value at risk; and receiving a first input, over the network, the receiving the first input causing a change to the utilization of the first production resource, the change to the utilization of the first production resource impacting the predicted supply chain operational metrics including impacting the value at risk associated with the scheduling of the first production run.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the user interface includes a production run user interface, wherein the receiving the first input includes receiving a drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element on the production run user interface causing a rescheduling of the first production run on the first production resource.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising communicating, over the network, an electronic message to a planning system, the electronic message causing the rescheduling of the first production run on the first production resource.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the user interface includes a production order user interface, wherein the receiving the first input causing a change to the utilization of the first production resource includes receiving the first input via the production order user interface to cause an increase in a quantity of the first product being produced in the first production run.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising communicating, over the network, an electronic message to a planning system causing an increase in the quantity of the first product being produced in the first production run.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the change to the utilization of the first production resource includes impacting the predicted supply chain operational metrics, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics provide a context for changing the utilization of the first production resource, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics include a capacity metric for the first production resource, a days of supply metric, and a fill rate metric.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the predicted supply chain operational metrics are updated in real time on the user interface responsive to receiving the first input causing a change to a utilization of the first production resource and wherein the user interface is scrolled to expose the predicted supply chain operational metrics organized according to a geographic region.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the user interface includes a production order user interface and wherein the receiving the first input includes receiving a drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element that causes the first production run to be removed from the first production resource
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the receiving the drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element further includes causing the first production run to be added to a second production resource.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, the machine-readable medium including instructions that when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform operations comprising: receiving supply chain data, the supply chain data including a plurality of input signals relating to observed supply chain operational metrics including operational plans, the observed supply chain operational metrics being observed across a supply chain; automatically generating, using a machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, predicted supply chain operational metrics across a plurality of nodes of the supply chain, the predicted supply chain operational metrics including a value at risk associated with a scheduling of a first production run, the scheduling of the first production run including a scheduling of a production of a first product with a first production resource, the generating being performed by at least one processor. automatically inferring, using the machine learning application and the observed supply chain operational metrics, causal factors that impact the predicted supply chain operational metrics, the causal factors including a change to a utilization of the first production resource; communicating, over a network, a user interface including user interface elements, the user interface elements respectively corresponding to production runs being scheduled on the first production resource, the user interface elements including a first user interface element representing the scheduling of the first production run associated with the value at risk; and receiving a first input, over the network, the receiving the first input causing a change to the utilization of the first production resource, the change to the utilization of the first production resource impacting the predicted supply chain operational metrics including impacting the value at risk associated with the scheduling of the first production run.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the user interface includes a production run user interface, wherein the receiving the first input includes receiving a drag and drop gesture of the first user interface element on the production run user interface causing a rescheduling of the first production run on the first production resource.
</claims>
</document>
