<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JIVE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Perreault, Simon
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046860
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMICALLY CONTROLLING RELAY COMMUNICATION LINKS DURING A COMMUNICATION SESSION
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to a communication network within which relays, which are connected to devices participating in a communication session (e.g., a video conference), are dynamically added and removed from the communication session. For instance, when participating in a communication session, a sending network device sends media streams (e.g., audio and/or video media streams) to its associated relay. The relay sends, through a relay communication link, the media streams to one or more receiving relays. The one or more receiving relays then forward the media stream to associated receiving network devices. As additional network devices join the communication session, the additional network devices connect to additional relays, which establish a network of relay communication links with all the relays involved in the communication session. Furthermore, as network devices leave the communication session, relays can be removed from the communication session.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network-based communication system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instruction thereon that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: establish, by the network-based communication system, a communication session between a group of network devices, wherein each network device from the group of network devices is associated with a first relay device; detect, by the network-based communication system and during the communication session, a request to add an additional network device to the communication session, the additional network device associated with a second relay device; and generate, by the network-based communication system and based on the request to add the additional network device to the communication session, a relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device to enable communication between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device and the additional network device associated with the second relay device.
2. The network-based communication system of claim 1, wherein establishing the communication session between the group of network devices comprises: enabling, by the network-based communication system, each network device from the group of network devices to send a media stream to the first relay causing the first relay device to receive a group of media streams corresponding to the group of network devices; and enabling, by the network-based communication system, the first relay device to send a subset of media streams from the group of media streams to each network device from the group of network devices.
3. The network-based communication system of claim 2, wherein generating the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device comprises enabling the first relay device to send the group of media streams corresponding to the group of network devices to the second relay device via the relay communication link.
4. The network-based communication system of claim 3, wherein generating the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device further comprises enabling the second relay device to send an additional media stream corresponding to the additional network device to the first relay device via the relay communication link.
5. The network-based communication system of claim 4, wherein generating the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device further comprises causing the first relay device to provide the additional media steam corresponding to the additional network device to each network device in the group of network devices associated with the first relay device.
6. The network-based communication system of claim 5, wherein generating the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device further comprises causing the second relay device to provide the group of media streams corresponding to the group of network devices to the additional network device associated with the second relay device.
7. The network-based communication system of claim 1, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the network-based communication system to associate the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a number of network devices in the group of network devices associated with the first relay exceeds a device connection threshold.
8. The network-based communication system of claim 1, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the network-based communication system to associate the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a geographical distance between the first relay device and the additional network device exceeds a distance threshold.
9. The network-based communication system of claim 1, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the network-based communication system to: detect, during the communication session, a request to add a second additional network device associated with a third relay device to the communication session; generate, during the communication session, a second relay communication link between the first relay device and the third relay device to enable communication between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device and the second additional network device associated with the third relay device; and generate, during the communication session, a third relay communication link between the second relay device and the third relay device to enable communication between the additional network device associated with the second relay device and the second additional relay device associated with the third relay device.
10. The network-based communication system of claim 1, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the network-based communication system to: detect, during the communication session, that the additional network device left the communication session; and remove, in response to detecting that the additional network device left the communication session, the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device while maintaining the communication session between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device.
11. The network-based communication system of claim 1, wherein the first relay device is located within a local area network and the second relay device is located outside of the local area network.
12. The network-based communication system of claim 11, wherein: the group of network devices are located within the local network; and the additional network device is located outside the local network.
13. A method comprising: establishing, by a network-based communication system, a communication session between a group of network devices, wherein each network device from the group of network devices is associated with a first relay device; detecting, by the network-based communication system and during the communication session, a request to add an additional network device to the communication session, the additional network device associated with a second relay device; and generating, by the network-based communication system and based on the request to add the additional network device to the communication session, a relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device to enable communication between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device and the additional network device associated with the second relay device.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising associating the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a number of network devices in the group of network devices associated with the first relay exceeds a device connection threshold.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising associating the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a geographical distance between the first relay device and the additional network device exceeds a distance threshold.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: detecting, during the communication session, that the additional network device left the communication session; and remove, in response to detecting that the additional network device left the communication session, the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device while maintaining the communication session between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause a computer device to: establish a communication session between a group of network devices, wherein each network device from the group of network devices is associated with a first relay device; detect, during the communication session, a request to add an additional network device to the communication session, the additional network device associated with a second relay device; and generate, based on the request to add the additional network device to the communication session, a relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device to enable communication between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device and the additional network device associated with the second relay device.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to associate the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a number of network devices in the group of network devices associated with the first relay exceeds a device connection threshold.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to associate the second relay device with the additional network device based on determining that a geographical distance between the first relay device and the additional network device exceeds a distance threshold.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computer device to: detect, during the communication session, that the additional network device left the communication session; and remove, in response to detecting that the additional network device left the communication session, the relay communication link between the first relay device and the second relay device while maintaining the communication session between the group of network devices associated with the first relay device.
</claims>
</document>
