<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FLEXIV
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHUNG, SHUYUN
WANG, SHIQUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73017892
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROBOT-BASED INSERTION MOUNTING OF WORKPIECES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for insertion mounting workpieces are provided. In one embodiment, a method is provided that includes acquiring a position of the second fitting part of the receiving component, moving the first fitting part of the workpiece towards the second fitting part of the receiving component until the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component, and rotating the workpiece while pressing the workpiece towards the receiving component. The implementation of the present disclosure may be applied for various types of workpieces and receiving components and may overcome minor deviations of positions between the workpiece and the receiving component during the insertion operation, thereby improving the efficiency of the insertion operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: acquiring positions of a first fitting part of a workpiece and a second fitting part of a receiving component; moving the first fitting part toward the second fitting part; detecting that the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component; and rotating the workpiece while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein rotating the workpiece comprises: rotating the workpiece in place about an insertion axis of the first fitting part.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein rotating the workpiece comprises: rotating the workpiece in a circular pattern about an insertion axis of the second fitting part.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein rotating the workpiece comprises: rotating the workpiece in a cone-shaped pattern about an insertion axis of the second fitting part.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein rotating the workpiece comprises: identifying a workpiece type of the workpiece; selecting a rotation pattern from a plurality of rotation patterns based on the workpiece type; and rotating the workpiece according to the selected rotation pattern.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of rotation patterns are determined by a machine learning algorithm.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the machine learning algorithm determines the plurality of rotation patterns by: collecting data on a plurality of insertion mounting operations; analyzing the data to detect correlations between a plurality of workpiece types including the workpiece type of the workpiece; and generating a plurality of associations between at least a subset of the plurality of workpiece types and one or more rotation patterns of the plurality of rotation patterns.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting that the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component comprises: detecting one or both of a contact force and a contact torque acting on the workpiece.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, prior to rotating the workpiece, whether the workpiece and the receiving component have been successfully mounted.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining whether the workpiece and the receiving component have been successfully mounted comprises: rotating the workpiece about an insertion axis of the first fitting part while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component; detecting a contact torque acting on the workpiece; acquiring a contact position of the workpiece; and determining that the workpiece and the receiving component have been successfully mounted upon detecting that (i) the contact torque acting on the workpiece exceeds a predefined torque threshold, (ii) the contact position of the workpiece is unchanged for a predetermined period of time, and (iii) an insertion depth between the first fitting part and the second fitting part meets or exceeds a predefined insertion threshold.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the workpiece is stuck; acquiring a stuck position of the workpiece; separating the workpiece from the receiving component; applying a random change to the stuck position of the workpiece to generate a random position; moving the workpiece to the random position; and rotating the workpiece while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component from the random position.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining that the workpiece is stuck comprises: detecting one or both of a contact force and a contact torque acting on the workpiece; acquiring a contact position of the workpiece; and determining that the workpiece is stuck upon detecting that (i) one or both of the contact force exceeds a predefined force threshold and the contact torque exceeds a predefined torque threshold, and (ii) an insertion depth between the first fitting part and the second fitting part is smaller than a predefined insertion threshold.
13. A system comprising: a robotic arm; a processor; and a memory storing instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: acquire positions of a first fitting part of a workpiece and a second fitting part of a receiving component; control the robotic arm to move the first fitting part toward the second fitting part; detect that the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component; and control the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor when controlling the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece, cause the processor to control the robotic arm to perform at least one of: rotate the workpiece in place about an insertion axis of the first fitting part; rotate the workpiece in a circular pattern about an insertion axis of the second fitting part; and rotate the workpiece in a cone-shaped pattern about an insertion axis of the second fitting part.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor when controlling the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece, cause the processor to: identify a workpiece type of the workpiece; select a rotation pattern from a plurality of rotation patterns based on the workpiece type; and control the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece according to the selected rotation pattern.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor when detecting that the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component, cause the processor to: detect one or both of a contact force and a contact torque acting on the workpiece.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: control the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece about an insertion axis of the first fitting part while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component; detect a contact torque acting on the workpiece; acquire a contact position of the workpiece; and determine that the workpiece and the receiving component have been successfully mounted upon detecting that (i) the contact torque acting on the workpiece exceeds a predefined torque threshold, (ii) the contact position of the workpiece is unchanged for a predefined period of time, and (iii) an insertion depth between the first fitting part and the second fitting part meets or exceeds a predefined insertion threshold.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine that the workpiece is stuck; acquire a stuck position of the workpiece; control the robotic arm to separate the workpiece from the receiving component; apply a random change to the stuck position of the workpiece to generate a random position; control the robotic arm to move the workpiece to the random position; and control the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component from the random position.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the memory contains further instructions which, when executed by the processor when determining that the workpiece is stuck, cause the processor to: detect one or both of a contact force and a contact torque acting on the workpiece; acquire a contact position of the workpiece; and determine that the workpiece is stuck upon detecting that (i) one or both of the contact force exceeds a predefined force threshold and the contact torque exceeds a predefined torque threshold, and (ii) an insertion depth between the first fitting part and the second fitting part is smaller than a predefined insertion threshold.
20. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: acquire positions of a first fitting part of a workpiece and a second fitting part of a receiving component; control a robotic arm to move the first fitting part towards the second fitting part; detect that the workpiece is in contact with the receiving component; and control the robotic arm to rotate the workpiece while pressing the workpiece against the receiving component.
</claims>
</document>
