<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F17/18,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, XIANG
SAFAVI, TARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63794749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-Time Anomaly Detection And Correlation Of Time-Series Data
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides systems and methods for detecting and correlating anomalous time-series data. A system may receive and process time-series data associated with one or more network data streams to generate sets of aligned time-series data. The system may detect anomalous time-stamped data points in the sets of aligned time series data and generate groups of annotated time-series data. The annotation identifies specific time-stamped data points as anomalous. The system may determine the number of anomalous groups of annotated time-series data within all groups of annotated time-series data and may further determine the probability that one or more anomalous groups belong to at least one of the groups of annotated time-series data using a generative statistical model and outputting one or more correlated anomalous groups. The system may generate a detailed statistical report for each correlated anomalous group and output an aggregated statistical report for the correlated groups.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting and correlating anomalous time-series data, the method comprising: detecting anomalous time-stamped data points in each of one or more sets of aligned time-series data; annotating each of the anomalous time-stamped data points; generating, based on the annotated time-stamped data points, one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determining, based on the annotated time-series data, anomalous groups of annotated time-series data within the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determining, for each anomalous group of annotated time-series data, a probability that the anomalous group belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; and determining, based on the determined probabilities, one or more correlated anomalous groups within the anomalous groups.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the anomalous time-stamped data points in each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data is performed using one or more virtual interfaces, wherein the one or more virtual interfaces are determined based on a data type of each of the one or more sets of the aligned time-series data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the one or more of virtual interfaces may detect the anomalous time-stamped data points in parallel.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the anomalous time-stamped data points includes discretizing each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the anomalous groups within the one or more groups of annotated sets of time-series data is performed using a locality sensitive hashing algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the probability that the anomalous groups belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data and determining the one or more correlated anomalous groups is performed in parallel.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a detailed statistical report for each of the one or more correlated anomalous groups; aggregating the detailed statistical reports for each of the one or more correlated anomalous groups; and outputting the aggregated statistical report.
8. A system for detecting and correlating anomalous time-series data, the system comprising: a memory storing one or more generative statistical models; and one or more processors coupled to the memory, the one or more processors configured to: detect anomalous time-stamped data points in each of one or more sets of aligned time-series data; annotate each of the anomalous time-stamped data points; generate, based on the annotated time-stamped data points, one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determine, based on the annotated time-series data, anomalous groups of annotated time-series data within the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determine, for each anomalous group of annotated time-series data, a probability that the anomalous group belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; and determine, based on the determined probabilities, one or more correlated anomalous groups within the anomalous groups.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising one or more virtual interfaces, wherein detecting anomalous time-stamped data points in each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data is performed using the one or more virtual interfaces, wherein the one or more virtual interfaces are determined based on a data type of each of the one or more sets of the aligned time-series data.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more of virtual interfaces may detect the anomalous time-stamped data points in parallel.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein detecting anomalous time-stamped data points includes discretizing, by the one or more processors, each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the anomalous groups within the one or more groups of annotated sets of time-series data is performed using a locality sensitive hashing algorithm.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the probability that the anomalous groups belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data and determining the one or more correlated anomalous groups is performed in parallel.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: generate a detailed statistical report for each of the one or more correlated anomalous group; aggregate the detailed statistical reports for each of the one or more correlated anomalous group; and output the aggregated statistical report.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions executable by a processor for performing a method comprising: detecting anomalous time-stamped data points in each of one or more sets of aligned time-series data; annotating each of the anomalous time-stamped data points; generating, based on the annotated time-stamped data points, one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determining, based on the annotated time-series data, anomalous groups of annotated time-series data within the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; determining, for each anomalous group of annotated time-series data, a probability that the anomalous group belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data; and determining, based on the determined probabilities, one or more correlated anomalous groups within the anomalous groups.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein detecting the anomalous time-stamped data points in each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data is performed using one or more virtual interfaces, wherein the one or more virtual interfaces are determined based on a data type of each of the one or more sets of the aligned time-series data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more of virtual interfaces may detect the anomalous time-stamped data points in parallel.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein detecting anomalous time-stamped data points includes discretizing each of the one or more sets of aligned time-series data.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining the anomalous groups within the one or more groups of annotated sets of time-series data is performed using a locality sensitive hashing algorithm.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining the probability that the anomalous groups belongs to at least one of the one or more groups of annotated time-series data and determining the one or more correlated anomalous groups is performed in parallel.
</claims>
</document>
