<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11C29/00,H01L23/48,H01L23/522,H01L25/065,H01L25/18,H01L27/06,H01L27/118
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREWER, TONY M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71072924
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
3D STACKED INTEGRATED CIRCUITS HAVING FUNCTIONAL BLOCKS CONFIGURED TO PROVIDE REDUNDANCY SITES
</title>

<abstract>
A three-dimensional stacked integrated circuit (3D SIC) that can have at least a first 3D XPoint (3DXP) die and, in some examples, can have at least a second 3DXP die too. In such examples, the first 3DXP die and the second 3DXP die can be stacked. The 3D SIC can be partitioned into a plurality of columns that are perpendicular to each of the stacked dies. In such examples, when a first column of the plurality of columns is determined as failing, data stored in the first column can be replicated to a second column of the plurality of columns. Also, for example, when a part of a first column of the plurality of columns is determined as failing, data stored in the part of the first column can be replicated to a corresponding part of a second column of the plurality of columns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A circuit comprising: a first die; and a second die, wherein the first die and the second die are stacked, wherein the circuit is partitioned into a plurality of columns that are perpendicular to each of the stacked dies, wherein the circuit is configured to replicate data stored in a first column of the plurality of columns to a second column of the plurality of columns, based at least in part on a threshold number of failed operations, and wherein the second column is configured to store the data as a redundant site of the data.
2. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the first column and the second column are neighboring columns in that no column of the plurality of columns is positioned between the first and the second columns.
3. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the circuit is configured to replicate data stored in the first column of the plurality of columns to the second column of the plurality of columns, based at least in part on the threshold number of failed operations occurring within a predetermined period of time.
4. The circuit of claim 1, wherein an error detecting logic circuit in the circuit is configured to determine that the first column is failing, in response to re-use of the first column occurring over a threshold number of times to receive an expected result or in response to a bit error rate at the first column increasing above a threshold.
5. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the second column is a spare column in that it is reserved for storing a replication of data from another column that is failing and is restricted from regular use by the circuit by not being included in an available address space for operations of the circuit.
6. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the second column is a spare column in that it is reserved for storing replications of data from multiple columns that are failing and is restricted from regular use by the circuit by not being included in an available address space for operations of the circuit.
7. The circuit of claim 1, wherein the circuit is configured to select the second column to become the redundant site of the data.
8. The circuit of claim 7, further comprising a logic die, and wherein the logic die is configured to select the second column to become the redundant site of the data.
9. The circuit of claim 1, further comprising a port configured to receive instructions from an external device that is connected to the circuit by a bus, wherein the instructions are configured to select the second column to become the redundant site of the data.
10. The circuit of claim 1, wherein an error prevention logic circuit in the circuit is configured to restrict the first column from further use, in response to the determination that the first column is failing and the completion of the replication of the data to the second column.
11. A circuit, comprising: a first die; and a second die, wherein the first die and the second die are stacked, wherein the circuit is partitioned into a plurality of columns that are perpendicular to each of the stacked dies, wherein the circuit is configured to replicate data stored in a failing part of a first column of the plurality of columns to an effective part of a second column of the plurality of columns, in response to a determination that the failing part is failing, the determination that the failing part is failing being based at least in part on a threshold number of failed operations, and wherein the effective part is configured to store the data as a redundant site of the data.
12. The circuit of claim 11, wherein the failing part of the first column and the effective part of the second column are in neighboring partitions of the same die in that no partition on the same die is positioned between the neighboring partitions.
13. The circuit of claim 11, wherein the determination that the failing part is failing is based at least in part on the threshold number of failed operations occurring within a predetermined period of time.
14. The circuit of claim 11, wherein an error detecting logic circuit in the circuit is configured to determine that the failing part is failing, in response to re-use of the failing part occurring over a threshold number of times to receive an expected result or in response to a bit error rate at the failing part increasing above a threshold.
15. The circuit of claim 11, wherein the effective part of the second column is a spare part in that it is reserved for replication of data from a corresponding part of another column that is failing and is restricted from regular use by the circuit by not being included in an available address space for operations of the circuit.
16. The circuit of claim 15, wherein the second column comprises a second spare part that is reserved for replication of data from a corresponding part of a second other column that is failing.
17. The circuit of claim 11, further comprising a logic die, and wherein the logic die is configured to select the effective part of the second column to become the redundant site of the data.
18. The circuit of claim 11, further comprising a port configured to receive instructions from an external device that is connected to the circuit by a bus, wherein the instructions are executable by the circuit to select the effective part of the second column to become the redundant site of the data.
19. The circuit of claim 11, further comprising a logic die, wherein the circuit is configured to replicate at least one of data and processing logic in the failing part to the effective part, in response to a determination that the failing part is failing, wherein the effective part is configured to store the at least one of data and processing logic as a redundant site of the at least one of data and processing logic, and wherein the failing part is in a first partition of the logic die in the first column and the effective part is in a second partition of the logic die in the second column.
20. A circuit, comprising: a first die; and a second die, wherein the first die is directly stacked onto the second die without any die stacked between the first and the second dies, wherein the circuit is partitioned into a plurality of columns that are perpendicular to each of the stacked dies, wherein each column of the plurality of columns comprises a respective partition of the first die, which is a first layer of the column, and a respective partition of the second die, which is a second layer of the column, and wherein the circuit is configured to replicate data stored in the first layer of a first column to at least one of the first layer and the second layer of a second column, in response to a determination that the first layer of the first column is failing, the determination that the first layer is failing being based at least in part on a threshold number of failed operations, and wherein the at least one of the first layer and the second layer of the second column is configured to store the data as a redundant site of the data.
</claims>
</document>
