<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C11/04,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06Q30/00,G06Q40/02,G06Q50/02,H04B10/29
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SKY PERFECT JSAT CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HIRATA, Daisuke
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67063358
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Evaluation Information Generation System, Evaluation Information Generation Method, and Program
</title>

<abstract>
The evaluation information generating system of the present invention evaluates a ground area owned by a user, using satellite data observed by an artificial satellite, and includes a user information acquisition unit that acquires user information that is personal information of the user, a ground area information acquisition unit that acquires ground area information including a position of the ground area, a satellite data acquisition unit that acquires the satellite data, a situation detection unit that detects a situation of the ground area based on the satellite data, and an evaluation data generating unit that generates evaluation data of the user or the ground area based on the user information, ground area information, and situation of the ground area.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-8. (canceled)
9. An evaluation information generating system that evaluates a ground area owned by a user, using satellite data observed by an artificial satellite, the system comprising: a user information acquisition unit configured to acquire user information that is personal information of the user; a ground area information acquisition unit configured to acquire ground area information including a position of the ground area; a satellite data acquisition unit configured to acquire the satellite data; a situation detection unit configured to detect a situation of the ground area on the basis of a plurality of spectral bands of different wavelengths of electromagnetic waves sensed by a sensor of an artificial satellite, which are included in the satellite data; and an evaluation data generating unit configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area, wherein the situation of the ground area is a plurality of pieces of ground information including water, soil, and vegetation, wherein the situation detection unit is further configured to detect situations of the water, soil, and vegetation using different combinations of the spectral bands, and wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to determine whether or not double cropping is being practiced in the ground area on the basis of temporal change of the situations of the ground area.
10. An evaluation information generating system that evaluates a ground area owned by a user, using satellite data observed by an artificial satellite, the system comprising: a user information acquisition unit configured to acquire user information that is personal information of the user; a terminal comprising (1) a ground area information acquisition unit configured to acquire ground area information including a position of the ground area and (2) a satellite positioning system; a satellite data acquisition unit configured to acquire the satellite data; a situation detection unit configured to detect a situation of the ground area on the basis of the satellite data; and an evaluation data generating unit configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area, wherein the ground area information acquisition unit is further configured to generate the ground area information by obtaining information of a plurality of positions at predetermined time intervals from the satellite positioning system of the terminal that moves around an outer periphery of the ground area, and wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to determine whether or not double cropping is being practiced in the ground area on the basis of temporal change of the situation of the ground area.
11. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 9, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of a distance between the ground area and a water source in the vicinity of the ground area.
12. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 10, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of a distance between the ground area and a water source in the vicinity of the ground area.
13. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 9, wherein the situation detection unit is further configured to detect a situation of the ground area on the basis of the image data generated on the basis of the satellite data.
14. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 10, wherein the situation detection unit is further configured to detect a situation of the ground area on the basis of the image data generated on the basis of the satellite data.
15. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 13, wherein the ground area is an agricultural field, and wherein the situation detection unit is further configured to (1) detect at least one of water, soil, and vegetation as the situation on the basis of the image data, and (2) generate a map indicating a distribution for each the situation.
16. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 14, wherein the ground area is an agricultural field, and wherein the situation detection unit is further configured to (1) detect at least one of water, soil, and vegetation as the situation on the basis of the image data, and (2) generate a map indicating a distribution for each the situation.
17. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 9, further comprising: a meteorological data acquisition unit configured to acquire meteorological data, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the meteorological data, the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area.
18. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 10, further comprising: a meteorological data acquisition unit configured to acquire meteorological data, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the meteorological data, the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area.
19. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 9, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate the evaluation data using an artificial intelligence algorithm.
20. The evaluation information generating system according to claim 10, wherein the evaluation data generating unit is further configured to generate the evaluation data using an artificial intelligence algorithm.
21. An evaluation information generating method that evaluates a ground area owned by a user, using satellite data observed by an artificial satellite, the method comprising: a user information acquisition step of acquiring user information that is personal information of the user; a ground area information acquisition step of acquiring ground area information including a position of the ground area; a satellite data acquisition step of acquiring the satellite data; a situation detection step of detecting a situation of the ground area on the basis of a plurality of spectral bands of different wavelengths of electromagnetic waves sensed by a sensor of an artificial satellite, which are included in the satellite data; and an evaluation data generating step of generating evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area, wherein the situation of the ground area is a plurality of pieces of ground information including water, soil, and vegetation, wherein in the situation detection step, situations of the water, soil, and vegetation are detected using different combinations of the spectral bands, and wherein in the evaluation data generating step, whether or not double cropping is being practiced in the ground area is determined on the basis of temporal change of the situations of the ground area.
22. An evaluation information generating method that evaluates a ground area owned by a user, using satellite data observed by an artificial satellite, the method comprising: a user information acquisition step of acquiring user information that is personal information of the user; a ground area information acquisition step of acquiring ground area information including a position of the ground area; a satellite data acquisition step of acquiring the satellite data; a situation detection step of detecting a situation of the ground area on the basis of the satellite data; and an evaluation data generating step of generating evaluation data of the user or the ground area on the basis of the user information, the ground area information, and the situation of the ground area, wherein in the ground area information acquisition step, the ground area information is generated by obtaining information of a plurality of positions at predetermined time intervals from a satellite positioning system of a terminal that moves around an outer periphery of the ground area, and wherein in the evaluation data generating step, whether or not double cropping is being practiced in the ground area is determined on the basis of temporal change of the situation of the ground area.
23. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program for causing a computer to execute each step of the evaluation information generating method according to claim 21.
24. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program for causing a computer to execute each step of the evaluation information generating method according to claim 22.
</claims>
</document>
