<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06Q10/06,G06T11/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/62,G16H10/20,G16H15/00,G16H30/40,G16H40/20,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VIZ.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANSI, CHRISTOPHER
GOLAN, DAVID
Goren, Maayan
Wolfson, Avraham
Levi, Gil
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044810
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COMPUTER-AIDED TRIAGE OF STROKE
</title>

<abstract>
A system for computer-aided triage includes a router, a remote computing system, and a client application. Additionally or alternatively, the system 100 can include any number of computing systems, servers, storage, lookup table, memory, and/or any other suitable components. A method for computer-aided triage includes receiving a data packet associated with a patient and taken at a first point of care; checking for a suspected condition associated with the data packet; in an event that the suspected condition is detected, determining a recipient based on the suspected condition; and transmitting information to a device associated with the recipient.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for automatically detecting a potential brain hemorrhage, the method comprising: at a computing system: receiving a set of images associated with a patient and taken at the point of care; processing the set of images, wherein processing the set of images comprises: segmenting a hyperdense region from the set of images based on a set of deep learning models; calculating a volume of the segmented hyperdense region; automatically detecting a potential brain hemorrhage from the set of images upon determining that the volume exceeds a predetermined volume threshold; compressing the set of images; in response to detecting the potential brain hemorrhage from the set of images, automatically: determining, at the computing system, a specialist associated with a treatment of the potential brain hemorrhage; transmitting a notification and at least one image of the compressed set of images to a first recipient, wherein the first recipient is the specialist, at a client application executing on a user device associated with the specialist; and receiving an input from the specialist at the client application, wherein the input triggers an assignment of a treatment of the patient to the specialist.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the specialist is associated with a second point of care remote from the first point of care.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a first image of the at least one image of the compressed set of images, wherein the first image is provided as a thumbnail with the notification.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first image corresponds to a maximum cross section of the hyperdense region.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined volume threshold is less than 0.3 milliliters.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a read receipt at the computing system upon the specialist opening the notification, wherein in an event that the read receipt is not received within a predetermined time threshold, the method further comprises transmitting the notification and the at least one image to a second specialist at a second user device associated with the second specialist.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising checking for a set of inclusion criteria of the set of images based on metadata associated with the set of images, wherein the condition of the suspected condition is determined based on the inclusion criteria.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising, upon detecting the potential brain hemorrhage from the set of images, notifying a second recipient associated with the potential brain hemorrhage, wherein the method further comprises establishing communication between the first and second recipients.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising implementing buffering protocol, wherein the buffering protocol comprises transmitting a remainder of the compressed set of images to the first recipient at a set of times later than a first time at which the at least one image is transmitted.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of deep learning models is trained in at least a first training process and a second training process, wherein: the first training process comprises training the set of deep learning models based on a first set of images labeled as positive with respect to the brain hemorrhage and a second set of images labeled as negative with respect to the brain hemorrhage; and the second training process comprises training the set of deep learning models based on a set of outputs of the first training process, the set of outputs comprising a set of brain hemorrhages determined to be false positives.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of images are concurrently sent to a standard radiology workflow at the point of care, wherein the method at least partially overlaps with the standard radiology workflow.
12. A method for automatically detecting a potential brain hemorrhage, the method comprising: at a computing system: receiving a set of images associated with a patient and taken at the point of care; processing the set of images with a set of deep learning models, wherein processing the set of images comprises segmenting a hyperdense region from the set of images; compressing the set of images; annotating at least a portion of the compressed set of images with set of colored overlays; in response to detecting the potential brain hemorrhage from the set of images, automatically: determining, at the computing system, a recipient associated with a treatment of the potential brain hemorrhage; transmitting a notification and at least one image of the annotated images to the recipient at a client application executing on a user device associated with the recipient; and receiving an input from the recipient at the client application, wherein the input triggers an assignment of a treatment of the patient to a care team associated with the recipient.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein annotating the images further comprises adding a set of one or more parameters to the portion, wherein the set of one or more parameters comprises at least one of a volume of the hyperdense region and a severity score of the hyperdense region.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein an audio cue transmitted with the notification is selected based on the severity score.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the recipient is a specialist, where the specialist is part of a stroke care team.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: transmitting the notification and the at least one image to a second recipient at a second client application executing on a second user device associated with the second recipient, wherein the second recipient is part of the stroke care team; and establishing a communication interface between the first and second client applications.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the recipient is a principal investigator associated with a clinical trial.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising calculating a volume of the segmented hyperdense region, wherein the potential brain hemorrhage is automatically detected based on comparing the volume with a predetermined volume threshold.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein a first image of the at least one image corresponds to a maximum cross section of the hyperdense region.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the first image is provided as a thumbnail with the notification.
21. The method of claim 12, wherein the set of deep learning models is trained in at least a first training process and a second training process, wherein: the first training process comprises training the set of deep learning models based on a first set of images labeled as positive with respect to the brain hemorrhage and a second set of images labeled as negative with respect to the brain hemorrhage; and the second training process comprises training the set of deep learning models based on a set of outputs of the first training process, the set of outputs comprising a set of brain hemorrhages determined to be false positives.
</claims>
</document>
