<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G10L15/18,G10L15/19,G10L15/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAN CHUNG-HAO
MOORE; ROBERT J.
KAU, CHRIS
ARAR, RAPHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883270
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPEECH-TO-TEXT TRANSCRIPTION WITH MULTIPLE LANGUAGES
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method that includes obtaining a default language corpus. A second language corpus is obtained based on a second language preference. A first transcription of an utterance is received using the default language corpus and natural language processing (NLP). At least one problem word in the first transcription is determined based on an associated grammatical relevance to neighboring words in the first transcription. Upon determining that a first probability score is below a first threshold, an acoustic lookup is performed for an audible match for the problem word in the first transcription based on an associated acoustical relevance. Upon determining that a second probability score is below a second threshold, it is determined whether a match for the problem word exists in the secondary language corpus. Upon determining that the match exists in the secondary language corpus, a second transcription for the utterance is provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for bilingual speech-to-text (STT) transcription comprising: obtaining a default language corpus; determining the default language and a second language preference; obtaining a second language corpus based on the second language preference; receiving a first transcription of an utterance using the default language corpus and natural language processing (NLP); determining at least one problem word in the first transcription based on an associated grammatical relevance to neighboring words in the first transcription, wherein the grammatical relevance comprises a first probability score; upon determining that the first probability score is below a first threshold, performing an acoustic lookup for an audible match for the problem word in the first transcription based on an associated acoustical relevance, wherein the acoustical relevance comprises a second probability score; upon determining that the second probability score is below a second threshold, determining whether a match for the problem word exists in the secondary language corpus; and upon determining that the match exists in the secondary language corpus, providing a second transcription for the utterance.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the default language is set by an STT system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second language preference comprises obtaining the second language preference from a user profile.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first transcription is an acoustic transcription of the utterance and is based on a pre-existing corpus of transcription data from the default language.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the utterance is grammatically incorrect.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first threshold is a first probability threshold; the second threshold is a second probability threshold; and the first probability threshold and the second probability threshold are each one of user-defined and algorithmically learned.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: grammatical relevance is based on a grammar learning model; acoustical relevance is based on an acoustic learning model; STT processing is refined through use of machine learning to refine the STT processing and add more words to a corpus of transcription data; and determining the default language and the second language preference are based on probabilities of one language used in conjunction with another language based on a set of users and their associated spoken languages.
8. A computer program product for bilingual speech-to-text (STT) transcription, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: obtain, by the processor, a default language corpus; determine, by the processor, the default language and a second language preference; obtain, by the processor, a second language corpus based on the second language preference; receive, by the processor, a first transcription of an utterance using the default language corpus and natural language processing (NLP); determine, by the processor, at least one problem word in the first transcription based on an associated grammatical relevance to neighboring words in the first transcription, wherein the grammatical relevance comprises a first probability score; upon determining that the first probability score is below a first threshold, perform, by the processor, an acoustic lookup for an audible match for the problem word in the first transcription based on an associated acoustical relevance, wherein the acoustical relevance comprises a second probability score; upon determining that the second probability score is below a second threshold, determine, by the processor, whether a match for the problem word exists in the secondary language corpus; and upon determining that the match exists in the secondary language corpus, provide, by the processor, a second transcription for the utterance.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the default language is set by an STT system.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein determining the second language preference comprises obtaining the second language preference from a user profile.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the first transcription is an acoustic transcription of the utterance and is based on a pre-existing corpus of transcription data from the default language.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the utterance is grammatically incorrect.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: the first threshold is a first probability threshold; the second threshold is a second probability threshold; and the first probability threshold and the second probability threshold are each one of user-defined and algorithmically learned.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein: grammatical relevance is based on a grammar learning model; acoustical relevance is based on an acoustic learning model; STT processing is refined through use of machine learning to refine the STT processing and add more words to a corpus of transcription data; and determining the default language and the second language preference are based on probabilities of one language used in conjunction with another language based on a set of users and their associated spoken languages.
15. An apparatus comprising: a memory configured to store instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: obtain a default language corpus; determine the default language and a second language preference; obtain a second language corpus based on the second language preference; receive a first transcription of an utterance using the default language corpus and natural language processing (NLP); determine at least one problem word in the first transcription based on an associated grammatical relevance to neighboring words in the first transcription, wherein the grammatical relevance comprises a first probability score; upon determining that the first probability score is below a first threshold, perform an acoustic lookup for an audible match for the problem word in the first transcription based on an associated acoustical relevance, wherein the acoustical relevance comprises a second probability score; upon determining that the second probability score is below a second threshold, determine whether a match for the problem word exists in the secondary language corpus; and upon determining that the match exists in the secondary language corpus, provide a second transcription for the utterance.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the default language is set by a Speech-To-Text (STT) system, and determining the second language preference comprises obtaining the second language preference from a user profile.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first transcription is an acoustic transcription of the utterance and is based on a pre-existing corpus of transcription data from the default language.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the utterance is grammatically incorrect.
19. The apparatus of claim 15 wherein: the first threshold is a first probability threshold; the second threshold is a second probability threshold; and the first probability threshold and the second probability threshold are each one of user-defined and algorithmically learned.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein: grammatical relevance is based on a grammar learning model; acoustical relevance is based on an acoustic learning model; Speech-To-Text (STT) processing is refined through use of machine learning to refine the STT processing and add more words to a corpus of transcription data; and determining the default language and the second language preference are based on probabilities of one language used in conjunction with another language based on a set of users and their associated spoken languages.
</claims>
</document>
