<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPEN TEXT SA ULC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Drescher, Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73016413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ON-IMAGE NAVIGATION AND DIRECT IMAGE-TO-DATA STORAGE TABLE DATA CAPTURE
</title>

<abstract>
An on-image navigation guide can be generated utilizing coordinates of table data of a table in a document image. The on-image navigation guide enables a user to populate a data entry form with the table data by interacting directly with the document image. The data entry form is configured with the same number of columns as the table and the document image and the data entry form share the same data structure. The on-image navigation guide is presented on top of the document image. As a user navigates the document image, a focus point of the on-image navigation guide moves from table cell to table cell, providing an immediate visual feedback on what is captured in a corresponding data entry field. The on-image navigation guide includes an on-image context menu and a pin through which the user can make adjustments and/or corrections without leaving the document image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving or obtaining, by a computer, coordinates of table data of a table in a document image; generating, by the computer, an on-image navigation guide using the coordinates of the table data found in the document image; presenting, by the computer, a data entry form, the document image, and the on-image navigation guide on a display screen, the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image on the display screen, the on-image navigation guide having a focus point corresponding to a table cell on the document image; and populating, by the computer, a field of the data entry form with a value from the table cell on the document image.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving a user indication to fix the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide; locking the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide, exiting a capture mode, and entering an edit mode; and in the edit mode, receiving an instruction through the on-image navigation guide on the display and adjusting a position of a guideline of the on-image navigation guide according to the instruction, the adjusting changing a width of a bounding box used to capture the value from the table cell on the document image.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the user indication comprises a selection of a pin on the on-image navigation guide for the table cell on the document image.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises a grid of vertical lines and horizontal lines and wherein the focus point represents an intersection of the vertical lines and the horizontal lines.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises at least one of an on-image context menu, a pin, or an inspection window.
6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: receiving, through the on-image context menu of the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image, an instruction to delete a row from or insert a row into the data entry form.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the data entry form is configured with same number of columns as the table and wherein the document image and the data entry form share same data structure.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and stored instructions translatable by the processor for: receiving or obtaining coordinates of table data of a table in a document image; generating an on-image navigation guide using the coordinates of the table data found in the document image; presenting a data entry form, the document image, and the on-image navigation guide on a display screen, the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image on the display screen, the on-image navigation guide having a focus point corresponding to a table cell on the document image; and populating a field of the data entry form with a value from the table cell on the document image.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the stored instructions are further translatable by the processor for: receiving a user indication to fix the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide; locking the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide, exiting a capture mode, and entering an edit mode; and in the edit mode, receiving an instruction through the on-image navigation guide on the display and adjusting a position of a guideline of the on-image navigation guide according to the instruction, the adjusting changing a width of a bounding box used to capture the value from the table cell on the document image.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the user indication comprises a selection of a pin on the on-image navigation guide for the table cell on the document image.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises a grid of vertical lines and horizontal lines and wherein the focus point represents an intersection of the vertical lines and the horizontal lines.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises at least one of an on-image context menu, a pin, or an inspection window.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the stored instructions are further translatable by the processor for: receiving, through the on-image context menu of the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image, an instruction to delete a row from or insert a row into the data entry form.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the data entry form is configured with same number of columns as the table and wherein the document image and the data entry form share same data structure.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions translatable by a processor for: receiving or obtaining coordinates of table data of a table in a document image; generating an on-image navigation guide using the coordinates of the table data found in the document image; presenting a data entry form, the document image, and the on-image navigation guide on a display screen, the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image on the display screen, the on-image navigation guide having a focus point corresponding to a table cell on the document image; and populating a field of the data entry form with a value from the table cell on the document image.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further translatable by the processor for: receiving a user indication to fix the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide; locking the focus point in position relative to the on-image navigation guide, exiting a capture mode, and entering an edit mode; and in the edit mode, receiving an instruction through the on-image navigation guide on the display and adjusting a position of a guideline of the on-image navigation guide according to the instruction, the adjusting changing a width of a bounding box used to capture the value from the table cell on the document image.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the user indication comprises a selection of a pin on the on-image navigation guide for the table cell on the document image.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises a grid of vertical lines and horizontal lines and wherein the focus point represents an intersection of the vertical lines and the horizontal lines.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the on-image navigation guide comprises at least one of an on-image context menu, a pin, or an inspection window.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further translatable by the processor for: receiving, through the on-image context menu of the on-image navigation guide overlaying the document image, an instruction to delete a row from or insert a row into the data entry form.
</claims>
</document>
