<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/4063,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAIN, STEFAN
MEUSEL, ROBERT
TAUSCHINSKY, ATREJU FLORIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179191
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MULTIVARIATE NONLINEAR AUTOREGRESSION FOR OUTLIER DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer-readable storage media for receiving a time-series of data values associated with a plurality of sensors, each sensor generating at least a portion of the time-series of a respective data value, providing a plurality of auto-regression models, each auto-regression model being provided based on a respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data during a training process, receiving respective data values associated with a time from and generated by each of the plurality of sensors, determining respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting anomalies based on time-series sensor data, the method being executed by one or more processors and comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, a time-series of data values associated with a plurality of sensors, each sensor generating at least a portion of the time-series of a respective data value; providing, by the one or more processors, a plurality of auto-regression models, each auto-regression model being provided based on a respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data during a training process; receiving, by the one or more processors, respective data values associated with a time from and generated by each of the plurality of sensors; determining, by the one or more processors, respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models; and selectively indicating, by the one or more processors, that an anomaly is present in the system based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each auto-regression model is provided by processing the respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data through a neural network during the training process.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network comprises one of a long short-term memory (LSTM), recurrent neural network (RNN), and a gated recurrent unit (GRU) RNN.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein a size of the time-series data used to train each of the plurality of auto-regression models is determined based on a size of the neural network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein data values of the time-series data are provided from input data that is pre-processed, and normalized.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system comprises: determining a final anomaly score based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time; and indicating that an anomaly is present in response to determining that the final anomaly score exceeds a threshold anomaly score.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the final anomaly score is determined based on anomaly scores determined for each of the auto-regression models.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for detecting anomalies based on time-series sensor data, the operations comprising: receiving a time-series of data values associated with a plurality of sensors, each sensor generating at least a portion of the time-series of a respective data value; providing a plurality of auto-regression models, each auto-regression model being provided based on a respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data during a training process; receiving respective data values associated with a time from and generated by each of the plurality of sensors; determining respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models; and selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein each auto-regression model is provided by processing the respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data through a neural network during the training process.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the neural network comprises one of a long short-term memory (LSTM), recurrent neural network (RNN), and a gated recurrent unit (GRU) RNN.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein a size of the time-series data used to train each of the plurality of auto-regression models is determined based on a size of the neural network.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein data values of the time-series data are provided from input data that is pre-processed, and normalized.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system comprises: determining a final anomaly score based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time; and indicating that an anomaly is present in response to determining that the final anomaly score exceeds a threshold anomaly score.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the final anomaly score is determined based on anomaly scores determined for each of the auto-regression models.
15. A system, comprising: a computing device; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the computing device and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations for detecting anomalies based on time-series sensor data, the operations comprising: receiving a time-series of data values associated with a plurality of sensors, each sensor generating at least a portion of the time-series of a respective data value; providing a plurality of auto-regression models, each auto-regression model being provided based on a respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data during a training process; receiving respective data values associated with a time from and generated by each of the plurality of sensors; determining respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models; and selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein each auto-regression model is provided by processing the respective first sub-set of the time-series of data values used as input, and a respective second sub-set of the time-series of data values used as training data through a neural network during the training process.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the neural network comprises one of a long short-term memory (LSTM), recurrent neural network (RNN), and a gated recurrent unit (GRU) RNN.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein a size of the time-series data used to train each of the plurality of auto-regression models is determined based on a size of the neural network.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein data values of the time-series data are provided from input data that is pre-processed, and normalized.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein selectively indicating that an anomaly is present in the system comprises: determining a final anomaly score based on respective predicted values for each of the auto-regression models, and the respective data values associated with a time; and indicating that an anomaly is present in response to determining that the final anomaly score exceeds a threshold anomaly score.
</claims>
</document>
