<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/14,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICRON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Principato, Giuseppe
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046751
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatically Updating Database Records Regarding Materials Used in Manufacturing based on Scanning of Encoded Images
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes: scanning an encoded image on a physical object to obtain parameters associated with a product made using a manufacturing process; storing, in a database and based on the obtained parameters, data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process to make the product; sending, based on the stored data, a communication to a computing device requesting data regarding a first material; receiving a communication including the requested data; and in response to receiving the communication, updating the stored data regarding the first material to provide updated data regarding the first material that is stored in the database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: scanning, by a scanner, an encoded image on a physical object to obtain parameters associated with a product made using a manufacturing process; storing, by a first computing device in a database and based on the obtained parameters, first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process to make the product, wherein the materials include a first material provided by a supplier; sending, based on the stored first data, a communication to a second computing device of the supplier requesting second data regarding the first material; receiving, by the first computing device over a network, a communication including the second data; in response to receiving the communication, updating the stored first data regarding the first material to provide third data stored in the database; tracking the manufacture of the product, including tracking usage of the first material in the manufacturing process; and updating, based on tracking the usage of the first material, the stored third data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second data comprises at least one of a quantity of inventory of the first material, timing for delivery of the first material, or a characteristic of the first material.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the encoded image is a first encoded image, the method further comprising disposing a second encoded image on the product or on packaging for the product, wherein the second encoded image includes at least a portion of the first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical object is a first printed document, and the encoded image is a first encoded image, the method further comprising generating a second printed document including a second encoded image, wherein the second encoded image includes at least a portion of the first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first encoded image includes at least one customer containment rule (CCR).
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process to make the product comprises respective quantities for at least one of a raw material, a component, a sub-assembly, an intermediate assembly, a sub-component, or a part.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the supplier is a first supplier, the method further comprising automatically identifying, based on the parameters obtained from scanning the encoded image, a plurality of suppliers of materials used in the manufacturing process, wherein the plurality of suppliers includes the first supplier.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data regarding the materials is stored as a plurality of records in the database, and wherein the first data comprises an identification and a quantity for each of the materials.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first data regarding the materials is stored using a data structure having multiple levels, wherein each of first levels of the multiple levels corresponds to a respective finished material, and wherein each of a respective second level under one of the first levels corresponds to semi-finished materials or components of the respective finished material.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the first computing device and based on scanning the encoded image, an inventory of the first material; and in response to determining the inventory of the first material, updating the stored first data to indicate a quantity of the first material to reserve for use in making the product.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising, based on determining the inventory of the first material, sending, to the second computing device of the supplier, a communication requesting a quantity of the first material to be transported for use in making the product.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical object is: a paper or plastic document; a card; a label affixed to the product; a label affixed to a container that holds the product; a machine used in the manufacturing process; or a package for the product, wherein the first image is engraved on the package.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the second data regarding the first material comprises at least one of: one or more chemical processing conditions for using the first material in the manufacturing process; a testing process for testing the first material; or one or more design parameters for the first material.
14. A system comprising: a scanner configured to scan an encoded image on a physical object to obtain parameters associated with a product made using a manufacturing process; at least one processing device; and memory containing instructions configured to instruct the at least one processing device to: store, in a database and based on the parameters obtained from scanning the encoded image, first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process to make the product, wherein the materials include a first material; send, based on the stored first data, a communication to a computing device requesting second data regarding the first material; receive, over a network from the computing device, a communication including the second data; and in response to receiving the communication, update the stored first data regarding the first material to provide third data stored in the database.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the instructions are further configured to instruct the at least one processing device to: track the manufacture of the product, including tracking usage of the first material in the manufacturing process; and update, based on tracking the usage of the first material, the stored third data.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the encoded image is a first encoded image, wherein the instructions are further configured to instruct the at least one processing device to dispose a second encoded image on the product or on packaging for the product, and wherein the second encoded image includes at least a portion of the first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the second data regarding the first material comprises at least one of: one or more chemical processing conditions for using the first material in the manufacturing process; a testing process for testing the first material; or one or more design parameters for the first material.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the encoded image includes at least one customer containment rule (CCR).
19. A non-transitory computer storage medium storing instructions which, when executed on at least one processing device, cause the at least one processing device to at least: scan an encoded image on a physical object to obtain parameters associated with a product made using a manufacturing process; store, in a database and based on the obtained parameters, first data regarding materials used in the manufacturing process to make the product, wherein the materials include a first material; send, based on the stored first data, a communication to a computing device requesting second data regarding the first material; receive a communication including the second data; and in response to receiving the communication, update the stored first data regarding the first material to provide third data stored in the database.
20. The non-transitory computer storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processing device to: track the manufacture of the product, including tracking usage of the first material in the manufacturing process; and update, based on tracking the usage of the first material, the stored third data.
</claims>
</document>
