<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,H04L12/26,H04L12/813
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
MERMOUD, GRÉGORY
SAVALLE, PIERRE-ANDRÉ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68296108
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SAMPLING TRAFFIC TELEMETRY FOR DEVICE CLASSIFICATION WITH DISTRIBUTED PROBABILISTIC DATA STRUCTURES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a network element in a network maintains a probabilistic data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is not to be sent to a device classification service. The network element detects a traffic flow sent from a source device to a destination device. The network element determines whether the probabilistic data structure includes entries for both the source and destination devices of the traffic flow. The network element sends flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service, based on a determination that the probabilistic data structure does not include entries for both the source and destination of the traffic flow.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: maintaining, by a network element in a network, a probabilistic data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is not to be sent to a device classification service; detecting, by the network element, a traffic flow sent from a source device to a destination device; determining, by the network element, whether the probabilistic data structure includes entries for both the source and destination devices of the traffic flow; and sending, by the network element, flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service, based on a determination that the probabilistic data structure does not include entries for both the source and destination of the traffic flow.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the device classification service uses the flow telemetry data as part of a training dataset to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: maintaining, by the network element, a second data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is to be sent to the device classification service.
4. The method as in claim 3, further comprising: determining, by the network element, whether the second data structure includes an entry for either of the source or destination devices of the traffic flow, wherein the network element sends the flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service based in part on a determination that the second data structure includes an entry for either of the source or destination devices of the traffic flow.
5. The method as in claim 3, further comprising: determining, by the network element, that the second data structure does not include an entry for either the source and destination of the traffic flow; and adding, by the network element, an entry for the source or destination device to the second data structure, if the second data structure includes less than a threshold number of entries.
6. The method as in claim 3, further comprising: moving, by the network element, an entry in the second data structure to the probabilistic data structure after a predefined amount of time has elapsed.
7. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network element, the probabilistic data structure to a coordinator; and receiving, at the network element and from the coordinator, an updated probabilistic data structure that merges the sent data structure with one or more data structures from one or more other network elements.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein the entries in the probabilistic data structure are based on a hash table that maps device types to frequencies of occurrence of telemetry data key-value pairs.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein the probabilistic data structure comprises a Bloom filter or a Cuckoo filter.
10. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: maintain a probabilistic data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is not to be sent to a device classification service; detect a traffic flow sent from a source device to a destination device; determine whether the probabilistic data structure includes entries for both the source and destination devices of the traffic flow; and send flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service, based on a determination that the probabilistic data structure does not include entries for both the source and destination of the traffic flow.
11. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the device classification service uses the flow telemetry data as part of a training dataset to train a machine learning-based device classifier.
12. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: maintain a second data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is to be sent to the device classification service.
13. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: determine whether the second data structure includes an entry for either of the source or destination devices of the traffic flow, wherein the network element sends the flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service based in part on a determination that the second data structure includes an entry for either of the source or destination devices of the traffic flow.
14. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: determine that the second data structure does not include an entry for either the source and destination of the traffic flow; and add an entry for the source or destination device to the second data structure, if the second data structure includes less than a threshold number of entries.
15. The apparatus as in claim 12, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: move an entry in the second data structure to the probabilistic data structure after a predefined amount of time has elapsed.
16. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: send probabilistic data structure to a coordinator; and receive, from the coordinator, an updated probabilistic data structure that merges the sent data structure with one or more data structures from one or more other network elements.
17. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the entries in the probabilistic data structure are based on a hash table that maps device types to frequencies of occurrence of telemetry data key-value pairs.
18. The apparatus as in claim 10, wherein the probabilistic data structure comprises a Bloom filter or a Cuckoo filter.
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a network element to execute a process comprising: maintaining, by the network element, a probabilistic data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is not to be sent to a device classification service; detecting, by the network element, a traffic flow sent from a source device to a destination device; determining, by the network element, whether the probabilistic data structure includes entries for both the source and destination devices of the traffic flow; and sending, by the network element, flow telemetry data regarding the traffic flow to the device classification service, based on a determination that the probabilistic data structure does not include entries for both the source and destination of the traffic flow.
20. The computer-readable medium as in claim 19, wherein the process further comprises: maintaining, by the network element, a second data structure indicative of devices in the network for which telemetry data is to be sent to the device classification service.
</claims>
</document>
