<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06F9/451,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAYGARL, HO JUN
KIM, KYUNG TAE
KU, HAN JUN
SONG, GA JIN
WOO, KYOUNG GU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63584625
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE FOR PERFORMING OPERATION ACCORDING TO USER INPUT AFTER PARTIAL LANDING
</title>

<abstract>
The electronic device according to an embodiment may receive a first user input including a first request for performing a first task requiring one or more first parameters for execution, to transmit first data associated with the first user input through the communication circuit to a server including an intelligence system providing a sequence of action states for the electronic device performing at least one task using the at least one application program, to receive the first sequence of the action states for performing the first task, from the server through the communication circuit, to perform not all but part of the first sequence of the action states, based at least on the first user input, and to transmit second data associated with an action state of the electronic device caused from the performing of the part of the first sequence, to the server through the communication circuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: a housing; a display exposed through a part of the housing; a microphone; a speaker; a communication circuit; a processor electrically connected to the display, the microphone, the speaker, and the communication circuit; and a memory electrically connected to the processor, wherein the memory is configured to store at least one application program, wherein instructions stored by the memory, when executed, cause the processor to: receive a first user input including a first request for performing a first task requiring one or more first parameters for execution, wherein the first user input does not include all of the one or more first parameters, transmit first data associated with the first user input through the communication circuit to a server including an intelligence system configured to provide a first sequence of action states for the electronic device performing at least one task using the at least one application program; receive the first sequence of the action states for performing the first task, from the server through the communication circuit; perform not all but part of the first sequence of the action states, based at least on the first user input; and transmit second data associated with an action state of the electronic device caused from the performing of the part of the first sequence, to the server through the communication circuit.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the second data includes an identifier indicating the action state of the electronic device.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: while sequentially displaying at least part of changed action states on the display, perform not all but the part of the first sequence of the action states.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: provide a command through the display or the speaker, wherein the command is to receive a first parameter for performing the first task, which is missing from the first user input, from the user; receive a second user input including the missing first parameter, through the microphone or a user interface on the display; transmit third data associated with the second user input to the server through the communication circuit; and receive a second sequence of action states from the server through the communication circuit.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the second sequence of the action states includes the part of the first sequence of the action states already performed to perform the first task.
6. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: determine whether the second sequence of the action states includes the part of the first sequence of the action states already performed to perform the first task; and perform the first task based on the second sequence of the action states, without repeating the performed part of the first sequence.
7. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the second sequence of the action states is the same as the first sequence of the action states.
8. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the second sequence of the action states is different from the first sequence of the action states.
9. The electronic device of claim 6, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: after performing the first task, receive a third user input including a second request for performing a second task requiring one or more second parameters for execution, wherein the third user input does not include all of the one or more second parameters and includes at least one first parameter; transmit four data associated with the third user input to the server through the communication circuit; and receive a third sequence of action states from the server through the communication circuit.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: determine whether the third sequence of the action states includes the part of the first sequence of the action states already performed to perform the first task; and perform the second task based on the third sequence of the action states, without repeating the performed part of the first sequence.
11. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: provide a command through the display or the speaker, wherein the command is to receive a first parameter for performing the first task, which is missing from the first user input, from the user, receive a third user input including a second request for performing a second task requiring one or more second parameters for execution, wherein the third user input does not include all of the one or more second parameters and includes at least one first parameter; transmit third data associated with the third user input to the server through the communication circuit; and receive a second sequence of action states from the server through the communication circuit.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: determine whether the second sequence of the action states includes the part of the first sequence of the action states already performed to perform the first task; and perform the second task based on the second sequence of the action states, without repeating the performed part of the first sequence.
13. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the processor to: when the first user input includes the first request for performing the first task on a plurality of application programs and the received first sequence of the action states is a sequence performed on a single application program, after performing not all but the part of the first sequence of the action states, transmit the first data and information about the performed part of the first sequence of the action states, to the server through the communication circuit.
14. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the intelligence system includes at least one of a path rule-based, ontology-based or deep learning-based system.
15. An electronic device comprising: a housing; a display exposed through a part of the housing; a microphone; a speaker; a communication circuit; a processor electrically connected to the display, the microphone, the speaker, and the communication circuit; and a memory electrically connected to the processor, wherein the memory is configured to store at least one application program, wherein instructions stored by the memory, when executed, cause the processor to: receive a first user input including a first request for performing a first task requiring one or more first parameters for execution, wherein the first user input does not include all of the one or more first parameters, transmit first data associated with the first user input through the communication circuit to a server including an intelligence system including a first sequence of a plurality of action states for the electronic device performing at least one task using the at least one application program; receive the first sequence of the plurality of action states for performing the first task, from the server through the communication circuit; perform not all but part of the first sequence of the action states, based at least on the first sequence of the plurality of action states; receive a second user input including the missing first parameters, through the microphone or a user interface on the display; and perform the remaining parts of the first sequence of the action states, based on at least part of the first sequence of the action states corresponding to the received second user input, in the first sequence of the plurality of action states.
</claims>
</document>
