<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G16H10/60,G16H50/20,G16H50/70,G16H70/20,G16H80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RADECT
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOBLICK, YESHAYA
KOBLICK, REUVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR SOFTWARE CLINICAL GUIDANCE
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods and systems to aid medical practitioners with clinical decisions, in which recommendations and other information are derived utilizing a software reinforcement learning framework relating patient information to medical experiential case-files. The decision guidance systems and methods are applicable to medical and other applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A guidance system comprising: a database to store a plurality of experiential case file data sets, each including at least one outcome and state-space parameters that represent an experiential state-space for a respective predetermined patient encounter associated with the at least one outcome; an index case file data set that includes state-space parameters representing a state-space for a given patient; a reinforcement learning framework comprising: a master data set generator programmed to generate a master data set by combining the plurality of experiential case file data sets and the index case file data set into a flattened database of state-space parameters that represents an aggregate state-space for the plurality of experiential case file data sets and the index case file data set; a learning identifier calculator programmed to compute a learning identifier that includes a set of common factors based on applying the given index case file with respect to the master data set, each of the common factors in the learning identifier including a weight/score that is calculated to quantify a measure of similarity of each common factor in a current index state-space of index case file data set and the aggregate state-space of the master data set; an action interface to receive the one or more user-defined actions and/or set the predetermined policy, the learning identifier calculator to recalculate the learning identifier in response to one or more actions that cause changes in the state-space parameters for the index case state-space, corresponding to a pathway of at least one state change from the current index state-space to a next state-space based on the scored common factors determined by the learning identifier and the predetermined policy data and an action parameter describing the at least one state change; an output device to display user feedback representing at least one of an indication of an expected outcome, a proposed decision and a proposed intervention according to at least one of the current index state-space and the next-state space for the given patient.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the flattened database of state-space parameters is a matrix of the state-space parameters.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the learning identifier calculator is programmed to apply a Boolean operator to evaluate the current state-space of index case file set with respect to the aggregate state-space of the master data set.
4. The system of any of claim 1, wherein the learning identifier calculator includes a scoring function that is programmed to compute each of the scored common factors for the learning identifier to indicate a reward to transition to a new state for the index case data set.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the learning identifier calculator further comprises a pathway analyzer programmed to determine a set of one or more state transitions from an input state of the index case data set that correlate to an exploitive pathway based on the learning identifier computed for each state space along the pathway.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the pathway analyzer is programmed to compute which actions, corresponding to the set of state transitions, optimize the learning identifier scored common factors for a plurality of different explorative pathways to ascertain the exploitive pathway
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the pathway analyzer is programmed to evaluate the scored common factors computed by the learning identifier calculator for each state space along each of the plurality of explorative pathways.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein exploitive pathway corresponds to a desired or hypothesized outcome.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein each experiential case file data set corresponds to an isomorphic mapping of the state-pace parameters for a respective environment.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the scoring function is programmed to compute the scored common factors for the state-space parameters by measuring at least one of a frequency of all state-space parameters between the master data set and the index case data set, the size of overlapping cases or the number of common factors between the index case data set and the master data set.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the common factors are updated in response to receiving additional data via the action interface, wherein the additional data includes at least one of feedback provided by a user in response to a user input or sensor data received via an application program interface.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the state-space for the index case data set and the experiential case data sets comprises a hierarchical arrangement of ordered pairs of isomorphically mapped state-space parameters organized along a pathway.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the reinforcement learning framework is autonomously placed in the state space, corresponding to a patient environment, sub-environment, and/or sub-sub-environment, according to information type and/or category of the data.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the learning identifier further comprises a pathway analyzer to analyze, by perturbing or changing one or more state-space parameters for the index case data set to impose at least one state transition on the current state space, the scored common factors being recomputed based on the pathway analysis.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the pathway analyzer further comprises a look-behind pathway analyzer to analyze the state space for the index case data set by inverting the isomorphic mapping of the state-space parameters associated with the given patient.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the pathway analyzer further comprises a look-ahead pathway analyzer programmed to analyze the state space for the index case data set by analyzing the isomorphic mapping of the state-space parameters associated with the given patient.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the changes to index case data set are applied to the state-space parameters through the action interface.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the reinforcement learning framework further comprises a reasoning identifier programmed to contextualize decisions of one or more practitioners based on the learning identifier and a similarity of the index case data set and the plurality of experiential case file data sets and to generate a command or instruction executable at the action interface.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the reasoning identifier is programmed to update or modify the contextualization of decisions in response to a user input executing the command or instruction.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media having instructions programmed to perform a method comprising: storing in memory a plurality of experiential case file data sets, each including at least one outcome and state-space parameters that represent an experiential state-space for a respective predetermined patient encounter associated with the at least one outcome; storing in memory an index case file data set that includes state-space parameters representing a state-space for a given patient; a reinforcement learning framework comprising: generating a master data set by combining the plurality of experiential case file data sets and the index case file data set into a flattened database of state-space parameters that represents an aggregate state-space for the plurality of experiential case file data sets and the index case file set; computing a learning identifier that includes a set of common factors based on applying the given index case file with respect to the master data set, each of the common factors in the learning identifier including a weight/score that is calculated to quantify a measure of similarity of each common factor in a current index state-space of index case file set and the aggregate state-space of the master data set; receiving at an action interface the one or more user-defined actions and/or set the predetermined policy; in response to one or more actions that cause changes in the state-space parameters for the index case state-space, recalculating the learning identifier corresponding to a pathway of at least one state change from the current index state-space to a next state-space based on the scored common factors determined by the learning identifier and the predetermined policy data and an action parameter describing the at least one state change; displaying on an output device user feedback representing at least one of an indication of an expected outcome, a proposed decision and a proposed intervention according to at least one of the current index state-space and the next-state space for the given patient.
</claims>
</document>
