<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,H04B17/309,H04R1/40,H04R3/00,H04R3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABIN, ANDREW TODD
EICHFELD, JAHN DMITRI
PARKER, BENJAMIN DAVIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68503199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Conversation assistance audio device personalization
</title>

<abstract>
Various implementations include conversation assistance audio devices with settings that are adjustable based upon user feedback. In some cases, the conversation assistance audio device is configured to use a set of simulated audio environments to personalize audio settings for a user. In other cases, the conversation assistance audio device is configured to iteratively adjust audio settings from a baseline set of audio settings in response to user commands.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of personalizing a conversation assistance audio device, the method comprising: presenting a user of the conversation assistance audio device with a set of simulated audio environments played back at the conversation assistance audio device, wherein each simulated audio environment comprises playback at the conversation assistance audio device of a person speaking along with playback at the conversation assistance audio device of background audio; receiving feedback from the user about each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments; and adjusting at least one audio setting at the conversation assistance audio device based upon the feedback from the user and known audio characteristics of the set of simulated audio environments and the conversation assistance audio device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments comprises background audio playback at a background noise level, wherein the background noise level in all of the simulated audio environments comprises audio playback at a signal-to-noise (SNR) variation of approximately 5 decibels (dB) SNR or less.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein playback of the person speaking in each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments is at a decibel level that is greater than the background noise level.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein adjusting the at least one audio setting comprises selecting a best-fit audio setting for the conversation assistance audio device based upon the feedback received from the user about all of the simulated audio environments in the set of simulated audio environments.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the set of simulated audio environments comprises at least two simulated audio environments.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing an interface for receiving the feedback from the user, wherein the interface comprises at least one actuatable mechanism for adjusting the at least one audio setting on the conversation assistance audio device, and wherein the interface is located on the conversation assistance audio device or a computing device connected with the conversation assistance audio device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the at least one actuatable mechanism comprises at least one of: a weighted scoring mechanism, a volume adjustor or a treble/bass adjustor.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the at least one audio setting on the conversation assistance audio device is adjusted in response to the user modifying the at least one actuatable mechanism on the interface.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: scaling the adjustment to the at least one audio setting on the conversation assistance audio device based upon a scaling factor.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the scaling factor comprises an inference between audio characteristics of each of the simulated audio environments in the set of simulated audio environments and a model of real-world audio characteristics.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the scaling factor comprises a positive scaling factor, and wherein scaling the adjustment to the at least one audio setting comprises positively scaling the at least one audio setting on the conversation assistance audio device.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: creating a set of distinct audio modes based upon the feedback from the user and known audio characteristics of the set of simulated audio environments and the conversation assistance audio device.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the set of distinct audio modes comprises a set of user-selectable audio modes each correlated with distinct audio filters configured to enhance audibility of a range of frequencies for specific acoustic environments.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: switching between distinct audio modes in the set of distinct audio modes in response to detecting a change in an acoustic signature of ambient sound detected at the conversation assistance audio device.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the at least one audio setting on the conversation assistance audio device comprises adjusting a directivity of a microphone array in the conversation assistance audio device, adjusting a microphone array filter on the microphone array in the conversation assistance audio device, adjusting a volume of audio provided to the user at the conversation assistance audio device, adjusting parameters controlling wide dynamic range compression or adjusting gain parameters controlling the shape of the frequency versus gain function.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a suggested audio mode for the conversation assistance audio device to the user based upon the feedback from the user and the known audio characteristics of the set of simulated audio environments and the conversation assistance audio device, prior to adjusting the at least one setting on the conversation assistance audio device.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the at least one audio setting at the conversation assistance audio device comprises applying a signal processing modification in at least one of the conversation assistance audio device or a computing device connected with the conversation assistance audio device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments comprises audio playback at a signal-to-noise (SNR) range in which audibility limits intelligibility.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the SNR range comprises a value between approximately −5 and approximately 20.
20. 20-25. (canceled)
26. A computer-implemented method of personalizing a conversation assistance audio device, the method comprising: presenting a user of the conversation assistance audio device with a set of simulated audio environments played back at the conversation assistance audio device, wherein the set of simulated audio environments comprises at least two distinct simulated audio environments, wherein each simulated audio environment comprises playback at the conversation assistance audio device of a person speaking along with playback at the conversation assistance audio device of background audio, wherein each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments comprises audio playback at a signal-to-noise (SNR) range in which audibility limits intelligibility, the SNR range comprising a value between approximately −5 and approximately 20; receiving feedback from the user about each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments; and adjusting at least one audio setting at the conversation assistance audio device based upon the feedback from the user and known audio characteristics of the set of simulated audio environments and the conversation assistance audio device, wherein adjusting the at least one audio setting comprises selecting a best-fit audio setting for the conversation assistance audio device based upon the feedback received from the user about all of the simulated audio environments in the set of simulated audio environments.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, wherein each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments comprises background audio playback at a background noise level, wherein the background noise level in all of the simulated audio environments comprises audio playback at a signal-to-noise (SNR) variation of approximately 5 decibels (dB) SNR or less.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein playback of the person speaking in each simulated audio environment in the set of simulated audio environments is at a decibel level that is greater than the background noise level.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 26, wherein the set of simulated audio environments comprises at least three distinct simulated audio environments.
</claims>
</document>
