<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/22,G10L17/22,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAO, YU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71519906
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REMOTE SYSTEM PROCESSING BASED ON A PREVIOUSLY IDENTIFIED USER
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for implementing a "sticky" user ID are described. A system receives first input audio data and determines first speech processing results therefrom. The system also determines a first user ID of a user that spoke an utterance represented in the first input audio data and associates the first user ID with a device, which originated the first input audio data, for a predetermined length of time. The system determines first output data responsive to the first speech processing data and causes the device to present first output content corresponding thereto. The system then receives second input audio data and determines second speech processing results therefrom. The system also determines a time of receipt of the second input audio data is within the predetermined length of time. Based at least in part thereon, the system determined second output data responsive to the second speech processing data using the first user ID. The system then causes the device to present second output content corresponding to the second output data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1.-20. (canceled)
21. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from a device, first audio data corresponding to an utterance; performing speech processing on the first audio data to determine a request to perform an action; determining that authorization associated with a first user identifier (ID) is needed to perform the action; sending output data requesting permission to perform the action; receiving response data corresponding to a response to the output data; determining the response data indicates an affirmative response; determining the response data corresponds to the first user ID; and in response to the response data indicating the affirmative response and corresponding to the first user ID, causing the action to be performed.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the response data comprises second audio data and the method further comprises: determining speech characteristic data associated with the first user ID; and processing the second audio data and the speech characteristic data to determine the response data corresponds to the first user ID.
23. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the response data comprises second audio data and the method further comprises: performing speech processing using the second audio data to determine speech processing results data; and processing the speech processing results data to determine the response data indicates the affirmative response.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining the device is associated with the first user ID, wherein sending the output data comprises sending the output data to the device.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein the output data includes data corresponding to a request to use the first user ID to perform the action.
26. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, wherein causing the action to be performed comprises causing the action to be performed using data associated with the first user ID.
27. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining the utterance was spoken by a user associated with a second user ID; and determining the second user ID is not associated with authorization to perform the action.
28. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, further comprising: determining the second user ID is associated with the device for a time period; and determining the first audio data was received within the time period, wherein sending the output data is based at least in part on the first audio data being received within the time period.
29. The computer-implemented method of claim 27, wherein the output data includes information indicating the user.
30. The computer-implemented method of claim 21, further comprising: determining text data corresponding to a request for permission to perform the action; and performing text-to-speech processing using the text data to determine output audio data, wherein sending the output data comprises sending the output audio data.
31. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive, from a device, first audio data corresponding to an utterance; perform speech processing on the first audio data to determine a request to perform an action; determine that authorization associated with a first user identifier (ID) is needed to perform the action; send output data requesting permission to perform the action; receive response data corresponding to a response to the output data; determine the response data indicates an affirmative response; determine the response data corresponds to the first user ID; and in response to the response data indicating the affirmative response and corresponding to the first user ID, cause the action to be performed.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein the response data comprises second audio data and wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine speech characteristic data associated with the first user ID; and process the second audio data and the speech characteristic data to determine the response data corresponds to the first user ID.
33. The system of claim 31, wherein the response data comprises second audio data and wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: perform speech processing using the second audio data to determine speech processing results data; and process the speech processing results data to determine the response data indicates the affirmative response.
34. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the device is associated with the first user ID, wherein the instructions that cause the system to send the output data comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to send the output data to the device.
35. The system of claim 31, wherein the output data includes data corresponding to a request to use the first user ID to perform the action.
36. The system of claim 31, wherein the instructions that cause the system to cause the action to be performed comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to cause the action to be performed using data associated with the first user ID.
37. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the utterance was spoken by a user associated with a second user ID; and determine the second user ID is not associated with authorization to perform the action.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determining the second user ID is associated with the device for a time period; and determining the first audio data was received within the time period, wherein sending the output data is based at least in part on the first audio data being received within the time period.
39. The system of claim 37, wherein the output data includes information indicating the user.
40. The system of claim 31, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine text data corresponding to a request for permission to perform the action; and perform text-to-speech processing using the text data to determine output audio data, wherein the instructions that cause the system to send the output data comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to send the output audio data.
</claims>
</document>
