<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60L50/60,G06N3/04,H01M10/42,H01M10/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAJIMA, Ryota
MIKAMI, Mayumi
SHISHIDO, Hideaki
YOSHIZUMI, Kensuke
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65633722
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER STORAGE SYSTEM, VEHICLE, ELECTRONIC DEVICE, AND SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor element with excellent characteristics is provided. An electronic device including a power storage system with excellent characteristics is provided. A vehicle including a power storage system with excellent characteristics is provided. A novel semiconductor device is provided. The power storage system includes a storage battery, a neural network, and a sensor element; the neural network includes an input layer, an output layer, and one or a plurality of middle layers provided between the input layer and the output layer; a value corresponding to a first signal output from the sensor element is supplied to the input layer; the first signal is an analog signal; the sensor element includes a region in contact with a surface of the storage battery; and the sensor element has a function of measuring one or both of strain and temperature.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power storage system comprising: a storage battery, a neural network, and a sensor element, wherein the neural network comprises an input layer, an output layer, and one or a plurality of middle layers provided between the input layer and the output layer, wherein a value corresponding to a first signal output from the sensor element is supplied to the input layer, wherein the first signal is an analog signal, wherein the sensor element comprises a region in contact with a surface of the storage battery, and wherein the sensor element is configured to measure one or both of strain and temperature.
2. A power storage system comprising: a storage battery, a neural network, a first circuit, and a sensor element, wherein the neural network comprises an input layer, an output layer, and one or a plurality of middle layers provided between the input layer and the output layer, wherein a first signal output from the sensor element is supplied to the first circuit, wherein the first signal is an analog signal, wherein the first circuit is configured to convert the first signal into a digital signal and supply the converted digital signal to the input layer, wherein the sensor element comprises a region in contact with a surface of the storage battery, and wherein the sensor element is configured to measure one or both of strain and temperature.
3. A power storage system comprising: a storage battery, a neural network, a first circuit, a second circuit, and a sensor element, wherein the neural network comprises an input layer, an output layer, and one or a plurality of middle layers provided between the input layer and the output layer, wherein a first signal output from the sensor element is supplied to the first circuit, wherein the first signal is an analog signal, wherein the first circuit is configured to convert the first signal into a second signal that is a digital signal, wherein the first circuit is configured to modulate the second signal and supply the modulated signal to the second circuit through wireless communication, wherein the second circuit is configured to demodulate the signal supplied from the first circuit through wireless communication and supply the signal to the input layer, wherein the sensor element comprises a region in contact with a surface of the storage battery, and wherein the sensor element is configured to measure one or both of strain and temperature.
4. The power storage system according to claim 1, wherein the sensor element starts sensing in response to a charging voltage of the storage battery.
5. The power storage system according to claim 2, wherein the sensor element starts sensing in response to an analysis result of a change in a current value of the storage battery over time by the neural network.
6. The power storage system according to claim 1, wherein the neural network comprises a first transistor, a capacitor, and a second transistor, wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the capacitor and a gate of the second transistor, wherein a channel formation region of the first transistor comprises a metal oxide, wherein the metal oxide comprises indium and an element M, wherein the element M is one or more elements selected from aluminum, gallium, tin, boron, silicon, titanium, iron, nickel, germanium, yttrium, zirconium, molybdenum, lanthanum, cerium, neodymium, hafnium, tantalum, and tungsten, and wherein a potential corresponding to an analog signal is held in the one of the source and the drain of the first transistor.
7. A vehicle comprising the power storage system according to claim 1.
8. An electronic device comprising the power storage system according to claim 1.
9. A semiconductor device comprising: a neural network, a first circuit, and a second circuit, wherein the neural network comprises an input layer, an output layer, and one or a plurality of middle layers provided between the input layer and the output layer, wherein a measurement value of one or both of strain and temperature is supplied to the first circuit as a first signal, wherein the first signal is an analog signal, wherein the first circuit is configured to convert the first signal into a second signal that is a digital signal, wherein the first circuit is configured to modulate the second signal and supply the modulated signal to the second circuit through wireless communication, and wherein the second circuit is configured to demodulate the signal supplied from the first circuit through wireless communication and supply the signal to the input layer.
10. The power storage system according to claim 2, wherein the sensor element starts sensing in response to a charging voltage of the storage battery.
11. The power storage system according to claim 2, wherein the neural network comprises a first transistor, a capacitor, and a second transistor, wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the capacitor and a gate of the second transistor, wherein a channel formation region of the first transistor comprises a metal oxide, wherein the metal oxide comprises indium and an element M, wherein the element M is one or more elements selected from aluminum, gallium, tin, boron, silicon, titanium, iron, nickel, germanium, yttrium, zirconium, molybdenum, lanthanum, cerium, neodymium, hafnium, tantalum, and tungsten, and wherein a potential corresponding to an analog signal is held in the one of the source and the drain of the first transistor.
12. A vehicle comprising the power storage system according to claim 2.
13. An electronic device comprising the power storage system according to claim 2.
14. The power storage system according to claim 3, wherein the sensor element starts sensing in response to a charging voltage of the storage battery.
15. The power storage system according to claim 3, wherein the sensor element starts sensing in response to an analysis result of a change in a current value of the storage battery over time by the neural network.
16. The power storage system according to claim 3, wherein the neural network comprises a first transistor, a capacitor, and a second transistor, wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to one electrode of the capacitor and a gate of the second transistor, wherein a channel formation region of the first transistor comprises a metal oxide, wherein the metal oxide comprises indium and an element M, wherein the element M is one or more elements selected from aluminum, gallium, tin, boron, silicon, titanium, iron, nickel, germanium, yttrium, zirconium, molybdenum, lanthanum, cerium, neodymium, hafnium, tantalum, and tungsten, and wherein a potential corresponding to an analog signal is held in the one of the source and the drain of the first transistor.
17. A vehicle comprising the power storage system according to claim 3.
18. An electronic device comprising the power storage system according to claim 3.
</claims>
</document>
