<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/08,G10L17/00,G10L25/66,G16H50/30,G16H50/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE ZILWA, SHANE
EDWARDS, ERIK
SIROTA, CHRISTOPHER
Poorjam, Amir
Lew, Keith L.
Irwin, Nicholas
Avila, Flavio
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73549497
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and Methods for Machine Learning of Voice Attributes
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for machine learning of voice and other attributes are provided. The system receives input data, isolates predetermined sounds from isolated speech of a speaker of interest, summarizes the features to generate variables that describe the speaker, and generates a predictive model for detecting a desired feature of a person Also provided are systems and methods for detecting one or more attributes of a speaker based on analysis of audio samples or other types of digitally-stored information (e.g, videos, photos, etc.).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting one or more pre-determined attributes of a person from one or more voice samples and undertaking one or more actions in response to the one or more detected attributes, comprising: a processor receiving audio samples of a person from a source; and voice attribute detection code executed by the processor, the code causing the processor to: processing first and second audio samples of the person using a predictive voice model, the first audio sample including a recording of the person made at a first time, the second audio sample including a recording of the person made at a second time later than the first time; detecting whether a pre-determined attribute of the person exists based on processing of the first and second audio samples, and if the pre-determined attribute of the speaker is detected, undertaking an action based on the pre-determined attribute.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first audio sample and the second audio sample each include a recording of one or more of the speaker's voice, speech, singing, breathing, coughing, noises, timbre, intonation, cadence, speech patterns, or a detectible audible signature emanating from a vocal tract of the speaker.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first audio sample and the second audio sample each include a recording of the speaker speaking a same phrase in both samples.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor generates and transmits an alert regarding the pre-determined attribute if the pre-determined attribute of the speaker is detected.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the alert is transmitted to a third party, the third party taking an action in response to the alert.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the third party includes one or more of a medical provider, a governmental entity, or a research entity.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein, in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute, the system determines whether one or more other persons geographically proximate to the person also have the pre-determined attribute.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the system broadcasts an alert to the one or more other persons relating to the pre-determined attribute.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-determined attribute indicates one or more of a respiratory condition, age, gender, general vocal pathology, regional accent, body size, attractiveness, sexuality, social status, personality, emotion, deception, sleepiness, hydration, stress, Sjögren's syndrome, arthritis, dementia, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, reflux, alcohol intoxication, epidemiology, cannabis intoxication, blood oxygen levels, a medical condition, a respiratory symptom, a respiratory ailment, an illness, a neurological illness, a neurological disorder, a mood, a physiological characteristic, or an attribute that manifests through perceptible changes in the person's voice.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second audio samples are obtained using one or more of a computer system, a smart phone, a smart speaker, a voice mail recording, a voice mail server, a voice mail greeting, recorded audio samples, one or more video clips, or a social media platform.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein, in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute, the system requests the person to record a further audio sample for further processing by the system.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the system processes the further audio sample to detect one or more of an onset or a progression of a medical condition being experienced by the person.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the system transmits information about the pre-determined attribute to a medical provider in order to triage medical for the person.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the system prompts the person to record a common phrase as both the first audio sample and the second audio sample.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the system identifies a geographic location of the person.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the system performs cluster analysis in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the system time stamps the first and the second audio samples.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes one or more of biometric data, medical records, weather data, climate data, imagery, calendar information, or self-reported information.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is operated by an employer or insurance provider to verify whether the person is suffering from an illness.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein tracking, detection, and control of entry of the person into a business or a venue is performed in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein detection of one or more allergies being suffered is performed by the system in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein contract tracing is performed in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system obtains information relating to one or more of travel manifests, ports of entry, security check-in times, public transportation usage information, or transportation-related information in order to create a tailored alert or warning relating to the pre-determined attribute.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein authentication of the person is performed based on the pre-determined attribute.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes non-audio information to verify detection of the pre-determined attribute.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes information about the person's body position when determining whether the pre-existing attribute exists.
27. The system of claim 1, wherein the system communicates with one or more second systems for detecting the pre-determined attribute and generates a heat map corresponding to the pre-determined attribute.
28. The system of claim 1, wherein the system compensates for background noise in the first and second audio samples.
29. The system of claim 1, wherein the system transmits information about the pre-determined attribute to a telemedicine system to allow a doctor to remotely examine the person.
30. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes genomic data in order to identify and distinguish a geographic path of a virus.
31. The system of claim 1, wherein the system links vocal patterns to health data of the person.
32. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes epidemiological data when processing the first and second audio samples.
33. The system of claim 1, wherein the system processes one or more images of the person's body part in order to detect one or more respiratory or medical conditions.
34. The system of claim 1, wherein the system performs archetypal detection of one or more medical conditions using the first and second audio samples.
35. The system of claim 1, wherein the system triggers recording of the first and second audio samples in response to detection by the system of a cough made by the person.
36. The system of claim 1, wherein community medical surveillance is performed in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
37. The system of claim 1, wherein the system performs monitoring and tracking of exposure of one or more healthcare workers in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
38. The system of claim 1, wherein medical testing of one or more individuals is performed in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
39. The system of claim 1, wherein the system transmits a notice to a first responder in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute in advance of the person being transported to a medical facility by the first responder.
40. The system of claim 1, wherein the system transmits information about the pre-determined attribute to a ride-sharing system in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
41. A method for detecting one or more pre-determined attributes of a person from one or more voice samples and undertaking one or more actions in response to the one or more detected attributes, comprising the steps of: processing first and second audio samples of a person using a predictive voice model executed by a processor, the first audio sample including a recording of the person made at a first time, the second audio sample including a recording of the person made at a second time later than the first time; detecting whether a pre-determined attribute of the person exists based on processing of the first and second audio samples, and if the pre-determined attribute of the speaker is detected, undertaking an action based on the pre-determined attribute.
42. The method of claim 41, wherein the first audio sample and the second audio sample each include a recording of one or more of the speaker's voice, speech, singing, breathing, coughing, noises, timbre, intonation, cadence, speech patterns, or a detectible audible signature emanating from a vocal tract of the speaker.
43. The method of claim 41, wherein the first audio sample and the second audio sample each include a recording of the speaker speaking a same phrase in both samples.
44. The method of claim 41, further comprising generating and transmitting an alert regarding the pre-determined attribute if the pre-determined attribute of the speaker is detected.
45. The method of claim 44, wherein the alert is transmitted to a third party, the third party taking an action in response to the alert.
46. The method of claim 45, wherein the third party includes one or more of a medical provider, a governmental entity, or a research entity.
47. The method of claim 41 further comprising: in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute, determining whether one or more other persons geographically proximate to the person also have the pre-determined attribute.
48. The method of claim 47, further comprising broadcasting an alert to the one or more other persons relating to the pre-determined attribute.
49. The method of claim 41, wherein the pre-determined attribute indicates one or more of a respiratory condition, age, gender, general vocal pathology, regional accent, body size, attractiveness, sexuality, social status, personality, emotion, deception, sleepiness, hydration, stress, Sjögren's syndrome, arthritis, dementia, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, reflux, alcohol intoxication, epidemiology, cannabis intoxication, blood oxygen levels, a medical condition, a respiratory symptom, a respiratory ailment, an illness, a neurological illness, a neurological disorder, a mood, a physiological characteristic, or an attribute that manifests through perceptible changes in the person's voice.
50. The method of claim 41, wherein the first and second audio samples are obtained using one or more of a computer system, a smart phone, a smart speaker, a voice mail recording, a voice mail server, a voice mail greeting, recorded audio samples, one or more video clips, or a social media platform.
51. The method of claim 41 further comprising: in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute, requesting the person to record a further audio sample for further processing by the system.
52. The method of claim 51, further comprising processing the further audio sample to detect one or more of an onset or a progression of a medical condition being experienced by the person.
53. The method of claim 41, further comprising transmitting information about the pre-determined attribute to a medical provider in order to triage medical for the person.
54. The method of claim 41, further comprising prompting the person to record a common phrase as both the first audio sample and the second audio sample.
55. The method of claim 41, further comprising identifying a geographic location of the person.
56. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing cluster analysis in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute.
57. The method of claim 41, further comprising time stamping the first and the second audio samples.
58. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing one or more of biometric data, medical records, weather data, climate data, imagery, calendar information, or self-reported information.
59. The method of claim 41, further comprising verifying whether the person is suffering from an illness.
60. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing tracking, detection, and control of entry of the person into a venue or a business in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
61. The method of claim 41, further comprising detecting one or more allergies being suffered by the person in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
62. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing contract tracing in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
63. The method of claim 41, further comprising obtaining information relating to one or more of travel manifests, ports of entry, security check-in times, public transportation usage information, or transportation-related information in order to create a tailored alert or warning relating to the pre-determined attribute.
64. The method of claim 41, further comprising authenticating the person based on the pre-determined attribute.
65. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing non-audio information to verify detection of the pre-determined attribute.
66. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing information about the person's body position when determining whether the pre-existing attribute exists.
67. The method of claim 41, further comprising communicating with one or more second systems for detecting the pre-determined attribute and generating a heat map corresponding to the pre-determined attribute.
68. The method of claim 41, further comprising compensating for background noise in the first and second audio samples.
69. The method of claim 41, further comprising transmitting information about the pre-determined attribute to a telemedicine system to allow a doctor to remotely examine the person.
70. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing genomic data in order to identify and distinguish a geographic path of a virus.
71. The method of claim 41, further comprising linking vocal patterns to health data of the person.
72. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing epidemiological data when processing the first and second audio samples.
73. The method of claim 41, further comprising processing one or more images of the person's body part in order to detect one or more respiratory or medical conditions.
74. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing archetypal detection of one or more medical conditions using the first and second audio samples.
75. The method of claim 41, further comprising triggering recording of the first and second audio samples in response to detection of a cough made by the person.
76. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing community medical surveillance in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute.
77. The method of claim 41, further comprising performing monitoring and tracking of exposure of one or more healthcare workers in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute.
78. The method of claim 41, further comprising testing of one or more individuals in response to detection by the system of the pre-determined attribute.
79. The method of claim 41, further comprising transmitting a notice to a first responder in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute in advance of the person being transported to a medical facility by the first responder.
80. The method of claim 41, further comprising transmitting information about the pre-determined attribute to a ride-sharing system in response to detection of the pre-determined attribute.
</claims>
</document>
