<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/16,G06F9/451,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q20/10,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MX TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Mukul, Saumya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72605264
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ACCESSIBLE REMOTE DEPOSIT CAPTURE
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatuses, methods, program products, and systems are disclosed for accessible remote deposit capture. An apparatus includes a position module that determines a position of a hardware device relative to a document based on input captured from a camera of the hardware device. An apparatus includes a direction module that determines one or more directions for moving a hardware device relative to a document to position the document within a predefined area of a field of view of a camera. An apparatus includes an accessibility module that provides accessibility feedback via a hardware device based on determined one or more directions. Accessibility feedback includes feedback for assisting a user that has a visual impairment with positioning a hardware device such that a document is within a predefined area of a field of view of a camera.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a position module that is configured to determine a position of a hardware device relative to a document based on input captured from a camera of the hardware device; a direction module that is configured to determine one or more directions for moving the hardware device relative to the document to position the document within a predefined area of a field of view of the camera; and an accessibility module that is configured to provide accessibility feedback via the hardware device based on the determined one or more directions, the accessibility feedback comprising feedback for assisting a user that has a visual impairment with positioning the hardware device such that the document is within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more directions for moving the hardware device comprises one or more of body relative directions and orientation directions.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility feedback comprises one or more voice commands emitted from the hardware device that instruct the user to move the hardware device in the one or more directions.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility feedback comprises haptic feedback generated by one or more sensors of the hardware device, the haptic feedback generated for one or more portions of the hardware device to indicate to the user one of: to move the hardware device in a direction of the one or more directions associated with the haptic feedback; and that a portion of the document is in a correct location within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera associated with the haptic feedback.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the one or more portions of the hardware device comprises one or more of an edge of the hardware device and a corner of the hardware device.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility feedback comprises one or more audible tones generated by the hardware device, the one or more audible tones generated to indicate to the user one of: to move the hardware device in a direction of the one or more directions associated with the one or more audible tones; and that a portion of the document is in a correct location within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera associated with the one or more audible tones.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the one or more audible tones comprises different tones each for a different portion of the hardware device, the different portions of the hardware device comprising one or more of an edge of the hardware device and a corner of the hardware device.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein a frequency with which the one or more audible tones is generated is determined as a function of a distance between a portion of the document and a corresponding portion of the predefined area of the field of view of the camera.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility module provides accessibility feedback indicating the document is an acceptable position within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility feedback further indicates one or more of a speed and a distance for the user to move the hardware device relative to the document.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the accessibility module is further configured to adjust one or more camera settings for the camera based on the position of the hardware device relative to the document and one or more environmental conditions where the hardware device is located.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the accessibility module is communicatively coupled to one or more environment devices associated with the one or more environmental conditions where the hardware device is located and is further configured to modify one or more settings of the environment devices to adjust the one or more environmental conditions.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the document comprises a financial document associated with a financial institution.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the camera is enabled in response to a mobile document submission function of a mobile application provided by the financial institution being executed on the hardware device.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the predefined area of the field of view of the camera is defined by the mobile application provided by the financial institution.
16. A method, comprising: determining a position of a hardware device relative to a document based on input captured from a camera of the hardware device; determining one or more directions for moving the hardware device relative to the document to position the document within a predefined area of a field of view of the camera; and providing accessibility feedback via the hardware device based on the determined one or more directions, the accessibility feedback comprising feedback for assisting a user that has a visual impairment with positioning the hardware device such that the document is within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more directions for moving the hardware device comprises one or more of body relative directions and orientation directions.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the accessibility feedback comprises one or more voice commands emitted from the hardware device that instruct the user to move the hardware device in the one or more directions.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the accessibility feedback comprises haptic feedback generated by one or more sensors of the hardware device, the haptic feedback generated for one or more portions of the hardware device to indicate to the user one of: to move the hardware device in a direction of the one or more directions associated with the haptic feedback; and that a portion of the document is in a correct location within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera associated with the haptic feedback.
20. An apparatus, comprising: means for determining a position of a hardware device relative to a document based on input captured from a camera of the hardware device; means for determining one or more directions for moving the hardware device relative to the document to position the document within a predefined area of a field of view of the camera; and means for providing accessibility feedback via the hardware device based on the determined one or more directions, the accessibility feedback comprising feedback for assisting a user that has a visual impairment with positioning the hardware device such that the document is within the predefined area of the field of view of the camera.
</claims>
</document>
