<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/25,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAGOTA, ARUN KUMAR
GEORGIEV, STANISLAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EFFICIENTLY AND ACCURATELY ASSESSING THE NUMBER OF IDENTIFIABLE RECORDS FOR CREATING PERSONAL PROFILES
</title>

<abstract>
A system determines a name probability based on a first name dataset frequency of a first name value stored by a first name field in a personal record and a last name dataset frequency of a last name value stored by a last name field in a personal record. The system determines at least one other probability based on another dataset frequency of another value stored by another field in the personal record and an additional dataset frequency of an additional value stored by an additional field in the personal record. The system determines a combined probability based on the name probability and the at least one other probability. The system increments a count of identifiable personal records for each personal record that has a corresponding combined probability that satisfies an identifiability threshold. The system outputs a message based on the count of identifiable personal records.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for efficiently and accurately assessing the number of identifiable records for creating personal profiles, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer readable medium storing a plurality of instructions, which when executed, cause the one or more processors to: determine a name probability based on a first name dataset frequency of a first name value stored by a first name field in a personal record and a last name dataset frequency of a last name value stored by a last name field in the personal record; determine at least one other probability based on another dataset frequency of another value stored by another field in the personal record and an additional dataset frequency of an additional value stored by an additional field in the personal record; determine a combined probability based on the name probability and the at least one other probability; increment a count of identifiable personal records for each personal record that has a corresponding combined probability that satisfies an identifiability threshold; and output a message based on the count of identifiable personal records.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first name dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency are one of independent frequencies, dependent frequencies, and based on a combination of independent frequencies and dependent frequencies.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one other probability comprises an email address probability based on at least one of an email prefix dataset frequency of an email prefix value stored by an email prefix field in the personal record and an email domain dataset frequency of an email domain value stored by an email domain field in the personal record, the email prefix dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency being dependent frequencies.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a physical address probability based on at least one of a street dataset frequency of a street value stored by a street field in the personal record, a city dataset frequency of a city value stored by a city field in the personal record, a postal code dataset frequency of a postal code value stored by a postal code field in the personal record, a state dataset frequency of a state value stored by a state field in the personal record, and a country dataset frequency of a country value stored by a country field in the personal record.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a phone number probability based on at least one of an international code dataset frequency of an international code value stored by an international code field in the personal record, a region code dataset frequency of a region code value stored by a region code field in the personal record, a middle digits dataset frequency of a middle digits value stored by a middle digits field in the personal record. and a trailing digits dataset frequency of a trailing digits value stored by a trailing digits field in the personal record value.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the country dataset frequency and the international phone number dataset frequency are dependent frequencies.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of instructions, when executed, will further cause the one or more processors to: determine whether the count of identifiable personal records relative to a count of all personal records satisfies a personal profiles creation threshold; and recommend a delay in creating personal profiles based on the identifiable personal records in response to a determination that the count of identifiable personal records relative to the count of all personal records fails to satisfy the personal profiles creation threshold.
8. A computer program product for efficiently and accurately assessing the number of identifiable records for creating personal profiles, comprising computer-readable program code to be executed by one or more processors when retrieved from a non-transitory computer-readable medium, the program code including instructions to: determine a name probability based on a first name dataset frequency of a first name value stored by a first name field in a personal record and a last name dataset frequency of a last name value stored by a last name field in the personal record; determine at least one other probability based on another dataset frequency of another value stored by another field in the personal record and an additional dataset frequency of an additional value stored by an additional field in the personal record; determine a combined probability based on the name probability and the at least one other probability; increment a count of identifiable personal records for each personal record that has a corresponding combined probability that satisfies an identifiability threshold; and output a message based on the count of identifiable personal.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the first name dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency are one of independent frequencies, dependent frequencies, and based on a combination of independent frequencies and dependent frequencies.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the at least one other probability comprises an email address probability based on at least one of an email prefix dataset frequency of an email prefix value stored by an email prefix field in the personal record and an email domain dataset frequency of an email domain value stored by an email domain field in the personal record, the email prefix dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency being dependent frequencies.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a physical address probability based on at least one of a street dataset frequency of a street value stored by a street field in the personal record, a city dataset frequency of a city value stored by a city field in the personal record, a postal code dataset frequency of a postal code value stored by a postal code field in the personal record, a state dataset frequency of a state value stored by a state field in the personal record, and a country dataset frequency of a country value stored by a country field in the personal record.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a phone number probability based on at least one of an international code dataset frequency of an international code value stored by an international code field in the personal record, a region code dataset frequency of a region code value stored by a region code field in the personal record, a middle digits dataset frequency of a middle digits value stored by a middle digits field in the personal record. and a trailing digits dataset frequency of a trailing digits value stored by a trailing digits field in the personal record value.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the country dataset frequency and the international phone number dataset frequency are dependent frequencies.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program code further includes instructions to: determine whether the count of identifiable personal records relative to a count of all personal records satisfies a personal profiles creation threshold; and recommend a delay in creating personal profiles based on the identifiable personal records in response to a determination that the count of identifiable personal records relative to the count of all personal records fails to satisfy the personal profiles creation threshold.
15. A method for efficiently and accurately assessing the number of identifiable records for creating personal profiles, comprising: determining a name probability based on a first name dataset frequency of a first name value stored by a first name field in a personal record and a last name dataset frequency of a last name value stored by a last name field in the personal record; determining at least one other probability based on another dataset frequency of another value stored by another field in the personal record and an additional dataset frequency of an additional value stored by an additional field in the personal record; determining a combined probability based on the name probability and the at least one other probability; incrementing a count of identifiable personal records for each personal record that has a corresponding combined probability that satisfies an identifiability threshold; and output a message based on the count of identifiable personal records.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the first name dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency are one of independent frequencies, dependent frequencies, and based on a combination of independent frequencies and dependent frequencies.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one other probability comprises an email address probability based on at least one of an email prefix dataset frequency of an email prefix value stored by an email prefix field in the personal record and an email domain dataset frequency of an email domain value stored by an email domain field in the personal record, the email prefix dataset frequency and the last name dataset frequency being dependent frequencies.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a physical address probability based on at least one of a street dataset frequency of a street value stored by a street field in the personal record, a city dataset frequency of a city value stored by a city field in the personal record, a postal code dataset frequency of a postal code value stored by a postal code field in the personal record, a state dataset frequency of a state value stored by a state field in the personal record, and a country dataset frequency of a country value stored by a country field in the personal record.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one other probability comprises a phone number probability based on at least one of an international code dataset frequency of an international code value stored by an international code field in the personal record, a region code dataset frequency of a region code value stored by a region code field in the personal record, a middle digits dataset frequency of a middle digits value stored by a middle digits field in the personal record. and a trailing digits dataset frequency of a trailing digits value stored by a trailing digits field in the personal record value, the country dataset frequency and the international phone number dataset frequency being dependent frequencies.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: determine whether the count of identifiable personal records relative to a count of all personal records satisfies a personal profiles creation threshold; and recommending not to create personal profiles based on the identifiable personal records in response to a determination that the count of identifiable personal records relative to the count of all personal records fails to satisfy the personal profiles creation threshold.
</claims>
</document>
