<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,A61J7/00,G06F3/01,G06N5/04,G16H20/13,G16H40/67,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
VLEUGELS, KATELIJN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72423710
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED DETECTION OF A PHYSICAL BEHAVIOR EVENT AND CORRESPONDING ADJUSTMENT OF A MEDICATION DISPENSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An automated medication dosing and dispensing system includes sensors to detect physical movement of a user; storage media with program instructions; and a processor. The program instructions cause the processor to: detect, based on analysis of sensor readings obtained from the sensors, occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; store historical event information corresponding to the detected occurrences; process the stored historical event information to predict a future occurrence of a physical behavior event of interest; and adjust medication dosage and/or medication dispensing parameters in response to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automated medication dosing and dispensing system comprising: sensors to detect physical movement of a user of the automated medication dosing and dispensing system; computer-readable storage media comprising program code instructions; and at least one processor, wherein the program code instructions are configurable to cause the at least one processor to perform a method comprising the steps of: detecting, based on analysis of sensor readings obtained from the sensors, occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; storing historical event information corresponding to the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; processing the stored historical event information to predict a future occurrence of a physical behavior event of interest; and adjusting medication dosage, medication dispensing parameters, or both medication dosage and medication dispensing parameters in response to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing step comprises processing the stored historical event information and at least one ancillary input received from a detection system that is distinct from the sensors.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing step comprises processing the stored historical event information and current sensor readings obtained from the sensors in real-time, including comparing the current sensor readings to the stored historical event information.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the sensor readings measures a movement of a specific body part of the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the method performed by the at least one processor further comprises the step of sending a message to the user, wherein the message relates to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events correspond to food intake events; and the adjusting is performed in response to a predicted food intake event.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the medication managed by the system is insulin; and the adjusting step calculates a dosage of insulin to be administered.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the method performed by the at least one processor further comprises the step of calculating a confidence level for the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest; and the adjusting is performed in response to the confidence level.
9. A method of operating an automated medication dosing and dispensing system having sensors that detect movement of a user, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining sensor readings from the sensors; detecting, based on analysis of the obtained sensor readings, occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; storing historical event information corresponding to the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; processing, with at least one processor of the automated medication dosing and dispensing system, the stored historical event information to predict a future occurrence of a physical behavior event of interest; and adjusting medication dosage, medication dispensing parameters, or both medication dosage and medication dispensing parameters in response to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the processing step comprises processing the stored historical event information and at least one ancillary input received from a detection system that is distinct from the sensors.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein: the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events correspond to food intake events; and the at least one ancillary input comprises information that is not directly related to food intake events.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein at least one of the sensor readings measures a movement of a specific body part of the user.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of sending a message to the user, wherein the message relates to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein: the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events correspond to food intake events; and the adjusting is performed in response to a predicted food intake event.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein: the medication managed by the system is insulin; and the adjusting step calculates a dosage of insulin to be administered.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising the step of calculating a confidence level for the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest, wherein the adjusting is performed in response to the confidence level.
17. A method of operating an automated medication dosing and dispensing system having sensors that detect movement, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining sensor readings from the sensors, the sensor readings indicating movement of at least one body part of the user; detecting, based on analysis of the obtained sensor readings, occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; storing historical event information corresponding to the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events; receiving at least one ancillary input from a detection system that is distinct from the sensors; processing, with at least one processor of the automated medication dosing and dispensing system, the stored historical event information and the at least one ancillary input to predict a future occurrence of a physical behavior event of interest; and adjusting medication dosage, medication dispensing parameters, or both medication dosage and medication dispensing parameters in response to the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the detected occurrences of gesture-based physical behavior events correspond to food intake events; the at least one ancillary input comprises information that is not directly related to food intake events; and the adjusting is performed in response to a predicted food intake event.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising the step of calculating a confidence level for the predicted future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest, wherein the adjusting is performed in response to the confidence level.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the processing step predicts the future occurrence of the physical behavior event of interest based on characteristics of a currently detected gesture-based physical behavior event.
</claims>
</document>
