<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01G21/22,G01G23/18,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06,G08B21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMART SHOPPING
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAGASHIMA, KEIICHIRO
HAYASHI, HIDETOSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69060541
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WEIGHT MEASURING DEVICE AND STOCK CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A weight measuring device that includes a housing having a flat panel shape, a weight sensor that measures a weight of a product placed on a top of the housing, a memory that stores address information of an address of a server on a network, and processing circuitry that wirelessly communicates with the server on the network, acquires measurement data from the weight sensor, and sends the acquired measurement data to the server using the address information stored in the memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A weight measuring device, comprising a housing having a flat panel shape; a weight sensor configured to measure a weight of a product placed on a top of the housing; a memory configured to store address information of an address of a server on a network; and processing circuitry configured to wirelessly communicate with the server on the network; acquire measurement dam from the weight sensor; and send the acquired measurement data lo the server using the address information stored in the memory.
2. The weight measuring device according to claim 1, further comprising: a battery compartment configured to house a battery for supplying power to the weight sensor, the memory, and the processing circuitry.
3. The weight measuring device according to claim 1, wherein the housing includes a mat, and the weight sensor is included in the mat.
4. The weight measuring device according to claim 1, wherein the hosing is configured to be combined with another housing of another weight measuring device in a planar direction.
7. The weight measuring device according to claim 1, wherein the memory is configured to store a set value of a measurement frequency, and the processing circuitry is configured to acquire the measurement data from the weight sensor and send the measurement data to the server at the measurement frequency stored in the memory.
8. The weight measuring device according to claim 2, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to send information about remaining power of the battery housed in the battery compartment to the server.
9. The weight measuring device according to claim 1, further comprising a measurement button; and a lamp, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: acquire the measurement data from the weight sensor; send the measurement data to the server in response to the measurement button being pressed; light the lamp in a first mode in response to determining that both of the acquisition of the measurement data from the weight sensor and the sending of the measurement data to the server are succeeded; and light the lamp in a second mode different from the first mode in response to determining that one or both of the acquisition of the measurement data and the sending of the measurement data to the server failed.
10. A stock control server, comprising: a memory configured to store a correspondence between a plurality of weight measuring devices and a product placed on each of the weight measuring devices; and processing circuitry configured to calculate a remaining quantity of each product based on weight data sent from the weight measuring device associated with the product; calculate a consumption rate of each product based on a history of the remaining quantity of the product; and determine a timing to generate an alert based on the calculated consumption rate of each product.
11. The stock control server according to claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: calculate a proper stock quantity of each product based on the consumption rate of the product; and compare the remaining quantity of the product with the proper stock quantity of the product; and generate a remaining quantity alert about the product in response to determining that the remaining quantity of the product is smaller than the proper stock quantity of the product.
12. The stock control server according to claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: compare the consumption rate of the product with an anomaly detection alert threshold for the product; and generate an anomaly detection alert about the product in response to determining that the consumption rate of the product is greater than the anomaly detection alert threshold.
13. The stock control server according to claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: compare the consumption rate of each product with an expiration alert threshold for the product; and generates an expiration alert about the product in response to determining that the consumption rate of the product being less to the expiration alert threshold.
14. The stock control server according to claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: receive an order request for each product sent from a terminal device of a stock keeper in charge of the products; and place an order for the product to a supplier of the product stored in the memory in response to receiving the order request for the product.
15. The stock control server according to claim 14, wherein in response to receiving the order request for the product, the processing circuitry determines whether a remaining quantity alert has been generated about a different product of the same type as the requested product, and in response to the remaining quantity alert having been generated about the different product of the same type as the requested product, the processing circuitry collectively places an order of the requested product, and an order of the different product about which the remaining quantity alert has been generated, to the supplier.
16. The stock control server according to claim 14, wherein in response to receiving the order request for the product, the processing circuitry determines whether a remaining quantity alert has been generated about a different product of which a supplier is identical to that of the requested product, and in response to the remaining quantity alert having been generated about the different product of which the supplier is identical to that of the requested product, the processing circuitry collectively places an order for the requested product, and an order for the different product about which the remaining quantity alert has been generated, to the supplier.
17. The stock control server according to claim 10, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control a display to display the remaining quantity of each product together with location information of each product.
18. The stock control server according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to: control the display to display a layout plan illustrating locations of the products; and control the display to display the remaining quantities of the products at the locations of the products on the layout plan based on the location information of each product.
19. The stock control server according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control the display to display the products classified by area based on the location information of each product, and the remaining quantities of the products sorted by area.
20. The stock control server according to claim 17, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to control the display to highlight the remaining quantity of the product about which the processing circuitry has generated the remaining quantity alert.
21. A stock control server, comprising: a memory configured to store a correspondence between a plurality of weight measuring devices and a product placed on each of the weight measuring devices; and processing circuitry configured to calculate a first remaining quantity of each product based on weight data sent from the weight measuring device associated with the product; store, in the memory, a second remaining quantity of each product together with a breakdown thereof by replenish days of the product; compare the first remaining quantity of each product with the second remaining quantity thereof stored in the memory; in response to determining that the first remaining quantity of the product is greater than the second remaining quantity thereof stored in the memory, add a difference between the first remaining quantity and the second remaining quantity to the second remaining quantity stored in the memory together with a date of a replenishment day; in response to determining that the first remaining quantity of the product is less than the second remaining quantity thereof stored in the memory, reduce the second remaining quantity of the product on an older date in the breakdown stored in the memory by a difference between the second remaining quantity and the first remaining quantity; calculate maximum stock days of each product based on the oldest date in the breakdown of the second remaining quantity of the product stored in the memory; calculate an upper limit value of proper stock days of each product based on a history of the maximum stock days of the product; compare the maximum stock days of each product with the upper limit value of the proper stock days of the product; and generate a dead stock alert about the product to response to determining that the maximum stock days of the product has exceeded the upper limit value of the proper stock days of the product.
22. The stock control server according to claim 21, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to display, on a display, the maximum stock days of each product together with its location information.
23. The stock control server according to claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to display, on the display, a layout plan illustrating locations of the products, and the remaining quantities of the products at the locations of the products on the layout plan lased on the location information of each product.
24. The stock control server according to claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to display, on the display, the products classified by area based on the location information of each product, and the maximum stock days of the products sorted by area.
25. The stock control server according to claim 22, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to highlight the maximum stock days of the product about which the processing circuitry has generated the dead stock alert.
26. The stock control server according to claim 21, wherein the second remaining quantity is stored in the memory before the first remaining quantity is calculated.
27. The stock control server according to claim 21, wherein the second remaining quantity is stored in the memory on a day before a day the first remaining quantity is calculated.
</claims>
</document>
