<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G06Q10/02,G06Q50/30,G07C5/00,G08G1/00,G08G1/0968
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHELLAPILLA, KUMAR HEMACHANDRA
DANNA, EMILIE JEANNE ANNE
LU, DAVID TSE-ZHOU
QURESHI, SAMEER
WEILL, ALEXIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335163
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AUTONOMOUS VEHICLE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive transportation information associated with a transportation request, the transportation information comprising a pick up location and a drop off location. A first route associated with the transportation request and a non-autonomous vehicle can be determined. A second route associated with the transportation request and an autonomous vehicle can be determined based on an operating design domain (ODD) associated with one or more autonomous vehicles in a fleet of vehicles. At least one performance metric associated with the second route can be determined. The second route can be selected based at least in part on the at least one performance metric and a comparison of the first route and the second route. An autonomous vehicle from the fleet of vehicles can be assigned to the transportation request based on selection of the second route.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, transportation information associated with a transportation request, the transportation information comprising a pick up location and a drop off location; determining, by the computing system, a first route associated with the transportation request and a non-autonomous vehicle; determining, by the computing system, a second route associated with the transportation request and an autonomous vehicle based on an operating design domain (ODD) associated with one or more autonomous vehicles in a fleet of vehicles; determining, by the computing system, at least one performance metric associated with the second route; selecting, by the computing system, the second route based at least in part on the at least one performance metric and a comparison of the first route and the second route; and assigning, by the computing system, an autonomous vehicle from the fleet of vehicles to the transportation request based on selection of the second route.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the ODD is defined based on at least one of environmental factors, map elements, or scenarios that the one or more autonomous vehicles are designed to handle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performance metric is a safety metric determined based on disengagement information.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the selecting the second route comprises determining, for each road segment of a plurality of road segments associated with the second route, a performance metric based on disengagement information associated with the road segment.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the disengagement information associated with each road segment identifies a set of disengagements associated with the road segment.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the determining the performance metric based on disengagement information associated with the road segment comprises categorizing each disengagement of the set of disengagements into a category of a plurality of categories.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein each category of the plurality of categories is associated with a particular predicted outcome if disengagement had not occurred.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the determining, for each road segment of a plurality of road segments, a performance metric based on disengagement information associated with the road segment comprises determining, for each road segment of the plurality of road segments, a performance metric based on unplanned disengagement information associated with the road segment.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the selecting the second route comprises a determination as to whether a route comprising one or more road segments of the plurality of road segments exists from the pick up location to the drop off location such that each road segment in the route satisfies a minimum performance metric threshold.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the selecting the second route comprises: evaluating at least one of a potential time delay, a distance between a current location and the pickup location, a distance from the drop off location to a destination, or comfort level.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: receiving transportation information associated with a transportation request, the transportation information comprising a pick up location and a drop off location; determining a first route associated with the transportation request and a non-autonomous vehicle; determining a second route associated with the transportation request and an autonomous vehicle based on an operating design domain (ODD) associated with one or more autonomous vehicles in a fleet of vehicles; determining at least one performance metric associated with the second route; selecting the second route based at least in part on the at least one performance metric and a comparison of the first route and the second route; and assigning an autonomous vehicle from the fleet of vehicles to the transportation request based on selection of the second route.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the ODD is defined based on at least one of environmental factors, map elements, or scenarios that the one or more autonomous vehicles are designed to handle.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the performance metric is a safety metric determined based on disengagement information.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the selecting the second route comprises determining, for each road segment of a plurality of road segments associated with the second route, a performance metric based on disengagement information associated with the road segment.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the disengagement information associated with each road segment identifies a set of disengagements associated with the road segment.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: receiving transportation information associated with a transportation request, the transportation information comprising a pick up location and a drop off location; determining a first route associated with the transportation request and a non-autonomous vehicle; determining a second route associated with the transportation request and an autonomous vehicle based on an operating design domain (ODD) associated with one or more autonomous vehicles in a fleet of vehicles; determining at least one performance metric associated with the second route; selecting the second route based at least in part on the at least one performance metric and a comparison of the first route and the second route; and assigning an autonomous vehicle from the fleet of vehicles to the transportation request based on selection of the second route.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the ODD is defined based on at least one of environmental factors, map elements, or scenarios that the one or more autonomous vehicles are designed to handle.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the performance metric is a safety metric determined based on disengagement information.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the selecting the second route comprises determining, for each road segment of a plurality of road segments associated with the second route, a performance metric based on disengagement information associated with the road segment.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the disengagement information associated with each road segment identifies a set of disengagements associated with the road segment.
</claims>
</document>
