<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MURDOCK, MALCOLM E.
DI ZANNI, DARIO
POSWAL, MOHAMMAD
HELLAM, TAYLOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63037774
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO PROVIDE NARRATIVE EXPERIENCES FOR USERS OF A VIRTUAL SPACE
</title>

<abstract>
The systems and methods presented herein are related to providing narrative experiences for users of a virtual space. A machine learning based technique may be implemented for generating paths through the virtual space that present the narrative experiences. A path may be based on tagged points of interest, as illustrated in stored narrative information associated with the virtual space. A machine-learning training loop may be applied wherein the system may be trained to recognize and/or understand what sorts of virtual content within the virtual space may be considered to be of narrative interest to audience members.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system configured to provide narrative experiences for users of a virtual space, the system comprising: electronic storage configured to store narrative information associated with a virtual space, the virtual space including virtual space content, the virtual space content comprising one or more static environments, virtual objects present within the one or more static environments, one or more events that take place within the one or more static environments, and simulated physical phenomena, the narrative information specifying values of narrative attributes of the virtual space content, the narrative attributes including one or more of a character role attribute, a plot point attribute, an interaction attribute, or an aesthetics attribute; one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: determine individual sets of narrative content within the virtual space to form narrative experiences to be experienced by one or more users in the virtual space; determine, for the individual narrative experiences, individual paths within the virtual space through which the virtual space is viewed during the individual narrative experiences, wherein the individual paths are determined such that the narrative content in the individual sets of narrative content of the individual narrative experiences are encountered without user input during the individual narrative experiences; and effectuate presentation of the individual narrative experiences to users of the virtual space.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least some of the narrative content within the virtual space content is emergent when the individual paths are determined.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by the machine-readable instructions to: determine, for the individual paths, individual ordered sequences for encountering the narrative content included in the individual sets of narrative content.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the individual paths correspond to either fly-by camera views or non-user entity views.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more physical processors are further configured by machine-readable instructions to: obtain user interaction information for individual users of the virtual space, the user interaction information for an individual user including indications of the virtual space content that the individual user has interacted with; and wherein the narrative content in the individual sets of narrative content includes the virtual space content that the individual user has interacted with.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the individual narrative experiences are limited by world physics of the virtual space.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein an individual event includes one or more interactions of one or more virtual objects with one or more other virtual objects within the one or more static environments.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the individual paths is based on machine-learning.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual space is a persistent procedurally generated virtual space.
10. A method to provide narrative experiences for users of a virtual space, the method comprising: storing narrative information associated with a virtual space, the virtual space including virtual space content, the virtual space content comprising one or more static environments, virtual objects present within the one or more static environments, one or more events that take place within the one or more static environments, and simulated physical phenomena, the narrative information specifying values of narrative attributes of the virtual space content, the narrative attributes including one or more of a character role attribute, a plot point attribute, an interaction attribute, or an aesthetics attribute; determining individual sets of narrative content within the virtual space to form narrative experiences to be experienced by one or more users in the virtual space; determining, for the individual narrative experiences, individual paths within the virtual space through which the virtual space is viewed during the individual narrative experiences, including determining the individual paths such that the narrative content in the individual sets of narrative content of the individual narrative experiences are encountered without user input during the individual narrative experiences; and effectuating presentation of the individual narrative experiences to users of the virtual space.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least some of the narrative content within the virtual space content is emergent when the individual paths are determined.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining, for the individual paths, individual ordered sequences for encountering the narrative content included in the individual sets of narrative content.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the individual paths correspond to either fly-by camera views or non-user entity views.
14. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining user interaction information for individual users of the virtual space, the user interaction information for an individual user including indications of the virtual space content that the individual user has interacted with; and wherein the narrative content in the individual sets of narrative content includes the virtual space content that the individual user has interacted with.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the individual narrative experiences are limited by world physics of the virtual space.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein an individual event includes one or more interactions of one or more virtual objects with one or more other virtual objects within the one or more static environments.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the individual paths is based on machine-learning.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the virtual space is a persistent procedurally generated virtual space.
</claims>
</document>
