<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/35,G07C13/00,G07C9/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AERENDIR MOBILE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHARKEY, HUGH
ZIZI, MARTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56564719
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
KEYLESS ACCESS CONTROL WITH NEURO AND NEURO-MECHANICAL FINGERPRINTS
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one embodiment, an access control system is disclosed. The access control system comprises an access control panel including a touchable surface, a multi-dimensional touch sensor under the touchable surface, and a processor coupled to the multi-dimensional touch sensor. The multi-dimensional touch sensor captures a multi-dimensional motion signal including a micro-motion signal component representing neuro-mechanical micro-motions of a user touching the multi-dimensional touch sensor. The processor performs signal processing of the multi-dimensional motion signal to obtain the micro-motion signal component; and extracts unique values of predetermined features from the micro-motion signal component to form a neuro-fingerprint (NFP) that uniquely identifies the user. The NFP can be used as a gatekeeper to control entry into homes, offices, buildings, or other real properly typically protected by access control.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. 1-15. (canceled)
16. A method for online services, the method comprising displaying a webpage of an online service; receiving a user name associated with a user; receiving a token from the user, the received token associated with a neuro-mechanical fingerprint that uniquely identifies the user; and in response to the received token, allowing the user to access the online service.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the online service is a health care service to authenticate the user prior to access of electronic medical records associated with the user; and the online service allows the authenticated user to send and receive electronic medical records, portions of electronic medical records, or medical data associated with the authenticated user.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the electronic medical records are universal health records having a standardized format.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the online service is a government online service; and the token associated with the neuro-mechanical fingerprint is date and time stamped to provide a current positive identification of the user.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the online service is an online voting service.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein the online service is an online testing service.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising: looking up user calibration parameters from a storage device in response to the name of the user; generating a number in response to the token and the user calibration parameters; determining a match percentage in response to the generated number; in response to the match percentage, determining if the user is an authorized user by comparing the match percentage to an authorized user percentage; and in response to the match percentage being greater than or equal to the authorized user percentage, allowing access of the online services to the user.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the generated number is further generated in response to a date and time stamp within an expected range of date and time stamps.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the token is encrypted with an encryption code and the generating of the number further comprises prior to generating the number, decrypting the token in response to the encryption code.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the generated number is further generated in response to a date and time stamp within an expected range of date and time stamps.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the decryption of the token is further in response to a date and time stamp of the token within an expected range of date and time stamps.
27. The method of claim 22, further comprising: prior to receiving the token, storing the user calibration parameters in the storage device.
28. 28-35. (canceled)
36. An access system comprising: a base station including a housing, a three dimensional motion sensor mounted in the housing, the three dimensional motion sensor to sense micro-motions of a user and generate a micro-motions signal, and a neuro-mechanical fingerprint (NFP) authentication controller mounted in the housing and coupled to the three dimensional motion sensor, the NFP authentication controller to receive the micro-motions signal, generate an NFP, and evaluate the NFP against a stored NFP user calibration to determine a match percentage and authorize access in response to the match percentage; and an electronic door lock electrically coupled to the NFP authentication controller, wherein the wireless base station controls access to a building by controlling the electronic door lock in response to the authorized NFP and the match percentage.
37. The access system of claim 36, wherein the base station controls the electronic door lock to unlock a door and grant access to the building in response to the authorized NFP and the match percentage.
38. The access system of claim 36, further comprising: one or more controllable devices within the building electrically coupled to the NFP authentication controller, wherein the wireless base station further controls operation of the one or more controllable devices in response to the authorized NFP and the match percentage.
39. The access system of claim 38, wherein the one or more controllable devices includes one or more of thermostats for heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system; an entertainment system; a lighting system; an irrigation system, a camera surveillance system, and a security system with its associated motion sensors and security or alarm devices.
40. The access system of claim 36, wherein the base station further includes a radio receiver coupled to the NFP authentication controller, the radio receiver including an antenna to locally receive an authorization signal.
41. The access system of claim 40, wherein the base station further includes a backup power supply mounted in the housing, the power backup supply selectively coupled to the sensor, the NFP authentication controller, and the radio receiver to wirelessly receive the authorization signal during a alternating current (AC) power outage.
42. The access system of claim 40, further comprising: a wireless key fob including a hand-held housing, a sensor mounted in the housing, the sensor to sense micro-motions of the user and generate a micro-motions signal, a neuro-mechanical fingerprint (NFP) authentication controller mounted in the hand-held housing and coupled to the sensor, the NFP authentication controller to receive the micro-motions signal, generate an NFP, and evaluate the NFP against a stored NFP user calibration to determine a match percentage and authorize access in response to the match percentage, a radio transmitter coupled to the NFP authentication controller to receive an access control signal, the radio transmitter including an antenna to locally transmit an authorization signal in response to the access control signal, and a power supply mounted in the hand-held housing, the power supply selectively coupled to the sensor, the NFP authentication controller, and the radio transmitter to wirelessly transmit the authorization signal from the radio transmitter to the radio receiver of the base station.
43. 43-46. (canceled)
47. A method of detecting insobriety of a user, the method comprising: with a multi-dimensional sensor and a neuro-mechanical fingerprint (NFP) controller, generating a first authorized NFP of a user without influence of drugs or alcohol; storing the first authorized NFP into a storage device; with the multi-dimensional sensor and the NFP controller, generating a second authorized NFP of the user; recalling the first NFP from the storage device; and with the NFP controller, comparing the first NFP and the second NFP of the user for a difference greater than a predetermined percentage to determine the user is under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
48. The method of claim 47, further comprising: disabling operation of a vehicle in response to the difference of the first NFP and the second NFP being greater than the predetermined percentage.
49. The method of claim 48, wherein the multi-dimensional sensor is in a steering wheel of the vehicle.
50. The method of claim 48, wherein the multi-dimensional sensor is in a wireless key fob associated with the vehicle.
51. The method of claim 48, wherein the multi-dimensional sensor is in a push button to start up the vehicle.
52. The method of claim 48, wherein a start up operation of the vehicle is disabled.
53. The method of claim 48, wherein a shift of the transmission into drive is disabled.
54. The method of claim 48, wherein a disengagement of an emergency brake is disabled.
55. The method of claim 48, wherein the multi-dimensional sensor is at least a two dimensional sensor.
56. A method of voting, the method comprising receiving a name and an address associated with a user; looking up user calibration parameters from a database in response the name and the address of the user; sensing motion of a body part of the user in multiple dimensions to generate a multi-dimensional motion signal; in response to the multi-dimensional motion signal, generating a neuro-mechanical fingerprint (NFP) that is unique to the user; evaluating the NFP of the user in response to the user calibration parameters to determine a maximum match percentage; in response to the match percentage, determining if the user is an authorized voter by comparing the maximum match percentage to an authorized voter percentage; and in response to the maximum match percentage being greater than or equal to the authorized voter percentage, allowing the user to vote.
57. The method of claim 56, further comprising: prior to the receiving of the name and the address associated with the user, generating the user calibration parameters; associating the user name and street address of an authorized voter with the user calibration parameters; and storing into a database, the user calibration parameters associated with the user name and street address, without storing the NFP into the database.
58. The method of claim 56, wherein the motion of the body part is sensed with a multi-dimensional sensor.
59. The method of claim 58, wherein the multi-dimensional sensor is at least a two dimensional motion sensor and the multi-dimensional motion signal is at least a two dimensional motion signal.
</claims>
</document>
