<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENTIT SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAES, STEPHANE HERMAN
CHHINA, KARAN SINGH
DUBUC, GUILLAUME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71071629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NATURAL LANGUAGE TRANSLATION-BASED ORCHESTRATION WORKFLOW GENERATION
</title>

<abstract>
A technique includes receiving, by a computer, data representing a task to be automated in association with a computing environment. The technique includes applying, by the computer, natural language processing to the data to generate a sequence of statements describing operations to be executed to perform the task. The sequence of statements is associated with a predetermined orchestration workflow language.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computer, data representing a task to be automated in association with a computing environment; and applying, by the computer, natural language processing to the data to generate a sequence of statements describing operations to be executed to perform the task, wherein the sequence of statements is associated with a predetermined orchestration workflow language.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the natural language processing to the data comprises applying natural language translation to convert an intent or intent description comprising intents expressed by the data to a workflow or applying machine generation to provide a natural language flow expressing the intent.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the predetermined cloud orchestration workflow language comprises a second cloud orchestration workflow language; and applying natural language processing to the data to generate the sequence of statements comprises applying natural language processing to convert another sequence of statements associated with a first cloud orchestration workflow language to the sequence of statements associated with the second cloud orchestration workflow language.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein applying natural language translation comprises optimizing the sequence of statements associated with the first cloud orchestration workflow language based on a predetermined optimization criteria.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first cloud orchestration workflow language and the second cloud orchestration workflow language are associated with different versions of the same workflow language.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the data represents a script; and applying natural language processing to the data comprises applying machine translation to convert the script to the sequence of statements.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the data represents captured text; and applying natural language processing to the data comprises applying natural language translation to convert the captured speech to the sequence of statements.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein applying natural language processing comprises performing neural network-based sequence-to-sequence transformation of a sequence of statements represented by the data to the sequence of statements associated with the predetermined cloud orchestration workflow language.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by a computer, additional data describing a workflow to automate another task in association with the computing environment; and applying, by the computer, natural language processing to the additional data to generate data representing a description of an intent associated with the workflow.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a plurality of sequences, including the generated sequence of statements, as candidate workflows for performing the task.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: using the sequence of statements to identify a cluster of workflows for performing the task; and identifying the candidate workflows based on an intent-associated distance among the workflows of the cluster.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein: the sequence of statements corresponds to an information technology (IT) automation workflow, and the task corresponds to configuring or installing a resources in the computing environment; the sequence of statements corresponds to a business process automation workflow, and the task corresponds to setting up a business process; or the sequence of statements corresponds to a cloud automation workflow, and the task corresponds to configuring or deploying a cloud computing system resource.
13. A non-transitory storage medium to store instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: decompose a request to automate a set of at least one computing environment-related task, wherein the decomposing comprises determining a set of source words associated with the request and determining a set of target operations to automate the at least one computing environment-related task, wherein the set of target operations comprise operations corresponding to sequence of statements associated with a predetermined cloud automation workflow language; and use the set of source words and the set of target operations to train a natural language generation model to translate other requests to create automation workflows described using the predetermined automation workflow language.
14. The storage medium of claim 13, wherein the storage medium stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to form an embedding layer to convert the set of source words into inputs for a plurality of hidden layers of the machine learning model.
15. The storage medium of claim 12, wherein the storage medium stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to form an embedding layer to convert the set of target operations into inputs for a plurality of hidden layers of the machine learning model
16. The storage medium of claim 15, wherein the inputs comprise inputs to decoding portions of the plurality of hidden layers.
17. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory to store instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive data representing a first sequence associated with a first language and associated with at least one operation to be automated involving at least one computing system; process the data to identify a plurality of source words associated with the first sequence; and apply a recurrent neural network to the plurality of source words to determine a second sequence associated with automation workflow language other than the first language.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the memory stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to apply the natural language processing by combining a plurality of existing orchestration workflows.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein: the second sequence describes a plurality of automation options; and the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to provide an editor to allow editing of the second sequence.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein: the first sequence represents an intent by a user to perform the at least one operation involving the at least one computing system; and the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to apply the recurrent neural network to extract the intent from the data.
</claims>
</document>
