<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/048
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHILDREN'S MEDICAL CENTER CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LODDENKEMPER, TOBIAS
Wang, Xiaofan
Tanritanir, Ahmet
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66539867
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR TREATMENT OF EPILEPTIC DISORDERS USING ELECTROPHYSIOLOGICAL BIOMARKERS AND RELATED SYSTEMS AND METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for determining treatment of a subject with IS based on EEG-derived biomarkers are provided. According to some aspects, a method of adapting treatment of a subject having infantile spasms (IS) is provided, the method comprising obtaining electroencephalogram (EEG) data of the subject, determining a measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or a measure of spike frequency of the EEG data, and determining subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject based at least in part on the determined measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or measure of spike frequency of the EEG data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of adapting treatment of a subject having infantile spasms (IS), the method comprising: obtaining electroencephalogram (EEG) data of the subject; determining a measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or a measure of spike frequency of the EEG data; and determining subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject based at least in part on the determined measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or measure of spike frequency of the EEG data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the infantile spasms of the subject have previously been treated with one or more medications, and wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises determining a new dose of at least one of the one or more medications.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the infantile spasms of the subject have previously been treated with a first medication, and wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises selecting a second medication for subsequent treatment of the subject.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject further comprises determining to cease subsequent treatment of the subject with the first medication.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing: the determined measure of delta power of the EEG data with a previously determined measure of delta power of the subject; and/or the determined measure of spike frequency of the EEG data with a previously determined measure of spike frequency of the subject, and wherein the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject is determined based at least in part on a result of said comparison.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises comparing the result of said comparison with a threshold value.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the infantile spasms of the subject have previously been treated, and wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises determining a likelihood of relapse of the subject.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein, when the determined likelihood of relapse of the subject is above a first value, selecting a new treatment for the infantile spasms of the subject, and when the determined likelihood of relapse of the subject is below a second value, maintaining a current treatment for the infantile spasms of the subject.
9. The method of claim 1, comprising determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data includes calculating a spectral power of the EEG data in a first frequency band.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first frequency band is a range of frequencies between an upper frequency and a lower frequency, wherein the upper frequency is no greater than 5 Hz, and wherein the lower frequency is greater than 0 Hz.
11. The method of claim 1, comprising determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data includes performing a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) of the EEG data.
12. The method of claim 1, comprising determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data includes identifying a plurality of amplitude spikes in the EEG data, the amplitude spikes being a deviation from a baseline amplitude above an amplitude threshold.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the amplitude threshold is at least three times the baseline amplitude.
14. The method of claim 1, comprising determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data includes calculating a plurality of wavelet coefficients of the EEG data.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises ACTH therapy.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the ACTH therapy comprises application of Acthar® gel.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject is less than one year of age.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtained EEG data of the subject comprises non-rapid-eye movement sleep (NREMS) EEG data.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising treating the infantile spasms of the subject according to the determined subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, perform a method of adapting treatment of a subject having infantile spasms (IS), the method comprising: accessing electroencephalogram (EEG) data of the subject; determining, using the at least processor, a measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or a measure of spike frequency of the EEG data; and determining, using the at least processor, subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject based at least in part on the determined measure of delta power of the EEG data and/or measure of spike frequency of the EEG data.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject further comprises determining to cease subsequent treatment of the subject with a first medication.
22. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the method further comprises: comparing: the determined measure of delta power of the EEG data with a previously determined measure of delta power of the subject; and/or the determined measure of spike frequency of the EEG data with a previously determined measure of spike frequency of the subject, and wherein the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject is determined based at least in part on a result of said comparison.
23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 22, wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises comparing the result of said comparison with a threshold value.
24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein determining the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises determining a likelihood of relapse of the subject.
25. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 24, wherein, when the determined likelihood of relapse of the subject is above a first value, selecting a new treatment for the infantile spasms of the subject, and when the determined likelihood of relapse of the subject is below a second value, maintaining a current treatment for the infantile spasms of the subject.
26. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the method comprises determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data includes calculating a spectral power of the EEG data in a first frequency band.
27. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein the first frequency band is a range of frequencies between an upper frequency and a lower frequency, wherein the upper frequency is no greater than 5 Hz, and wherein the lower frequency is greater than 0 Hz.
28. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the method comprises determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of delta power of the EEG data includes performing a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) of the EEG data.
29. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the method comprises determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data includes identifying a plurality of amplitude spikes in the EEG data, the amplitude spikes being a deviation from a baseline amplitude above an amplitude threshold.
30. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 29, wherein the amplitude threshold is at least three times the baseline amplitude.
31. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the method comprises determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data, and wherein determining the measure of spike frequency of the EEG data includes calculating a plurality of wavelet coefficients of the EEG data.
32. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the subsequent treatment of the infantile spasms of the subject comprises ACTH therapy.
</claims>
</document>
