<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J11/00,B25J9/16,B29C45/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Noble Plastics, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROGERS, DONALD SCOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EDGE DEVICE INTERFACE SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING AND MODIFYING CONTROL AND RESPONSE SIGNALS TRANSMITTED TO AND FROM INJECTION-MOLDING MACHINES AND ROBOTS
</title>

<abstract>
An edge device interface system and method for monitoring, recording, and calculating control and response signals generated by and between an injection molding system including an injection-molding machine and a robotic handling device. The edge device interface system of the invention includes an edge device interposed between the connector of the injection-molding machine and the connector of a robotic handling device using standardized connectors. The edge device interface system may be interposed between the connector of the injection-mailing machine and the connector of a robotic handling device to emulate the function of either device as desired. The edge device interface system and method utilizes data observed both from standardized connectors and auxiliary inputs to provide insight into molding process steps and equipment, including what components of the injection molding system that may be contributing to any molding process instability or inefficiency, and for generating signals for real-time adjustment of the molding process.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. An edge device interface system apparatus for receiving, processing, analyzing, and transmitting signals generated before, during, and after operation of injection-molding machines, comprising: a) at least one injection-molding machine; b) a control mechanism generating and receiving injection-molding, machine data signals to and from said injection-molding machine; c) an edge device interfacing said injection molding machine whereby said data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine may be received and captured; and d) are analysis system whereby said received and captured injection-molding machine data signals are delivered from said edge device and stored processed, and analyzed,
2. The edge device interface system apparatus as recited in claim 1, further comprising: a) at least one robotic handling device interfacing with said edge device whereby data signals generated to and from said robotic handling device may be received and captured by said edge device; and b) wherein said received and captured robotic handling device data signals are delivered from said edge device to said analysis system and stored, processed, and analyzed.
3. The edge device interface system apparatus as recited in claim 2, wherein said received and captured injection-molding machine data signals and said received and captured robotic handling device data signals are transmitted to and from said analysis system wirelessly.
4. The edge device interface system apparatus as recited in claim 3, wherein said analysis system includes a cloud-based analysis system.
5. The apparatus as recited hi claim 4, wherein said edge device interfaces with said injection-molding machine and with said robotic handling device by Euromap standard compliant connectors.
6. The edge device interface system apparatus as recited in claim 5, further comprising sensors with said injection-molding machine whereby molding process information data signals are monitored and captured.
7. The edge device interface system apparatus as recited in claim 4 further comprising a plurality of injection-molding machines and a plurality of robotic handling devices each having connectors interfaced by a said edge device.
8. A method for monitoring receiving, processing, analyzing, transmitting and modifying control and response signals transmitted to and from an injection-molding machine and a robotic handing device comprising the steps of: a) providing at least one injection-molding machine; b) providing at least one robotic handling device; c) interfacing said at least one injection-molding machine and said at least one robotic handling device whereby data signals are exchanged between said at least one injection-molding machine and said at least one robotic handling device; d) providing an edge device and interfacing said edge device with said injection molding machine and said robotic handling device whereby said exchanged data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device may be captured; e) capturing said exchanged data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device with said edge device; f) transmitting said captured exchanged data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device from said edge device to an analysis system; and g) storing, processing, and analyzing said captured exchanged data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device with said analysis system
9. The method as recited in claim 9, wherein said analysis system receives and. transmits data signals wirelessly.
10. The method as recited in claim 9, further comprising the additional step of interfacing said edge device with said injection-molding machine and with said robotic handling device with Euromap standard compliant connectors.
11. The method as recited in claim 8, further comprising the additional steps of: a) providing at least one control mechanism for said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device; b) entering input data to said at least one control mechanism and generating initial. control signals for said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device; c) transmitting said generated initial control signals for said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device from said at least one control mechanism to said injection-molding machine and to said robotic handling device whereby initial molding process parameters are established; and d) transmitting said generated initial control signals for said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device to said analysis system.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, further comprising the additional steps of: a) analyzing said captured exchanged data signals and said generated initial control signals with. said analysis system; b) modifying said generated initial control signals in response to said analysis of said captured exchanged data signals and said generated initial control signals; c) transmitting said modified initial control signals to said at least one control mechanism; and d) selectively transmitting said modified initial control signals to said injection-molding machine and to said robotic handling device as desired thereby modifying said initial molding process parameters.
13. The method as recited in claim 12, wherein said analysis system is a cloud-based analysis system,
14. 14.The method as recited in claim 13, further comprising the additional step of interfacing said edge device with said injection-molding machine and with said robotic handling device with Euromap standard compliant connectors.
15. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the additional steps of: a) providing sensors with said injection-molding machine to monitor and capture molding process information data signals; b capturing said molding process information data signals from said sensors to said at least one control mechanism; c) transmitting said captured molding process information data signals to said analysis system; d) storing, processing, and analyzing said captured molding process information data signals; and e) whereby modifying said generated initial control signals includes modifying said generated initial control signals in response to said analysis of said captured molding process information data signals.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein said captured molding process information data signals include feedstock temperature and mold pressure.
17. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising the additional step of generating simulated. robot and injection-molding machine control and response signals to and from said edge device.
18. In the injection-molding machine and robotic handling device combination having interfacing robotic handing device and injection-molding machine connectors and a control mechanism; an edge device interface system apparatus for receiving, processing, analyzing, and transmitting signals generated from operation of said infection-molding machine and robotic handling device combination, an edge device interface system comprising: a) an edge device interfacing with said interfacing robotic handing device and injection-molding machine connectors whereby said data signals generated to and from said injection-molding machine and said robotic handling device may be received and captured; and b) an analysis system in combination with said edge device whereby said data signals received and captured by said edge device are delivered, stored, processed, and analyzed.
19. In the injection-molding machine and robotic handling device combination having interfacing robotic handing device and injection-molding machine connectors and a control mechanism; an edge device interface system apparatus for receiving, processing, analyzing, and transmitting signals generated from operation of said injection-molding machine and robotic device combination, the edge device interface system as recited in claim 18 wherein said data signals received and captured by said edge device are delivered to said analysis system wirelessly.
20. In infection-molding machine and robotic handling device combination having interfacing robotic handing device and injection-molding machine connectors and a control mechanism; an edge device interface system apparatus for receiving, processing, analyzing, and transmitting signals generated from operation of said injection-molding machine and robotic handling device combination, the edge device interface system as recited in claim 19 wherein said interfacing robotic handing device and injection-molding machine connectors and said interfacing edge device include interfacing Euromap standard compliant connectors.
</claims>
</document>
