<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LUMINAR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
TROFYMOV, DMYTRO
MAHESHWARI, PRANAV
RAMEZANI, VAHID R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71121997
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING ENVIRONMENTAL PARAMETERS BASED ON SENSOR DATA USING MACHINE LEARNING
</title>

<abstract>
To generate a machine learning model for controlling autonomous vehicles, training sensor data is obtained from sensors associated with one or more vehicles, the sensor data indicative of physical conditions of an environment in which the one or more vehicles operate, and a machine learning (ML) model is trained using the training sensor data. The ML model generates parameters of the environment in response to input sensor data. A controller in an autonomous vehicle receives sensor data from one or more sensors operating in the autonomous vehicle, applies the received sensor data to the ML model to obtain parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, provides the generated parameters to a motion planner component to generate decisions for controlling the autonomous vehicle, and causes the autonomous vehicle to maneuver in accordance with the generated decisions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a machine learning model for controlling autonomous vehicles, the method comprising: obtaining, by processing hardware, training sensor data from a plurality of sensors associated with one or more vehicles, the sensor data indicative of physical conditions of an environment in which the one or more vehicles operate; and training, by the processing hardware, a machine learning (ML) model using the training sensor data, the ML model generating parameters of the environment in response to input sensor data; wherein a controller in an autonomous vehicle (i) receives sensor data from one or more sensors operating in the autonomous vehicle, (ii) applies the received sensor data to the ML model to obtain parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, (iii) provides the generated parameters to a motion planner component to generate decisions for controlling the autonomous vehicle, and (iv) causes the autonomous vehicle to maneuver in accordance with the generated decisions.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes: receiving, from a database, map data for a geographic region in which the one or more vehicles operate, comparing, by the processing hardware, mapping parameters included in the parameters generated by the ML model to the map data received from the database to generate an error signal, and applying, by the processing hardware, the error signal to the ML model as an additional input.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes: receiving, from a database, indications of locations of objects of a certain type in a geographic region in which the one or more vehicles operate, applying, by the processing hardware, the indications to the ML model as a cost function.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the objects of the certain type include traffic lights.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is first sensor data, the method further comprising: obtaining, by the processing hardware, second training sensor data from a plurality of virtual sensors, the second sensor data indicative of simulated physical conditions of a virtual environment in which the one or more vehicles operate.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the sensor data includes obtaining, from each of the one or more vehicles, lidar data generated by one or more respective lidar systems.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the sensor data includes obtaining, from each of the one or more vehicles, camera data generated by one or more respective cameras operating in a visible range and/or an infrared range.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the sensor data includes obtaining, from each of the one or more vehicles, radar data generated by one or more respective radar systems.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model using weather data indicative of current weather conditions in the environment in which the one or more vehicles operate.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model to generate respective confidence scores for the parameters of the environment.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model to generate parameters indicative of a curvature of a road on which the autonomous vehicle travels.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model to generate parameters indicative of lane markings on a road on which the autonomous vehicle travels.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model to generate parameters indicative of lane markings on a road on which the autonomous vehicle travels.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training the ML model to determine a distance from the autonomous vehicle to an obstacle on a road on which the autonomous vehicle travels.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein training the ML model includes training at least one of a deep neural network or a convolutional neural network.
16. A computing system comprising: processing hardware; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory storing thereon instructions which, when executed by the processing hardware, cause the computing system to: obtain training sensor data from a plurality of sensors associated with one or more vehicles, the sensor data indicative of physical conditions of an environment in which the one or more vehicles operate, and train a machine learning (ML) model using the training sensor data, the ML model generating parameters of the environment in response to input sensor data; wherein a controller in an autonomous vehicle (i) receives sensor data from one or more sensors operating in the autonomous vehicle, (ii) applies the received sensor data to the ML model to obtain parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, (iii) provides the generated parameters to a motion planner component to generate decisions for controlling the autonomous vehicle, and (iv) causes the autonomous vehicle to maneuver in accordance with the generated decisions.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein to train the ML model, the instructions cause the computing system to: receive, from a database, map data for a geographic region in which the one or more vehicles operate, compare mapping parameters included in the parameters generated by the ML model to the map data received from the database to generate an error signal, and apply the error signal to the ML model as an additional input.
18. The computing system of claim 16, wherein to train the ML model, the instructions cause the computing system to: receive, from a database, indications of locations of objects of a certain type in a geographic region in which the one or more vehicles operate, apply the indications to the ML model as a cost function.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the objects of the certain type include traffic lights.
20. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the sensor data is first sensor data, and wherein the instructions further cause the computing system to: obtain second training sensor data from a plurality of virtual sensors, the second sensor data indicative of simulated physical conditions of a virtual environment in which the one or more vehicles operate.
21. A controller operating in an autonomous vehicle, the controller comprising: one or more processing units; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory storing thereon: a machine-learning (ML) model configured to generate parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, in response to input sensor data, first instructions that implement a perception module configured to (i) receive sensor data from one or more sensors operating in the autonomous vehicle, in real time, and (ii) apply the sensor data to the ML model to generate parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, and second instructions that implement a motion planner configured to (i) receive the generated parameters from the perception module, and (ii) generate decisions for controlling the autonomous vehicle based on the generated parameters; wherein the controller causes the autonomous vehicle to maneuver in accordance with the generated decisions.
22. An autonomous vehicle comprising: vehicle maneuvering components to effectuate at least steering, acceleration, and braking of the autonomous vehicle; one or more sensors configured to generate signals indicative of physical conditions of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates; and a controller configured to (i) receive the signals from the one or more sensors, (ii) apply the received signals to a machine learning (ML) model to generate, in real time, parameters of an environment in which the autonomous vehicle operates, (iii) apply the generated parameters of the environment to a motion planner to generate decisions for controlling the autonomous vehicle, and (iv) control the vehicle maneuvering components in accordance with the generated decisions.
</claims>
</document>
