<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61B5/1455,A61B5/1491
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHULTZ, PETER
KOW, HSIAO-YU, S.
RUSSELL, RAYMOND M.
GAUTHAM, RAGHAVENDHAR
ZHOU, LI
Chen, Carol
Patel, Anuj M.
To, Lynette
Malekmadani, Roshanne
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73046917
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MINIATURIZED NONINVASIVE GLUCOSE SENSOR AND CONTINUOUS GLUCOSE MONITORING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described herein for utilizing a photoacoustic sensor for estimating analyte concentration levels. Also described here are training methods for training an analyte sensor to more accurately estimate an analyte concentration level on the basis of a received acoustic signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A photoacoustic method for estimating analyte concentration levels in a target, the method comprising: measuring, with an analyte monitor, an impedance of the target via electrical impedance spectroscopy; irradiating, with a light source of the analyte monitor, the target with light of a first wavelength; obtaining, with a sensor of the analyte monitor, a primary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the first wavelength; and estimating, with the analyte monitor, an analyte concentration level in the target based on both of the obtained primary acoustic signal and the measured impedance of the target.
2. The photoacoustic method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, using a heating element of the analyte monitor, heat to the target; measuring, with a thermal sensor of the analyte monitor, a thermal response of the target to the applied heat, wherein the step of estimating the analyte concentration level comprises estimating the analyte concentration level in the target based additionally on the measured thermal response.
3. The photoacoustic method of claim 2, further comprising: irradiating, with the light source, the target with light of a second wavelength, different than the first wavelength; obtaining, with the sensor, a secondary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the second wavelength; estimating, with the analyte sensor on the basis of the obtained secondary acoustic signal, a background absorption level of light, wherein estimating, with the analyte sensor, the analyte concentration level in the target comprises estimating the analyte concentration level additionally based on the estimated background absorption level of light.
4. The photoacoustic method of claim 1, further comprising: irradiating, with the light source, the target with light of a second wavelength, different than the first wavelength; obtaining, with the sensor, a secondary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the second wavelength; determining, with the analyte sensor on the basis of the obtained second acoustic signal, an estimated background absorption level of light, wherein estimating, with the analyte sensor, the analyte concentration level in the target comprises estimating the analyte concentration level additionally based on the estimated background absorption level of light.
5. A photoacoustic method for estimating analyte concentration levels in a target, the method comprising: applying, using a heating element of an analyte sensor, heat to the target; measuring, with a thermal sensor of the analyte sensor, a thermal response of the target to the applied heat; irradiating, with a light source of the analyte sensor, the target with light of a first wavelength; obtaining, with a sensor of the analyte sensor, a primary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the first wavelength; and estimating, with the analyte sensor, an analyte concentration level in the target based on both of the obtained primary acoustic signal and the measured thermal response.
6. The photoacoustic method of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: irradiating, with the light source, the target with light of a second wavelength, different than the first wavelength; obtaining, with the sensor, a secondary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the second wavelength; determining, with the analyte sensor on the basis of the obtained secondary acoustic signal, an estimated background absorption level of light, wherein estimating the analyte concentration level in the target comprises estimating an analyte concentration level in the target based also on the estimated background absorption level of light.
7. A photoacoustic method for estimating analyte concentration levels in a target, the method comprising: irradiating the target with light of a first wavelength; obtaining, with a sensor, a primary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the first wavelength; irradiating the target with light of a second wavelength; obtaining, with a sensor, a secondary acoustic signal generated by the target in response to the irradiation of the target with light of the second wavelength; determining, on the basis of the obtained secondary acoustic signal, an estimated background absorption level of light; and estimating an analyte concentration level in the target based on both of the obtained primary acoustic signal and the estimated background absorption level of light.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the impedance of the target is measured non-invasively using first and second electrodes, the first and second electrodes being positioned to be in direct or indirect contact with a surface of the target.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein a hydrogel pad is disposed on the surface of each of the first and second electrodes, the hydrogel pad configured to directly contact the surface of the target.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the electrodes are spaced apart by a distance of from 0.1 cm to 5 cm.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the irradiation of the target with the light of the first wavelength occurs at a different time to the irradiation of the target with the light of the second wavelength.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the irradiation of the target with the light of the first wavelength and the light of the second wavelength is performed simultaneously, by pulsing the light of the first wavelength with a first pulse frequency and, at the same time, pulsing the light of the second wavelength with a second pulse frequency, the first pulse frequency being different to the second pulse frequency.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the first wavelength is selected so as to have a relatively stronger interaction with the analyte as compared to the interaction of the second wavelength with the analyte.
14. The method of claim 7, wherein the first wavelength has a value from around 8,700 nm to around 10,000 nm.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the first wavelength has a value from around 2,000 nm to around 2,500 nm.
16. The method of claim 7, wherein the first wavelength is variable.
17. The method of claim 7, wherein the second wavelength is variable.
18. The method of claim 5, wherein the measured thermal response is thermal conductivity.
19. The method of claim 5, wherein a thermistor comprises both the heating element and the thermal sensor.
20. The method of claim 5, wherein the measured thermal response is specific heat capacity
</claims>
</document>
