<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FOX, JEREMY R.
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
Silverstein, Zachary A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74038567
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATED RESPONSE USING ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) BASED ON BIOMETRIC DATA
</title>

<abstract>
An artificial intelligence-based method includes calculating, by a wearable device, a biometric index based on a plurality of biometric indicators associated with a user of the wearable device, based on the biometric index exceeding a threshold, identifying a change in a context of the user, determining whether the calculated biometric index is associated with the change in the context, based on the calculated biometric index being associated with the change, searching for an Internet of Things device available within the context, transmitting a notification to the Internet of Things device requesting assistance to the user, and in response to transmitting the notification, measuring a change in the biometric index.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An artificial intelligence-based method comprising: calculating, by a wearable device, a biometric index based on a plurality of biometric indicators associated with a user of the wearable device; based on the biometric index exceeding a threshold, identifying, by the wearable device, a change in a context of the user; determining, by the wearable device, whether the calculated biometric index is associated with the change in the context; based on the calculated biometric index being associated with the change, searching, by the wearable device, for an Internet of Things device available within the context; transmitting, by the wearable device, a notification to the Internet of Things device requesting assistance to the user; and in response to transmitting the notification, measuring a change in the biometric index.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the biometric intensity index further comprises: capturing, by the wearable device, the plurality of biometric indicators, the plurality of biometric indicators are associated to physiological and behavioral characteristics corresponding to an emotional state of the user; determining, by the wearable device, the biometric index by calculating an overall score based on the captured plurality of biometric indicators; and comparing, by the wearable device, the determined biometric index with a previously obtained baseline for the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the change in the context of the user comprises: receiving, by the wearable device, information regarding the change in the context from surrounding Internet of Things devices.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the biometric index is associated with the change in the context comprises: identifying an action performed by the user in response to the change; and matching a history of previous actions performed by the user in response to a similar situation.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: matching a history of previous actions performed by the user that had an ameliorative effect on the biometric index.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on machine learning techniques, predicting a fear-inducing event specific to the user based on a historical data of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on an Internet of Things device not being available within the context, selecting, by the wearable device, positive and reassuring information regarding the change in the context; and delivering, by the wearable device, the positive and reassuring information to the user.
8. An artificial intelligence-based computer system comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, wherein the computer system is capable of performing a method comprising: calculating, by a wearable device, a biometric index based on a plurality of biometric indicators associated with a user of the wearable device; based on the biometric index exceeding a threshold, identifying, by the wearable device, a change in a context of the user; determining, by the wearable device, whether the calculated biometric index is associated with the change in the context; based on the calculated biometric index being associated with the change, searching, by the wearable device, for an Internet of Things device available within the context; transmitting, by the wearable device, a notification to the Internet of Things device requesting assistance to the user; and in response to transmitting the notification, measuring a change in the biometric index.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein determining the biometric intensity index further comprises: capturing, by the wearable device, the plurality of biometric indicators, the plurality of biometric indicators are associated to physiological and behavioral characteristics corresponding to an emotional state of the user; determining, by the wearable device, the biometric index by calculating an overall score based on the captured plurality of biometric indicators; and comparing, by the wearable device, the determined biometric index with a previously obtained baseline for the user.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein identifying the change in the context of the user comprises: receiving, by the wearable device, information regarding the change in the context from surrounding Internet of Things devices.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein determining whether the biometric index is associated with the change in the context comprises: identifying an action performed by the user in response to the change; and matching a history of previous actions performed by the user in response to a similar situation.
12. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: matching a history of previous actions performed by the user that had an ameliorative effect on the biometric index.
13. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: based on machine learning techniques, predicting a fear-inducing event specific to the user based on a historical data of the user.
14. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising: based on an Internet of Things device not being available within the context, selecting, by the wearable device, positive and reassuring information regarding the change in the context; and delivering, by the wearable device, the positive and reassuring information to the user.
15. An artificial intelligence-based computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to perform a method comprising: calculating, by a wearable device, a biometric index based on a plurality of biometric indicators associated with a user of the wearable device; based on the biometric index exceeding a threshold, identifying, by the wearable device, a change in a context of the user; determining, by the wearable device, whether the calculated biometric index is associated with the change in the context; based on the calculated biometric index being associated with the change, searching, by the wearable device, for an Internet of Things device available within the context; transmitting, by the wearable device, a notification to the Internet of Things device requesting assistance to the user; and in response to transmitting the notification, measuring a change in the biometric index.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein determining the biometric intensity index further comprises: capturing, by the wearable device, the plurality of biometric indicators, the plurality of biometric indicators are associated to physiological and behavioral characteristics corresponding to an emotional state of the user; determining, by the wearable device, the biometric index by calculating an overall score based on the captured plurality of biometric indicators; and comparing, by the wearable device, the determined biometric index with a previously obtained baseline for the user.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein identifying the change in the context of the user comprises: receiving, by the wearable device, information regarding the change in the context from surrounding Internet of Things devices.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein determining whether the biometric index is associated with the change in the context comprises: identifying an action performed by the user in response to the change; and matching a history of previous actions performed by the user in response to a similar situation.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: matching a history of previous actions performed by the user that had an ameliorative effect on the biometric index; and based on machine learning techniques, predicting a fear-inducing event specific to the user based on a historical data of the user.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising: based on an Internet of Things device not being available within the context, selecting, by the wearable device, positive and reassuring information regarding the change in the context; and delivering, by the wearable device, the positive and reassuring information to the user.
</claims>
</document>
