<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOOX
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUDECEK, JANEK
Dax, Victoria Magdalena
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039124
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC COLLISION CHECKING
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for generating trajectories and drivable areas for navigating a vehicle in an environment are discussed herein. The techniques can include receiving a trajectory representing an initial trajectory for a vehicle, such as an autonomous vehicle, to traverse the environment in a drivable area. A location can be determined along the trajectory. A cost associated with the location can determined and can be evaluated with respect to a cost threshold. Further, the techniques can include determining, based at least in part on the cost meeting or exceeding the cost threshold, an action associated with the location, and controlling the autonomous vehicle to traverse the environment based at least in part on the action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a vehicle trajectory associated with an autonomous vehicle traversing an environment; receiving sensor data from a sensor associated with the autonomous vehicle; determining an object represented in the sensor data; determining a drivable area on which the autonomous vehicle is to navigate; determining a location associated with a portion of the vehicle trajectory; determining, based at least in part on the location, the drivable area, and a width associated with the autonomous vehicle, a cost; determining, based at least in part on the cost, an action of the autonomous vehicle associated with the location; and controlling the autonomous vehicle based at least in part on the action.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the action is a stop action that, when performed by the autonomous vehicle, causes the autonomous vehicle to stop within a threshold distance to the location.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the cost is based at least in part on a first width of the drivable area at the location and a second width of the autonomous vehicle.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the action is associated with a first time, the operations further comprising: determining an object trajectory associated with the object, the object trajectory associated with increasing a distance between the object and the location; wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle comprises refraining from performing the action based at least in part on determining the object trajectory.
5. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: wherein determining the cost is further based at least in part on one or more of an acceleration capability of the autonomous vehicle or a turning capability of the autonomous vehicle.
6. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: determining that the object is a dynamic object; wherein the action is a follow action that, when performed by the autonomous vehicle, causes the autonomous vehicle to follow the object within a threshold distance.
7. A method comprising: receiving a trajectory associated with a vehicle traversing an environment; receiving sensor data from a sensor associated with the vehicle; determining a drivable area; determining a location associated with the trajectory; determining, based at least in part on the trajectory and the drivable area, a cost associated with the location; determining an action of the vehicle associated with the location; and controlling, based at least in part on the action, the vehicle to traverse the environment.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the cost is based at least in part on a first width of the drivable area at the location and a second width of the vehicle.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining that the cost meets or exceeds a cost threshold, wherein the action is a stop action that, when performed by the vehicle, causes the vehicle to stop within a second threshold distance to the location.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the cost is based at least in part on a width of the drivable area at the location and a width of the vehicle.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; and determining an object trajectory associated with the object, the object trajectory associated with increasing a distance between the object and the location, wherein the action comprises continuing along the trajectory.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; and determining an object type associated with the object; wherein determining the cost is further based at least in part on the object type.
13. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; and determining that the object is a dynamic object; wherein the action is a follow action that, when performed by the vehicle, causes the vehicle to follow the object within a second threshold distance.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a processor, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a trajectory associated with a vehicle traversing an environment; receiving sensor data from a sensor associated with the vehicle; determining an area; determining a location associated with a portion of the trajectory; determining, based at least in part on the trajectory, a cost associated with the location; determining an action of the vehicle associated with the location; and controlling, based at least in part on the action, the vehicle to traverse the environment.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein a first boundary of the area is associated with a first cost function, and wherein a second boundary of the area is associated with a second cost function different from the first cost function.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, the operations further comprising determining the cost meets or exceeds a threshold cost, and wherein the action is a stop action that, when performed by the vehicle, causes the vehicle to stop within a second distance to the location.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the cost is based at least in part on a first width of the area at the location and a second width of the vehicle.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; and determining an object trajectory associated with the object, the object trajectory associated with increasing a distance between the object and the location, wherein the action comprises continuing along the trajectory.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; determining an object type associated with the object; determining a first pose associated with the vehicle; and determining a second pose associated with the object, wherein a capability of the vehicle to traverse the location is based at least in part on the first pose, wherein the area is based at least in part on the second pose, and wherein determining the cost is further based at least in part on the object type, the capability of the vehicle, and the area.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 14, the operations further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, an object in the environment; determining that the object is a dynamic object; wherein the action is a follow action that, when performed by the vehicle, causes the vehicle to follow the object within a second threshold distance.
</claims>
</document>
