<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06T11/00,G06T7/00,G16H30/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DHOLAKIA, JIGNESH
MANICKAM, KAVITHA
PRASAD, RAGHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71097975
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DEEP LEARNING BASED AUTOMATED SPINE REGISTRATION AND LABEL PROPAGATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided for whole-body spine labeling. In one embodiment, a method comprises acquiring a non-functional image volume of a spine, acquiring a functional image volume of the spine, automatically labeling the non-functional image volume with spine labels, automatically correcting the geometric misalignments and registering the functional image volume, and propagating the spine labels to the functional image volume. In this way, the anatomical details of non-functional imaging volumes may be leveraged to improve clinical diagnoses based on functional imaging, such as diffusion weighted imaging (DWI).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for magnetic resonance imaging, comprising: automatically labeling a non-functional whole-body image volume of a spine with spine labels; automatically registering a functional whole-body image volume of the spine to the non-functional whole-body image volume; and propagating the spine labels to the registered functional whole-body image volume.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically labeling the non-functional whole-body image volume comprises inputting the non-functional whole-body image volume into a first trained neural network, wherein the first trained neural network automatically segments and labels the non-functional whole-body image volume.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically registering the functional whole-body image volume comprises inputting the functional whole-body image volume and the non-functional whole-body image volume to a second trained neural network, wherein the second trained neural network automatically corrects geometric mismatch or misalignments in a spine region of the functional whole-body image volume by learning region based geometric properties and positions of the spine in the non-functional whole-body image volume.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein propagating the spine labels to the registered functional whole-body image volume comprises inputting the non-functional whole-body image volume with the spine labels and the registered functional whole-body image volume into a third trained neural network, wherein the third trained neural network maps the spine labels from the non-functional whole-body image volume to the registered functional whole-body image volume.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising propagating the spine labels from the registered functional whole-body image volume to one or more multiplanar reformatted views of the registered functional whole-body image volume.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising fusing the non-functional whole-body image volume and the functional whole-body image volume to generate a fused image volume, wherein the fused image volume comprises the non-functional whole-body image volume with the spine labels overlaid on the registered functional whole-body image volume.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the non-functional whole-body image volume depicts anatomical structure of the spine and the functional whole-body image volume depicts neuronal or diffusivity function of the spine.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the functional whole-body image volume comprises a diffusion-weighted image volume, PET image volume, or cross-modality image volume.
9. A method, comprising: geometrically correcting, with a first trained neural network, a position of a spine in a functional whole-body MR image volume of the spine to generate a corrected functional image volume; propagating, with a second trained neural network, labels of the spine from a non-functional whole-body MR image volume of the spine to the corrected functional image volume; and displaying a view of the corrected functional image volume with the labels of the spine overlaid on the view.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein geometrically correcting the position of the spine in the functional whole-body MR image volume comprises inputting the non-functional whole-body MR image volume and the functional whole-body MR image volume into the first trained neural network, wherein the first trained neural network learns a position and orientation of the spine in the non-functional whole-body MR image volume and geometrically corrects the position and/or orientation of the spine in the functional whole-body MR image volume according to the position and/or orientation of the spine in the non-functional whole-body MR image volume.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising automatically generating the labels of the spine in the non-functional whole-body MR image volume with a third trained neural network.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the functional whole-body MR image volume comprises a plurality of functional whole-body MR image volumes acquired via multiple imaging stations, wherein geometrically correcting the position or orientation of the spine in the functional whole-body MR image volume comprises geometrically correcting misalignments or mismatches of the spine between the plurality of functional whole-body MR image volumes.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the corrected functional image volume comprises the plurality of functional whole-body MR image volumes stitched and registered into a single functional whole-body MR image volume with the geometrical corrections.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the non-functional whole-body MR image volume comprises a plurality of non-functional whole-body MR image volumes acquired via multiple imaging stations, and wherein functional whole-body MR image volumes and non-functional whole-body MR image volumes acquired via corresponding imaging stations are paired as input to the first trained neural network.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising fusing the non-functional whole-body MR image volume and the functional whole-body MR image volume, and displaying the fusion of the non-functional whole-body MR image volume and the functional whole-body MR image volume with the labels of the spine overlaid thereon.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the view comprises an axial view, and further comprising propagating the labels from the view of the corrected functional image volume to multiplanar reformatted views including one or more of a sagittal view, a coronal view, and an oblique view.
17. A system for automatically labeling a functional spine image, comprising: a first deep neural network configured to register a functional spine image by geometrically correcting the functional spine image according to a position of a spine in a non-functional spine image; and a second deep neural network configured to automatically propagate spine labels from the non-functional spine image to the geometrically corrected and registered functional spine image.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising a third deep neural network configured to automatically generate the spine labels for the non-functional spine image.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the functional spine image comprises a plurality of functional spine images acquired via multiple stations, and wherein the first deep neural network is configured to stitch and register the plurality of functional spine images by geometrically correcting misalignments of the spine between the plurality of functional spine images.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the spine labels indicate vertebral components of the spine.
</claims>
</document>
