<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
HUANG, YEXIN
PATCHIRAJAN, KARPAGA GANESH
DOUTHIT, RONNIE DOUGLAS
MATTEY, AMAR J.
MOHAPATRA, DEEPANKAR
SHAMANNA, RAM MOHAN
SUBRAMANIAN, TRICHUR SHIVARAMAKRISHNAN
DURAISAMI, CHINNADURAI
REDDY, CHIRANJEEV JAGANNADHA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, YEXIN
PATCHIRAJAN, KARPAGA GANESH
DOUTHIT, RONNIE DOUGLAS
MATTEY, AMAR J.
MOHAPATRA, DEEPANKAR
SHAMANNA, RAM MOHAN
SUBRAMANIAN, TRICHUR SHIVARAMAKRISHNAN
DURAISAMI, CHINNADURAI
REDDY, CHIRANJEEV JAGANNADHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228850
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATED DOCUMENT EXTRACTION AND CLASSIFICATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method including receiving a source file containing a plurality of documents which, to a computer, initially are indistinguishable from each other. A first classification stage is applied to the source file using a convolutional neural network image classification to identify source documents in the multitude of documents and to produce a partially parsed file having a multitude of identified source documents. The partially parsed file includes sub-images corresponding to the plurality of identified source documents. A second classification stage, including a natural language processing artificial intelligence, is applied to sets of text in bounding boxes of the sub-images, to classify each of the multitude of identified source documents as a corresponding sub-type of document. Each of the sets of text corresponding to one of the sub-images. A parsed file having a multitude of identified sub-types of documents is produced. The parsed file is further computer processed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a source file containing a plurality of documents which, to a computer, initially are indistinguishable from each other; applying, by the computer, a first classification stage to the source file using a convolutional neural network image classification to identify source documents in the plurality of documents and to produce a partially parsed file having a plurality of identified source documents, the partially parsed file comprising sub-images corresponding to the plurality of identified source documents; applying, by the computer, a second classification stage, comprising a natural language processing artificial intelligence, to sets of text in bounding boxes of the sub-images, to classify each of the plurality of identified source documents as a corresponding sub-type of document, each of the sets of text corresponding to one of the sub-images, and to produce a parsed file having a plurality of identified sub-types of documents; and using the parsed file for further computer processing.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the parsed file to a computer processing service.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: processing, by the computer processing service, each corresponding sub-type of document according to types of the sets of text contained in the sub-images.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after applying the first classification stage, but before applying the second classification stage, applying an optical character recognition algorithm to each of the sub-images to produce the plurality of sets of text.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein using the parsed file comprises: transmitting the parsed file to a plurality of specialized tax preparation computer services.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: extracting form fields of each of the plurality of identified sub-types of documents based on the corresponding sub-type of document.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: exporting the form fields to corresponding ones of the different specialized tax preparation computer services.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: performing computerized tax preparation algorithms specific to individual tax entities using form fields corresponding to the individual tax entities.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein using comprises transmitting the parsed file to another algorithm executing on the computer.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the source file comprises one of an image and a portable document file.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying the bounding boxes around the sub-images.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein using parsed file comprises performing, by the computer, at least one of storing the parsed file on a non-transitory computer readable storage medium, displaying the parsed file, and transmitting the parsed file to another computer.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions for a computer to classify a document, the instructions, when executed by a computer processor, comprising: program code for receiving a source file containing a plurality of documents which, to a computer, initially are indistinguishable from each other; program code for applying a first classification stage to the source file using a vision-based convolutional neural network image classification to identify source documents in the plurality of documents, and to produce a partially parsed file having a plurality of identified source documents, the partially parsed file being composed of sub-images corresponding to the plurality of identified source documents; program code for applying a second classification stage, comprising a natural language processing artificial intelligence, to sets of text in bounding boxes of the sub-images, to classify each of the plurality of identified source documents as a corresponding sub-type of document, each of the sets of text corresponding to one of the sub-images, and to produce a parsed file having a plurality of identified sub-types of documents; and program code for using the parsed file for further computer processing.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further comprise: program code for, after applying the first classification stage, but before applying the second classification stage, applying an optical character recognition algorithm to each of the plurality of sub-images to produce the plurality of sets of text.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the program code for using the parsed file comprises: program code for transmitting the parsed file to a plurality of specialized tax preparation computer services.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the program code for applying the first classification stage further includes: program code for applying the bounding boxes around the plurality of sub-images.
17. A system comprising: a data storage device comprising a storage medium, the data storage device containing a plurality of source files, each of the plurality of source files having a corresponding plurality of source documents, each of the plurality of source documents having corresponding information; and a computer programmed with a multi-stage classifier comprising: a first classifier configured to identify each of the plurality of source documents as a corresponding plurality of sub-images by applying a vision-based convolutional neural network to each of the plurality of source files, each of the plurality of sub-images corresponding to one of the plurality of source documents, wherein the first classifier is thereby configured to produce a partially parsed file, and a second classifier configured to identify a plurality sub-types of documents by applying a natural language processing artificial intelligence process to the corresponding plurality of sub-images, wherein the second classifier is thereby configured to produce a parsed file having a plurality of identified sub-types of documents having corresponding sets of text, wherein the computer is further programmed with a computer processing service configured to further sort the sub-types of documents into different kinds of sub-types of documents, and then process the sets of text according to the different kinds of sub-types of documents.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising: an optical character recognition classifier configured to identify the sets of text in the plurality of sub-images.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the first classifier is further configured to apply bounding boxes around each of the plurality of sub-images.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein the plurality of source documents are tax forms, wherein sub-types of documents are specific tax forms, and wherein the kinds of sub-types of documents are groups of specific tax forms having identical sub-types.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the computer processing service is configured to automatically perform computerized tax preparation services on the sets of text.
22. The system of claim 17, wherein the computer processing service is further configured to perform at least one from a group consisting of storing the parsed file on a non-transitory computer readable storage medium, displaying the parsed file, and transmitting the parsed file to another computer.
</claims>
</document>
