<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/07,B60R1/12,B60R25/10,B60R25/102,B60R25/104,B60R25/20,B60R25/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOTONATION
FotoNation Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAHARIA, CORNELIU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle side view camera system with adjustable field of view
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle can include one or more movably mounted cameras that are able to move to adjust a viewing angle of the camera(s) relative to a body of the vehicle. The camera(s) may be movable by virtue of being coupled to a movable side mirror, such that movement of the side mirror changes a field of view of the camera coupled to the side mirror. For example, the side mirror can be rotated about a rotational axis between a first position in which a field of view of the camera is directed in a first direction (e.g. toward a ground proximate the vehicle), and a second position in which the field of view of the camera is directed in a second direction, different than the first direction (e.g., outward from the vehicle or toward a door of the vehicle).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle comprising: a body; a side mirror including a camera disposed on the side mirror; a hinge coupling the side mirror to the body, the hinge having a rotational axis about which the mirror is rotatable relative to the body; and a motor coupled to at least one of the body, the side mirror, or the hinge and configured to rotate the side mirror about the rotational axis between: a first position in which a field of view of the camera is directed in a first direction; and a second position in which the field of view of the camera is directed in a second direction, different than the first direction.
2. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the axis of rotation is non-vertical, such that rotation of the side mirror from the first position to the second position rotates an optical axis of the camera relative to a horizon.
3. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein in the first position an optical axis of the camera is oriented at an angle below a horizon, and in the second position the optical axis of the camera is oriented at an angle at or above the horizon.
4. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising: a controller communicatively coupled to the motor, the controller configured to rotate the side mirror from the first position to the second position at least partly in response to the vehicle being parked.
5. The vehicle according to claim 1, wherein the camera is fixed against movement relative to the side mirror.
6. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the vehicle to perform operations including: receiving, from the camera and while the mirror is in the second position, image data; determining, based at least in part on the image data, that a person is within a threshold distance of the vehicle; and storing the image data based at least in part on determining that the person is within the threshold distance of the vehicle.
7. The vehicle according to claim 6, wherein the operations further include: determining, from the image data, that the person is an authorized user of the vehicle; and unlocking a door of the vehicle based at least in part on determining that the person is the authorized user of the vehicle.
8. The vehicle according to claim 6, wherein the operations further include: determining, based at least in part on the image data, that the person is not an authorized user of the vehicle; determining, based on at least one of the image data or other sensor data, that the person is contacting the vehicle; and at least one of: sending a notification to a device associated with an authorized user of the vehicle; or causing output of an alert via at least one of an audio output device or a visual output device of the vehicle.
9. The vehicle according to claim 1, further comprising a sensor coupled to the side mirror or the body, the sensor comprising at least one of: another camera, an ultrasonic sensor, a proximity sensor, a motion sensor, a displacement sensor, a pressure sensor, a microphone, or a contact sensor.
10. The vehicle according to claim 9, further comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed, cause the vehicle to perform operations including: receiving, from the sensor, sensor data indicating at least one of presence or motion of an object proximate the vehicle; and based at least in part on receiving the sensor data while the side mirror is in the second position, at least one of: causing the camera to capture image data; or storing image data captured by the camera.
11. A vehicle side mirror comprising: a mirror housing shaped to accommodate a reflective surface; a camera coupled to the mirror housing or the reflective surface; an attachment arm, the attachment arm including: a first end coupled to the mirror housing; a second end configured to attach the mirror housing to a vehicle; and a hinge coupling the first end to the second end, the hinge having a rotational axis about which the mirror housing is rotatable; and a motor coupled to at least one of the mirror housing, the attachment arm, or the hinge and configured to rotate the mirror housing about the rotational axis between: a first position in which an optical axis of the camera is directed at a first angle relative to the attachment arm, and a second position in which the optical axis of the camera is directed at a second angle relative to the attachment arm, the second angle being different than the first angle.
12. The vehicle side mirror according to claim 11, wherein the vehicle side mirror further comprises one or more actuators configured to at least one of pan or tilt the camera relative to the mirror housing.
13. The vehicle side mirror according to claim 11, wherein the hinge is oriented at an angle such that a top portion of the hinge is closer to the second end of the attachment arm than a bottom portion of the hinge.
14. A method comprising: determining that a vehicle is parked; rotating, based at least in part on determining that the vehicle is parked, a side mirror of the vehicle which includes a camera between: a first position in which a field of view of the camera is directed at a first angle relative to a horizon, and a second position in which the field of view of the camera is directed at a second angle, different than the first angle, relative to the horizon; capturing, via the camera, image data while the side mirror is in the second position; determining, from the image data, that an object represented in the image data is moving or is within a threshold distance of the vehicle; and storing the image data captured by the camera based at least in part on determining that the object represented in the image data is moving or is within the threshold distance of the vehicle.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein in the first position an optical axis of the camera is oriented at an angle below the horizon, and in the second position the optical axis of the camera is oriented at an angle at or above the horizon.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: transmitting an alert to an electronic device associated with an authorized user of the vehicle that that the object represented in the image data is moving or is within the threshold distance of the vehicle.
17. The method according to claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: determining from the image data that the object represented in the image data is an authorized user of the vehicle; and unlocking a door of the vehicle based at least in part on determining that the object is the authorized user of the vehicle.
18. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: determining from the image data that the object is a person that is not an authorized user of the vehicle; determining, from the image data or a sensor, that the person is contacting the vehicle; and causing the vehicle to activate a security system of the vehicle based at least in part on determining that the person is not an authorized user of the vehicle and that the person is contacting the vehicle.
19. The method according to claim 18, further comprising: sending a notification to an electronic device associated with the authorized user of the vehicle, the notification including at least one of: a portion of the image data of the person; a selectable control to deactivate the security system; or a selectable control to initiate call to a security service or law enforcement.
20. The method according to claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: detecting movement of the object; and moving the camera to maintain the object within the field of view of the camera, wherein moving the camera comprises at least one of: moving the side mirror relative to the vehicle; or moving the camera relative to the side mirror.
</claims>
</document>
