<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L25/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENDER, MICHAEL
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
KEEN, MARTIN G.
TRIM, CRAIG M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73650094
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZED INTERACTIVE COMMUNICATIONS TIMING
</title>

<abstract>
In an approach to optimized interactive communications timing from computing devices, a set of system defaults is received. A verbal communications for an intended recipient is received. An activity data for the intended recipient is received. A criticality score of the verbal communication is determined based on the set of system defaults. An availability score for the intended recipient is determined based on the set of system defaults and the activity data. An optimal time to initiate verbal communications with the intended recipient is determined wherein the optimal time to initiate verbal communications occurs when the criticality score exceeds the availability score. The verbal communication for the intended recipient is initiated at the optimal time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for optimizing interactive communications with a computing device, the computer-implemented method comprising the steps of: receiving, by one or more computer processors, a set of system defaults; receiving, by one or more computer processors, a verbal communication for an intended recipient; receiving, by one or more computer processors, an activity data for the intended recipient from a one or more sources; determining, by one or more computer processors, a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults; determining, by one or more computer processors, an availability score for the intended recipient based on the set of system defaults and the activity data; determining, by one or more computer processors, an optimal time to initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient, wherein the optimal time to initiate the verbal communication occurs when the criticality score exceeds the availability score; and initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises: determining, by one or more computer processors, whether a rule prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time; and responsive to determining that the rule does not prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time, initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises: receiving, by one or more computer processors, a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determining, by one or more computer processors, an end of a current sentence of the ongoing conversation using natural language processing; and responsive to determining the end of the current sentence, initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises: receiving, by one or more computer processors, a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; modifying, by one or more computer processors, the verbal data for the ongoing conversation using a spreading activation label propagation algorithm to create a context data; modifying, by one or more computer processors, the context data using cosine similarity to create a similarity score; and responsive to the similarity score being greater than a threshold, initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises: receiving, by one or more computer processors, a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; receiving, by one or more computer processors, a biometric data for the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determining, by one or more computer processors, a stress level for the intended recipient based on the verbal data and the biometric data; and responsive to determining the stress level for the intended recipient being less than a threshold, initiating, by one or more computer processors, the communication with the intended recipient.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining, by one or more computer processors, a criticality score of the verbal communication comprises: receiving, by one or more computer processors, a historical level of activity for the intended recipient; and determining, by one or more computer processors, a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults and the historical level of activity.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising updating, by one or more computer processors, the historical level of activity for the intended recipient based on the activity data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: determining, by one or more computer processors, whether an override of the optimal time is in effect based on the set of system defaults; and responsive to the override of the optimal time is in effect, initiating, by one or more computer processors, the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
9. A computer program product for optimizing interactive communications with a computing device, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive a set of system defaults; program instructions to receive a verbal communication for an intended recipient; program instructions to receive an activity data for the intended recipient from a one or more sources; program instructions to determine a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults; program instructions to determine an availability score for the intended recipient based on the set of system defaults and the activity data; program instructions to determine an optimal time to initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient, wherein the optimal time to initiate the verbal communication occurs when the criticality score exceeds the availability score; and program instructions to initiate the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: determine whether a rule prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time; and responsive to determining that the rule does not prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time, initiate the verbal communication for the intended recipient.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determine an end of a current sentence of the ongoing conversation using natural language processing; and responsive to determining the end of the current sentence, initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; modify the verbal data for the ongoing conversation using a spreading activation label propagation algorithm to create a context data; modify the context data using cosine similarity to create a similarity score; and responsive to the similarity score being greater than a threshold, initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; receive a biometric data for the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determine a stress level for the intended recipient based on the verbal data and the biometric data; and responsive to determining the stress level for the intended recipient being less than a threshold, initiate the communication with the intended recipient.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein determining a criticality score of the verbal communication comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: receive a historical level of activity for the intended recipient; and determine a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults and the historical level of activity.
15. A computer system for optimizing interactive communications with a computing device, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive a set of system defaults; program instructions to receive a verbal communication for an intended recipient; program instructions to receive an activity data for the intended recipient from a one or more sources; program instructions to determine a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults; program instructions to determine an availability score for the intended recipient based on the set of system defaults and the activity data; program instructions to determine an optimal time to initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient, wherein the optimal time to initiate the verbal communication occurs when the criticality score exceeds the availability score; and program instructions to initiate the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, to: determine whether a rule prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time; and responsive to determining that the rule does not prohibits verbal communications at the optimal time, initiate the verbal communication for the intended recipient.
17. The computer system of claim 15, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determine an end of a current sentence of the ongoing conversation using natural language processing; and responsive to determining the end of the current sentence, initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; modify the verbal data for the ongoing conversation using a spreading activation label propagation algorithm to create a context data; modify the context data using cosine similarity to create a similarity score; and responsive to the similarity score being greater than a threshold, initiate the verbal communication with the intended recipient.
19. The computer system of claim 15, wherein initiating the verbal communication for the intended recipient at the optimal time comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, to: receive a verbal data for an ongoing conversation by the intended recipient from the one or more sources; receive a biometric data for the intended recipient from the one or more sources; determine a stress level for the intended recipient based on the verbal data and the biometric data; and responsive to determining the stress level for the intended recipient being less than a threshold, initiate the communication with the intended recipient.
20. The computer system of claim 15, wherein determining a criticality score of the verbal communication comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, to: receive a historical level of activity for the intended recipient; and determine a criticality score of the verbal communication based on the set of system defaults and the historical level of activity.
</claims>
</document>
