<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AVASARALA, RANJIT KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70849445
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RESPONDING TO A TERMINATION REASON IN AN ACCOUNTING RECORD
</title>

<abstract>
Technology to respond to a termination reason of an accounting record via an improved charging component is disclosed. The disclosed subject matter can be backwards compatible to support responding to a conventional SIP 'BYE' method and a conventional SIP 'CANCEL' method. Additionally, the disclosed subject matter can respond to other SIP methods, empty reason-headers, etc. In an aspect, a reason-header can be forced into an accounting record based on received session termination information. In an embodiment, the reason-header can be determined to satisfy a rule related to acceptable reason-headers. Where the rule is determined to be unsatisfied, a query can be generated toward a device that supported the now terminated communication, wherein a response to the query can comprise another reason-header that can be determined to satisfy the rule. The accounting record can be updated based on the other reason-header and employed in generating a charging data record that can alter corresponding billing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to a communication session being determined to have terminated, receiving a reason-header corresponding to a cause of the termination of the communication session; determining whether the reason-header comprises a valid indicator of the cause of the termination of the communication session; in response to the reason-header being determined not to comprise the valid indicator, determining the valid indicator of the cause the termination of the communication session; and enabling a charging control function to access the valid indicator.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining the valid indicator comprises querying a session initiation protocol device corresponding to the communication session that was terminated according to the termination.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the querying comprises generating an error message towards the session initiation protocol device.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining the valid indicator comprises determining the valid indicator is a 4xx message.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the valid indicator is a '403 Forbidden' indicator.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining the valid indicator comprises determining the valid indicator is a 5xx message.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the cause of the termination of the communication session is caused by a process other than a session initiation protocol 'BYE' process.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the cause of the termination of the communication session is caused by a process other than a session initiation protocol 'CANCEL' process.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the reason-header comprises a reason indicator that is an invalid reason indicator.
10. The device of claim 9 wherein the invalid reason indicator is invalid as a result of the reason indicator not being a recognized valid reason indicator by the device.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the reason-header comprises an empty reason indicator.
12. A method, comprising: receiving, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, session termination information for a communication session; in response to determining, by the system, that a session termination reason is not indicated in an accounting record, populating a session termination field of the accounting record with an indication of the session termination reason; and generating, by the system, a charging data record based on the accounting record, wherein the charging data record is employed in adapting billing for the communication session.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising, determining, by the system, that the session termination reason is a session initiation protocol response code that does not correspond to a 'BYE' method.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising, determining, by the system, that the session termination reason is a session initiation protocol response code that does not correspond to a 'CANCEL' method.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising, in response to determining that the session termination reason is a first session initiation protocol response code that does not satisfy a rule related to an allowable session initiation protocol response code, generating, by the system, a query directed to a device that supported the communication session, wherein a response to the query comprises a second session initiation protocol response code.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising, updating, by the system, the accounting record to replace the first session initiation protocol response code with the second session initiation protocol response code, resulting in an updated accounting record, and wherein the generating the charging data record is based on an updated accounting record, and.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the updating the accounting record is performed in response to determining, by the system, that the second session initiation protocol response code satisfies the rule related to the allowable session initiation protocol response code.
18. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving session termination information for a communication session; in response to determining that a session termination reason is not indicated in an accounting record, populating a session termination field of the accounting record with an indication of the session termination reason; in response to determining that the session termination reason comprises a first session initiation protocol response code that does not satisfy a rule related to an allowable session initiation protocol response code, generating a query directed to a device that supported the communication session prior to termination of the communication session, wherein a response to the query comprises a second session initiation protocol response code; updating the indication of the session termination reason of the accounting record by replacing the first session initiation protocol response code with the second session initiation protocol response code, resulting in an updated accounting record; and generating a charging data record based on the updated accounting record, wherein the charging data record is employed in adapting billing for the communication session.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the updating the indication of the session termination reason is in response to determining that the second session initiation protocol response code satisfies the rule related to the allowable session initiation protocol response code.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the first session initiation protocol response code does not correspond to one of a group of session initiation protocol response codes, and wherein the group of session initiation protocol response codes comprises a 'BYE' session initiation protocol response code and a 'CANCEL' session initiation protocol response code.
</claims>
</document>
